Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14703
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1575-ZA)
JUNE 21, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of March 1, 1995)
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZK)
US$1.00 = K 660
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)  =  0.305 meters (m)
I mile (mile)  =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)  =  2.590 square kilometers (kn2)
I ton (t)  =  0.907 metric tons (m ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfD)B              =   African Development Bank
BOD                =   Board of Directors
CIDA               =   Canadian International Development Agency
FRP                =   Fourth Railway Project in Zambia
GOZ                =   Government of Zambia
GDP                =   Gross Domestic Product
ICR                =   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                =   International Development Association
IMF                =   International Monetary Fund
KfW                =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiedraufbau
MOF                =   Ministry of Finance
MOCT               -   Ministry of Communications & Transport
PCR                =   Project Completion Report
ROCE               =   Return on Capital Employed
RRP                =   Railways Restructuring Project
SAR                =   Staff Appraisal Report
SATCC              -   Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
SDR                =   Standard Drawing Right
SIDA               =   Swedish International Development Agency
TDP                =   Ten-year Development Plan
TKM                =   Tonne Kilometers
TRP                =   Third Railway Project
USAID              =   United States Agency for International Development
ZIMCO              =   Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Ltd,
ZK                 =   Zambian Kwacha
ZR                 =   Zambia Railways



ZAMBIA                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1575-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.i
Project Objectives ....................................................... ii
Implementation Experience and Results ..........................           ............................. ii
Summary of Findings, Future Operations,
and Key Lessons learned .......................................................  iii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Objectives .................................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................4
D. Project Sustainability ..................................................5
E.  Bank Performance ..................................................6
F.  Borrower's Performance ..................................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome ..................................................9
H. Future Operation .................................................                                9
1.  Key Lessons Learned ............................................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table   1.  Summary of Assessments
Table   2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table   3.  Project Timetable
Table   4.   Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table   5 &  6 Key Indicators for Project Operation and Implementation
Table   7.   Studies Included in Project
Table   8A. Project cost
Table   8B. Project Financing
Table   9.   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table   10.  Status of Legal Covenants
Table   11.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table   12. Bank Resources
Table   13. Bank Resources-Missions
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Map IBRD No. 26792
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



I



ZAMBIA
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1575-ZA)
Preface
1.      This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Railway Project
(FRP) in Zambia, for which credit 1575-ZA in the amount of SDR 20.5 million was approved on
March 28, 1985 and made effective on December 17, 1985. The credit was closed on June 30,
1994, after five extensions of the original closing date of June 30, 1989.
2.      The project was formally revised in 1993, at which time SDR 8 million was canceled.
Final disbursement took place on October 31, 1994, at which time a balance of SDR 4.4 million
was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by African Development Bank (AfDB),
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Belgian Government, Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), and Swedish Intemational Development Authority (SIDA). Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), Japan, and India also provided some financing in the
later stages of the project.
3.      The ICR was prepared by Yash Pal Kedia, Task Manager, and Agnieszka Grudzinska,
Private Sector Development Specialist, from the Energy and Infrastructure Division of the
Southern Africa Department and reviewed by Jacomina de Regt, Acting Operations Adviser, and
Jeffrey Racki, Division Chief of the Energy and Infrastructure Division.
4.      Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in November
1994. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by preparing their own evaluation of the project, and contributing views reflected in the
mission's aide-memoire.



f



ZAMBIA
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1575-ZA)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Prior to the Fourth Railway Project (FRP), the Bank Group had extended assistance to six
projects in the transport sector, which included three railways and three highways projects. In
chronological order, the projects were: (i) Loan 74-ZA of US$14.0 million for the railways,
approved in 1953; (ii) Loan 197-ZA of US$9.5 million for the railways, approved in 1958; (iii)
Loan 469-ZA of US$17.5 million for the highways, approved in 1966; (iv) Loan 563-ZA of
US$10.7 million for the highways, approved in 1968; (v) Loan 563-ZA of US$22.5 million for the
highways, approved in 1978; and (vi) Loan/Credit 973-ZA of US$40.0 million for the railways,
approved in 1980 (Table 2).
2.    The first two railway projects concentrated on provision of workshop equipment, rolling
stock, and track improvements and were executed satisfactorily. The Third Railway Project
(TRP), focused additionally on improvement of communications and upgrading of skills.
According to the Project Completion Report (PCR), except for the financial rate of retum, the
objectives of TRP were largely achieved. The PCR blamed the non-achievement of the financial
objective on economic recession and obviously ignored key factors such as overcapitalization,
overstaffing, and inadequate management.
3.    During FRP preparation and appraisal, Zambia Railways (ZR)'s management and the
Bank staff viewed the railways' inability to cope with expected traffic volumes as the main
performance constraint. However, major differences in the perceived dimension of the problem and
strategies to address it surfaced already during project appraisal. Whereas ZR management
expected very large traffic volume increases and wanted to add new capacity, the Bank staff
expected the traffic increases to be modest and viewed a strategy of increased efficiency and
utilization of existing resources as more appropriate. In the end, ZR's management agreed to
proceed with the project as designed by Bank staff but the lack of ownership continued to adversely
affect implementation (para 2).
4.    During the 10 years between FRP's approval in March 1985 and its closure in June 1994,
ZR's perfomiance suffered serious setbacks due to two major developments. The first, largely
exogenous to ZR, was Zambia's abandonment of the IMF-led structural adjustment program,
which was followed by the suspension in 1987 of IDA's disbursements to Zambia, including FRP.
Disbursements to Zambia were resumed in 1991. However, changes in the macro environment
coupled with a greater awareness of the deficiencies in ZR's operations, resulted in disbursements
under the FRP being suspended for a longer period. The disbursements under FRP resumed in
1993, after ZR management had recognized the internal constraints to improved performance and
demonstrated its commitment to the restructuring of ZR by developing comprehensive restructuring
plans. The second development was the liberalization of the Zambian economy, and the consequent
increase in competition from truckers from 1990 onwards. As a result of the increased competition
in the transport sector and some deterioration in the overall economic performance, railway traffic
volumes dropped from 1,444 million ton-kilometer (tkm) in 1990 to 653 million tkm in 1994
(paras 1 7,19).



- ii -
Project Objectives
5.     FRP's central objective was to enhance ZR's effective capacity primarily through
rehabilitation of existing assets and their improved utilization in order to enable the railways to
fulfill its function of transporting domestic and external freight traffic at minimum economic cost.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) anticipated significant benefits accruing to the country from
ZR's increased efficiency and consequent avoidance of traffic diversion to more costly road
transport. The main objective was, and still is, important for the transport sector and the Zanbian
economy. The approach to improve the efficiency with which the existing assets were utilized
rather than finance capacity expansion, reflected good economic principles and sound judgment of
potential traffic development (para 1).
6.    In retrospect, it is apparent that while the initial approach of focusing on enhancing
efficiency rather than expanding the resources was sound, the incremental approach taken was
probably too timid, and a more radical initiative was required. However, given the reluctance with
which ZR management embraced even this modest approach, it probably would not have been
possible to adopt a program of more fundamental change. Nevertheless, even in the context of the
more limited initial reforms, the operational targets designed to support the objectives had a
number of shortcomings. The targets, as defined, were difficult to achieve and monitor and tended
to encourage inefficient behavior. More specifically: (i) no comprehensive financial target was
specified; (ii) the operational targets were not adequately defined; (iii) management actions
necessary to achieve the objective were not elaborated; and (iv) the targets did not appear to have
been completely accepted and owned by ZR's management (paras 3-7).
7.     At the reactivation of the project in 1993, the project strategy was changed from
incremental improvements in operational efficiency of the existing structure to a fundamental
restructuring of ZR. The choice not to pursue formal reappraisal was instrumental in maintaining
an uninterrupted and intensive dialogue with the implementing agency at a critical time, and
contributed to an internally-driven restructuring effort. However, it also resulted in yet another lost
opportunity to involve (GOZ) in a more intensive manner in project implementation (para 8).
Implementation Experience and Results
8.     The original project objectives were not achieved due to the following: (i) shortcomings in
project design mentioned above, most notably lack of ownership of project objective; (ii) initial
project delays; (iii) the suspension of IDA disbursements; (iv) lack of specific mechanism to adjust
for the withdrawal of one or more donors; (v) deterioration in ZR's business environment and its
inability to adapt to the change; (vi) lack of a broader transport policy framework; and (vii) a
general lack of involvement by GOZ (section C).
9.     The Bank's performance was satisfactory during identification, deficient during
preparation and appraisal, and highly satisfactory during supervision. The view that the focus
should be improved operational efficiency rather than capital investments was highly appropriate.
In this sense, the identification was well conceived. The lack of ZR's commitment to this approach
inhibited the preparation and appraisal performance with appraisal being further weakened by
relatively unfocused performance targets being set. Supervision in the early years of the project
was marred by the suspension of disbursements. Once the project recommenced, supervision was
intensive and, given the challenge posed by incremental improvements in a flawed project design,
relatively effective. The borrower' performance reflects the lack of underlying agreement on the
strategy to achieve the project objective and has been unsatisfactory almost throughout the project



- iii -
period. The performance was particularly deficient during the 1987-1991 period, when ZR
resorted to heavy recruitment of staff and procurement of physical assets, as a result of which its
financial position became exceedingly precarious (sections E-F).
10.   In spite of cancellation of about US$8 million of the IDA Credit, the actual project cost
exceeded the original estimates by about US$68 million (or about 80% of the original project cost),
mainly on account of additional capital expenditures of about US$76 million for new locomotives,
wagons, and spare parts. The ERR was found to be negative (para 14, Tables 4, 8A-B, & 9).
11.    The outcome of this project has been unsatisfactory. The original targets have not been
met, and benefits anticipated in the SAR have not materialized. The benefits are unlikely to
materialize even in the future unless far reaching restructuring is carried out and the loss of traffic
to the trucking sector arrested and, at least, partially reversed. Even though, in the last two years
of project implementation, significant progress was made in the preparation of restructuring plans,
the short time-frame limited the progress that could have reasonably been achieved in implementing
these plans (paras. 14, 3 7).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Important Findings. First, for satisfactory implementation, particularly for complex
organizations such as the railways, the main objectives and the performance targets have to be
defined more comprehensively and precisely, and well understood and accepted by the departments
responsible for achieving them. Second, in view of wide fluctuations in traffic demand and the
increasing rail-road competition, considerable flexibility needs to be built into the project design to
enable quick response to the changing environment. Third, for activities where the railway
management has persistently been unable to achieve performance objectives such as locomotive
availability and reliability, more fundamental restructuring including private sector involvement
must be made a part of the project design (sections B,C & I).
13.    Future Operations and Sustainability. Project sustainability is uncertain at this stage.
ZR's current management recognizes the urgent need for far reaching restructuring, including staff
retrenchment, as reflected in its Revival Plan. However, the staff retrenchment program has been
put on hold because of lack of funds for the payment of retrenchment packages. In view of the
very competitive environment that has now emerged, participation of private sector in the
management of ZR, through concessioning of some or all railway activities, appears unavoidable if
ZR is to be commercially viable. In the event that GOZ supports a major restructuring of the
railway followed by concessioning, the Bank could assist GOZ through a follow-up project. In the
meantime, a privatization study is about to start and its conclusions and GOZ's acceptance of these
conclusions will determine the nature of future Bank involvement (section H).
14.    Key Lessons Learned. The FRP experience underscores the importance of: (i) a
comprehensive, but flexible, project design, fully owned by the borrower; (ii) meaningful
institutional arrangements and donor coordination; (iii) clearly defining the role of the railways,
including separation of commercial services from public service obligations; (iv) avoiding
strategies based on incremental improvements in the case of parastatal organizations with a track
record of poor performance; (v) adequate and timely availability of local funding; and (vi) a clear
understanding of the borrower's intemal systems and the need for training in Bank procedures
(section I, paras 41-49).






PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Objectives
1.    The overriding objective of the Fourth Railway Project (FRP) was to increase the
efficiency with which Zambia Railways (ZR) utilized its existing resources. This increase in
efficiency was expected to ease the capacity constraint faced by ZR and consequently avoid traffic
diversion to more costly road transport. The approach to improve the efficiency with which the
existing assets were utilized rather than finance a capacity expansion, as made at the time of the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), reflected good economic principles and sound judgment of potential
traffic development. Although subsequent macro-economic developments and ZR's performance
indicated that this incremental approach could not have been very successful, ZR management's
reluctance to accept even this modest approach would likely have made more radical solutions,
such as downsizing and/or private sector participation in operations, unworkable at the time.
2.    It was clear from the start that neither the ZR management nor the Government of Zambia
(GOZ) did completely identify with the project's objective, and consequently the project suffered
from lack of ownership. The short and medium term strategic plans developed by ZR just prior to
negotiations were clearly oriented towards expansion rather than intensive utilization of existing
capacity. ZR's management agreed to proceed with the project with an understanding that the
preparation for a follow-up project, which would more closely reflect the management's strategy,
would start immediately after the commencement of FRP with the two projects eventually
overlapping. GOZ's and ZR's preference for expansion rather than the rehabilitation and intensive
utilization of existing capacity was also demonstrated when GOZ and ZR not only accepted the
US$400 million Ten-Year Development Plan (TDP) prepared by SATCC-financed consultants,
but also actively sought donor financing for its implementation. These actions took place during
the period of suspension of IDA disbursements and were in clear violation of the legal covenants to
the FRP credit.
3.    The main project objective was supported by a number of operational targets (Table 6).
The set of operational targets had a number of shortcomings which made them difficult to achieve
and monitor, and tended to encourage inefficient behavior. More specifically: (i) no comprehensive
financial target was specified; (ii) the operational targets were not comprehensive and were not
adequately defined; and (iii) management actions necessary to achieve the objective were not
elaborated; and (iv) the targets did not appear to have been completely accepted and owned by
ZR's management.
4.    Lack of Comprehensive Financial Target. The absence of a comprehensive financial
target was the most glaring omission in the project design, more so in view of the unsatisfactory
financial performance under the Third Railway Project (TRP). By linking traffic earnings, costs,
and capital employed, a comprehensive financial objective such as the return on capital employed
(ROCE) would have underscored the need for reducing both operating costs and investments,
without which it was impossible for ZR to provide least-cost transport. However, such a target was
not specified and no link was established between the improvements in operational efficiency and
financial performance of the railway, nor between the improvements in operational efficiency of the
railway and transport policy and budget. The lack of these connections facilitated the ZR
management turnabout after disbursements to Zambia were suspended in 1987, at which time the
SAR strategy was completely abandoned and ambitious expansion plans pursued without raising
questions from the Government and cofinancing institutions.



I                     - 2 -
5.    Inadequate Operational Targets. The operational targets specified in the SAR were also
neither comprehensive, nor adequately defined, and were prone to dysfunctional consequences.
Emphasizing locomotive utilization rather than locomotive productivity undermined the importance
of maximizing trailing and wagon loads, and minimizing empty train running. Emphasizing
locomotive availability without simultaneously emphasizing locomotive reliability tended to
relegate quality to secondary importance. By not according weights to different categories of staff,
the staff productivity target tended to encourage staff reduction at lower levels with little impact on
staff costs.
6.    Lack of Management Action Plan. The management actions necessary to achieve the
performance targets were not adequately elaborated. More specifically: (i) staff and wagon
productivity targets could not have been achieved without considerable reduction of staff and
rolling stock but such requirements were not explicitly or implicitly indicated in the project design;
(ii) locomotive utilization, wagon productivity, and wagon turnaround targets could not have been
achieved without restructuring operations, streamlining loading/unloading arrangements, and
improving coordination with the neighboring railways, but no such arrangements were defined in
the project nor was an operational improvement study commissioned until 1992; (iii) the
operational targets were static in nature (to be reached by 1987 with no targets defined for the
intermediate years), and were not explicitly linked to traffic projections. The drastic drop in traffic
rendered some of the productivity targets unachievable without drastic restructuring of ZR, while
other targets (locomotive and wagon availability) became less relevant to the achievement of the
main objective.
7.     Targets Not Owned by ZR Management. The lack of ZR's ownership of project objective
had a direct implication for the implementation of the supporting operational targets. The
achievability of these targets was not given adequate importance by ZR management and actions
taken in the following years indicate very little concern for their impact on the achievement of these
targets.
8.     The project strategy was changed informally, i.e., without a formal reappraisal, at the
reactivation of the project in 1993. The incremental approach of improving the operational
efficiency of the existing structure was replaced by a fundamental restructuring of ZR. The
performance targets were modified to make them more appropriate for the much changed
environment. A more comprehensive ROCE target was included. A short-term action plan was
developed, together with ZR's management, to achieve the revised targets. During the period of
intensive supervision which followed the project's reactivation, the short-term action plan was
continuously reviewed and adjusted. While the choice not to pursue formal reappraisal was
instrumental in maintaining the dialogue with the implementing agency, it also resulted in a lost
opportunity to involve GOZ more intensively in project implementation and supervision.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
9.     During the first two years of project implementation, i.e., after becoming effective in 1985
until the suspension of the IDA credit in 1987', almost all the performance indicators declined to
values lower than those at the start of the project. The shortcomings in defining the performance
In 1987, only fifteen months after FRP became effective, and after only about USS3 million
disbursed out of the total credit of US$20.5 mnillion, IDA's disbursements to Zambia and to FRP
were suspended subsequent to Zambia defaulting on payments.



I                - 3 -
targets, the absence of a clear action plan, too short a period for effective implementation resulting
from delayed effectiveness and suspension of disbursement, and delay in the cofinanciers'
commencement of their respective components did no doubt contribute to the worsening
performance. However, ZR management's inertia and GOZ's indifference played a very
significant role in the deterioration of performance.
10.   During the period of suspension of disbursement, ZR's performance deteriorated further
with locomotive, wagon, and staff productivities declining to 75, 55, and 60% of their respective
targets, the lowest in the last ten years. Continuing ineffectiveness of ZR's management in the face
of the declining traffic, coupled with the management's decision to purchase additional assets (15
locomotives and 500 wagons) not specified in the project and heavy hiring of staff (700 or 10% of
the total staff strength), greatly contributed to the sharp decline in profits. The net losses for the
year 1990 reached an all time high of 30% of the gross income.
11.   By 1991, when the disbursements to Zambia were resumed, the change in the market
environment had already compromised the initial project design and rendered the original objective
obsolete. Traffic had declined and was still declining, productivity was low. Yet, even at the low
productivity levels, the staff and assets were surplus to the requirements. Further disbursement
under FRP was, therefore, made conditional on ZR developing a strategic plan aimed at increasing
ZR's share of freight traffic through improved operations; reducing staff; mothballing surplus
assets; abandoning uneconomic lines, stations, and facilities; and reducing operating and capital
costs.
12.   Between 1991 and 1993, ZR completed an Operations Improvement Study and complied
with some of the above-mentioned conditions: (i) staff numbers were reduced, though only
marginally; (ii) some surplus assets were scrapped while some others were mothballed; (iii) hiring
of locomotives from South Africa was discontinued; (iv) average holding time of foreign wagons
on ZR was reduced; and (v) some cost controls were introduced. As a result the locomotive,
wagon and staff productivity indicators improved marginally but were still much below the original
target. Based on this performance and ZR's promise of developing a comprehensive corporate
strategy, limited disbursements (SDR 8 million were cancelled) were resumed mainly to improve
the condition of the infrastructure and to enable ZR to recapture some of the lost fteight traffic.
13.   Since the resumption of disbursement under FRP in 1993 and until the close of the project,
only about 30% of the originally allocated IDA funds was disbursed, and the materials purchased
from funds disbursed in 1993-94 were still awaiting custom clearance at the end of 1994.
Nevertheless, ZR made some progress in achieving targets identified in the short-term action plan
for downsizing the railway. Progress was also made towards reaching targets of increased
locomotive utilization, locomotive reliability, and reduction in yard detention times.
14.   Inspite of cancellation of about US$8 million of the IDA Credit, the actual project cost
exceeded the original estimates by about US$68 million (or about 80% of the original project cost),
and the ERR was found to be negative (Tables 4, 8A-B, and 9). The additional capital
expenditures of about US$76 million included the following: (i) US$30 million for 15 new
locomotives financed through internal borrowing; (ii) US$30 million for 500 new wagons under
grant financing from CIDA and India; (iii) US$10 million for locomotive spare parts financed by
Japan; (iv) doubling of its contributions by USAID from originally anticipated US$5 million to
US$10 million; and (v) provisions by KfW of an additional US$1 million. All other cofinanciers
continued with their original program and most of the allocated funds were disbursed except for: (i)
about US$8 million of the IDA credit which, as indicated above, were eventually canceled; and (ii)



I                     - 4-
about US$4 million of the ADB loan and accrued interest on the Belgian grant which remain to be
disbursed.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   Apart from the shortcomings in the original project objectives discussed in section A, most
notably the lack of ownership, the project outcome was affected by at least five other major
factors: (i) initial project delays; (ii) suspension of disbursement of funds under the IDA credit; (iii)
lack of specific mechanism to adjust for the withdrawal of one or more donors; (iv) deterioration in
ZR's business and economic environment after 1991; and (v) lack of adequate concern and
attention for the critical issues on part of GOZ, even after ZR lost a considerable share of its
freight traffic.
16.   Initial Project Delays. The project was approved in March 1985 but did not become
effective until December 1985. Until May of 1987, very little disbursement took place.
Specifically, only 1% of the IDA credit was disbursed as compared to the 44% anticipated in SAR.
The other cofinancing institutions, except for SIDA, did not commence their disbursements until
1988. By the initially planned project closing date in 1989, only about 20% of total project funds
had been disbursed. As of the project closing in 1994, US$ 1.1 million of accrued interest on the
Belgian grant and 2.5 million U.S. dollars of AfDB loan remain undisbursed (Tables 3 and 4).
17.   Suspension of Disbursements. The suspension of disbursements had two very adverse
consequences. First, the IDA-financed components were integral parts of the project, and the
suspension of their implementation, while other components were being implemented, compromised
the integrity of the original design. Second, while the IDA credit was suspended, the ZR
management acquired 500 new wagons through donations from CIDA and Africa Fund, and
decided to purchase 15 new locomotives. Furthermore, during the period of credit suspension, ZR
engaged in heavy recruitment, which resulted in a net addition of approximately 700 staff. The
locomotive purchase, and the debt incurred to finance it, violated two of the project's covenants
and were in clear conflict with the project objective, as was the heavy recruitment. The
Association did not learn about these acquisitions until 1991, which indicates how limited was
IDA's ability to supervise the project while its lending to Zambia was suspended.
18.   Lack of Specific Mechanism to Adjustfor the Withdrawal of One or More Donors.
SAR rated the project physical and economic risks as minimal. However, the number of
cofinanciers combined with the lack of specific mechanism to adjust for the temporary or
permanent withdrawal of one or more donors, made the project inherently vulnerable. The
suspension of IDA disbursements created a void in project supervision that was neither filled by
GOZ nor other donors. Despite the fact that the suspension of IDA disbursement created a major
gap in project financing and that FRP objectives were openly abandoned and the covenants violated
by ZR's management (as described in the paragraph above), the implementation of the project
continued and disbursements from other donors were made without major adjustments to project
design.
19.   Deterioration in Business Environment. In 1991, when the disbursement to Zarnbia was
resumed, the circumstances had changed significantly since the preparation of SAR. The freight
traffic on ZR was sharply declining due to: (i) the liberalization of the economy which led to a
significant expansion of the trucking sector; (ii) the slowing down of the economic growth which
led to less transport demand; (iii) more intensive utilization of the rail route to Dar-Es-Salaam,
which led to significant reduction in ton-kms as compared to the use of southem routes; and (iv)



increased customer demand for quality of service and information regarding their goods, which ZR
was not geared to provide. Under the changed environment, simple commencement of
disbursements according to the initial project design was not considered desirable. The project,
therefore, had to undergo another two-year project preparation phase, which however involved only
one of the donors while the other co-financing institutions continued the disbursement of their
funds.
20.   Lack of Involvement by GOZ. The project design suffered from the lack of a broader
transport policy framework within which the railway sector issues should have been addressed.
This may have contributed to GOZ's lack of involvement in the project. Despite the changing
environment and ZR's steadily declining performance, GOZ undertook no concrete actions aimed
at reversing or at least stemming the decline. More specifically GOZ: (i) did not clarify the roles of
ZIMCO, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, and the Board of Directors (BOD), as a
result of which ZR not only lacked good direction but often were caught between conflicting
perceptions and demands of these supervising agencies; (ii) constituted an extremely unwieldy and
ill-functioning BOD with about 16 members, some of whom lacked the necessary qualifications;
(iii) failed to introduce a transparent process for ensuring the selection of the most qualified
professional as ZR's Managing Director; and (iv) did not sign an appropriate memorandum of
understanding regarding the compensation to ZR for public service obligations and incentives for
meeting its perfornance targets.
D.    Project Sustainability
21.   Project sustainability at this stage is uncertain. More promising and hopeful indications
include: (i) GOZ's acceptance of the Japanese grant for a privatization study and subsequent
implementation of the recommendations, if considered acceptable; (ii) ZR's recognition of the
urgent need for major restructuring, including staff retrenchment, as reflected in its Revival Plan
which was presented to ZIMCO, and subsequently the Cabinet in the fall of 1994; (iii) possibility
of eliminating/curtailing the role of ZIMCO; (iv) GOZ's willingness to reconstitute BOD and select
the Managing Director through a transparent selection process; (v) GOZ's signing of an agreement
with Sweden for providing technical assistance for defining the restructuring strategy; (vi) GOZ's
intention to separate operations from infrastructure; and (vii) availability of substantial track and
other materials to enable ZR to speedily improve the condition of its infrastructure.
22.   The discouraging indications include: (i) GOZ continuing with the loss-making and
uneconomic service such as the inter-city and commuter passenger services, and the passenger
operations on the Mulobezi line; (ii) GOZ continuing with the construction of the Mchinji-Chipata
extension despite clear indications of very little traffic; (iii) delay by GOZ in promoting a
simplified organization structure for ZR and in selecting ZR's Managing Director; (iv) GOZ taking
exceedingly long time in clarifying the issue of import duty for about US$8 million worth of track
and other materials which continued to be detained by the customs departmnent; (v) GOZ not having
decided on a clear exit policy and not providing any financial assistance to enable ZR to retrench
staff; and (vi) ZR management still needing to adequately define some elements of the restructuring
strategy.
23.   ZR's current financial position and cash flow renders its ability to carry out the
restructuring uncertain. The staff retrenchment program has been put on hold because of lack of
funds for the payment of retrenchment packages. The feasibility of the privatization of some
support function such as workshops have been discussed but final decision is pending the
completion of the privatization study. In the absence of thorough restructuring of operations, ZR's



-6-
operational and financial results will continue to deteriorate and improvements financed by the
project will not be sustained.
E.    Bank Performance
24.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory in the identification phase, unsatisfactory in the
preparation and appraisal phase, and highly satisfactory during supervision.
25.   In the early eighties, exports and imports each constituted around 35% of Zambia's GDP
making the country highly dependent on its transport network and its access to seaports through
neighboring countries. ZR was at the center of all available rail routes linking Zambia to various
seaports, and the operating efficiency and reliability of the rail network was critical to the growth
of Zambia's external trade. Identification of a project to enhance the railways' performance by
focusing on increased utilization of existing assets rather than undertaking fresh investments
accorded well with the country's strategy of preventing transport from becoming a bottleneck to
external trade and the Bank strategy of encouraging rehabilitation of existing assets. The
commencement of the project cycle was also well timed to avoid a gap between the closure of TRP
and start of implementation of FRP.
26.   With the Bank's assistance in preparing the project, the existing constraints were identified
and the project design turned out to be cost-effective and covered most aspects of ZR operations.
If implemented properly, the project would have improved the operating ratio from 95% to 65%,
and offered an economic rate of return of 24% without causing any adverse impact on the
environment. The Bank's performance in the area of preparation can not, however, be considered
satisfactory due to less focus on a few aspects which later adversely affected the project outcome.
First, ZR, the implementing agency, did not fully own some aspects of the project design
particularly the absence of provision to buy new locomotives. Second, while staff productivity was
emphasized, no explicit program of staff retrenchment was included as a part of the project design.
Third, no specific strategy was defined for overcoming the institutional and policy constraints,
though the constraints were well identified. Finally, the project design lacked flexibility and there
were no fall-back positions in the event of basic assumptions of traffic growth proving wrong.
27.    The Bank's performance in the area of appraisal was unsatisfactory. Under the scenarios
examined in the SAR, the project was technically, economically, environmentally, commercially,
and financially viable. The appraisal, however, under-emphasized the institutional and policy
constraints, overstated ZR's technical competence, ignored the problems associated with ZR's
obvious top-heavy and multi-layered organization structure, minimized the risk of declimnig traffic,
some indications of which had already become available by 1982/83, did not recognize the absence
of intermediate performance targets and of clear action plans to achieve the agreed targets, failed to
appreciate the borrower's reluctance to embrace of some of the difficult components of the project
such as locomotive and staff productivity, and did not address the various risks inherent to lack of
flexibility in the project design.
28.    Both the progress of implementation of FRP and the effectiveness of the Bank supervision
were grossly undermined, first, due to an abnormal delay of almost one year in the Project
becoming effective and, second, due to the suspension of Bank disbursements to Zambia between
1987 and 1991. As a result, until the designated closing date of June 30, 1989, the Project had
been effectively implemented for only one year during which only about 15% of the credit
allocation, i.e., US$3 million, was disbursed. Despite these constraints and despite a complete
break in dialogue between the Bank and GOZ regarding this project between 1987 and 1991, the



I                - 7-
Bank's performance in the area of project supervision has been highly satisfactory. During the
period prior to the suspension of disbursement, the focus of the supervision missions was to
enhance ZR's performance targets, and more specifically, to discourage fresh investments in
locomotives and wagons. The failure in this regard was due to the discontinuation of the
supervision missions subsequent to suspension of disbursements.
29.   The 4-year period of suspension proved to be the most damaging for the project. Despite
the continuing of implementation of the donor-financed components during the period of
suspension, the Project suffered serious adverse consequences due to the absence of supervision by
the Bank. In the face of steadily declining freight traffic and falling productivity indicators, ZR
management, supported by the SATCC-financed studies and the resulting 10-year Development
Plan (TDP), continued to harbor hopes of achieving unrealistically high levels of freight traffic.
Instead of staff cutbacks, refocusing of investment priorities, and concentration on improved
operating efficiency, ZR management expanded its staffing levels, and enthusiastically sought
donor support for the US$400 million TDP. When that support failed to materialize, ZR
management invested its own and commercially-borrowed funds to finance purchase of 14 main
line locomotives. The resulting overcapitalization and increased staffing costs have had a
debilitating effect on ZR's financial performance. According to ZR's own analysis, the capital-
output ratio on ZR doubled during the 1984-94 period.
30.   When the Bank resumed its role after the lifting of suspensions in 1991, the economic,
business, and political environment had changed quite dramatically. The Bank rightly insisted on
ZR agreeing to downsizing and restructuring its operations and involving private sector in its core
activities before agreeing to the disbursement of the remaining FRP funds. As a result of intensive
dialogue between the Bank and ZR/GOZ during this period, ZR finally abandoned the TDP and
started the process of developing realistic restructuring and privatization plans. The need for
restructuring/privatization found progressively more acceptance as the freight traffic on ZR
continued to decline. The decline was partly due to reasons beyond ZR's control - economic
liberalization leading to more intensive competition from other transport modes, slowdown of
economic growth in Zambia, worsening of political situation in Zaire, reemergence of Tazara as a
viable alternative. Several important reasons behind the decline were, however, within ZR's
control - poor operating efficiency, accidents, and inadequate marketing. Even though the actual
restructuring of ZR did not take place before the final closing of the project, the intensive
supervision of the project led to a series of actions aimed at commercializing the railway and
involvement of the private sector in ZR's core activities such as acceptance of a grant for a
privatization study, preparation of internal plans for retrenchment of staff and rationalization of
physical assets, and increased focus on financial rather than operational performance.
F.    Borrower's Performance
31.   The Borrower's performance was generally unsatisfactory throughout the project cycle and
more so in the areas of project implementation and covenant compliance. The detailed evaluation of
the main parties involved is given below.
GOZ/MOTC
32.   The unsatisfactory performance of GOZ/MOCT during the implementation phase of the
project stemmed from: (i) GOZ's inability to act as a shareholder and ensure commercially sound
behavior from the parastatal organization under its supervision; (ii) lack of response to suspension
of IDA disbursement; and (iii) lack of broader transport policy framework.



I                     - 8-
33.   Shareholder's Responsibility. As a shareholder, GOZ failed to exercise proper oversight
and demand efficiency, profitability and commercial justification for investments. Even though
ZIMCO, as ZR's holding company, was expected to take full responsibility for ZR's performance,
its role was never clarified by the Govemment. ZIMCO neither exercised its proper authority nor
shouldered its responsibility towards ZR. ZIMCO's interventions in ZR's affairs lacked focus and
were often inconsistent. The performance of ZR's successive BODs was also inadequate. The
BODs were generally unwieldy comprising as many as 16 members often inadequately qualified
for the job, and functioned without clearly defined role and responsibility. Most of BOD members
were officials of other parastatals with no or little experience of commercial operations. BODs
were made further ineffective by persistent intemal conflicts. The MOTC allowed ZR to continue
to operate at low efficiency levels, supported the TDP and the acquisition of additional locomotives
and wagons without any sound commercial justification, and insisted on the continuation of many
loss-making activities such as the Mulobezi line and inter-city passenger services. Furthermore,
GOZ created a very damaging environment of uncertainty through frequent, abrupt, and less than
transparent changes of ZR's top executives.
34.   Lack of Response to Suspension of IDA Disbursement. GOZ did not undertake any
initiatives to modify the FRP design and compensate for the loss of IDA funds and supervision.
When GOZ's decision to abandon the IMF-led structural adjustment program resulted in the
suspension of disbursement, it was necessary for GOZ to ensure that the project plans are
appropriately modified and priorities rearranged with the assistance of the remaining donor
agencies. The loss of the Bank support and supervision should also have been replaced. In the
absence of any altemative arrangements, FRP went adrift with no mechanism to deal with changes
in the socio-economic and political environment.
35.   Lack of Transport Policy Framework. The lack of a broader transport policy framework,
within which the railways' role would be clearly addressed, contributed to ZR's poor performance
and its inability to adapt to the changing macroeconomic and business environment. More
specifically, GOZ should have: (i) created a level-playing field for the different modes of transport;
(ii) clarified ZR's role as a commercial entity by clearly separating commercial services from
public service obligations and compensating for the latter; and (iii) resolved the issue of import
duty on capital goods imported by ZR without unduly delaying the much needed track investments.
ZR
36.    Until 1992, ZR's performance had been characterized by poor project commitment, a
marked inability to tackle the most pervasive issues of inefficiency and poor quality, lack of
accountability for non-performance, and inadequate sensitivity to changes in the economic and
business environment. Even though ZR's performance steadily deteriorated, no attempts were
made to restructure the top-heavy, multi-layered and unwieldy organization structure. Instead,
more staff was recruited and 14 new locomotives were procured, thus tying scarce resources to
non-priority assets and violating FRP legal covenants (Table 10). During that period, ZR's
management consistently resisted offers of strategic planning assistance. In the face of
progressively increasing competition from road transporters, increased customer expectations and
selectivity, and overall sluggish growth of the economy, ZR's management proved largely
ineffective and failed to stop the steady decline of ZR's operational and financial performance.
37.    Only towards the end of the project cycle, i.e., between 1992 and 1994, did ZR take
actions to arrest the deteriorating performance. However, the reform process faced serious



-9-
problems. The retrenchment of staff proved to be quite expensive, and due to scarcity of funds the
progress has been slow. Bringing traffic back to railways is also proving to be difficult.
Involvement of the private sector in the core activities of railways could help, and thus the
management's acceptance of a privatization study was an important step forward.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
38.    The outcome of this project is unsatisfactory. The original targets have not been met and
despite the disbursements made, benefits anticipated in the SAR have not materialized. The
benefits are not likely to materialize unless far reaching restructuring is carried out and the loss of
traffic to the trucking sector arrested, and at least partially reversed. In the last two years of
project implementation, significant progress has been made on institutional development of the
railways and in the preparation of restructuring plans. However, short time-frame and outdated
project design limited the progress that could reasonably have been achieved on implementing these
plans. Sustainability is uncertain but could be improved by a follow up project focused on the
restructuring of the railways.
H.    Future Operation
39.    At the closing of the project, ZR was in the process of implementing five initiatives aimed
at improving ZR's operational and financial performance, the current status of these being as
follows: (i) the Revival Plan, which is phase 1 of the main corporate plan under preparation, is
under implementation; (ii) a draft corporate plan has been prepared by ZR, and is in the process of
being reviewed and refined; (iii) GOZ has agreed to accept the Japanese grant and a privatization
study is expected to commence by September 1995; (iv) GOZ has concluded an agreement with
Sweden to finance a few Restructuring Experts to join ZR for a period of 12 months to further
assist in preparing and implementing the restructuring plan; and (v) materials ordered during the
last year of FRP, and already received, are in the process of being released from customs subject to
GOZ's exempting import duties; their use should make a marked difference to the quality of
infrastructure. Even though both the original and revised Project objectives were not satisfactorily
achieved, the Bank's intense involvement, though for a short period, has helped ZR in developing a
more realistic and pragmatic corporate strategy for future implementation.
40.    The Bank's preparation of a follow up project is contingent on GOZ following through on
the privatization study and its recommendations. The Bank would be interested in facilitating
reform, which would involve radical restructuring of ZR and possible privatization of the whole of
ZR or its key business units, in a follow-up project called the Railways Restructuring Project
(RRP). The project will be taken up for preparation after the conclusion of the privatization study
and the finalization of ZR's restructuring plan.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
41.    The lessons learned, discussed below, underscore the linkage between project success and
the clarity of project design, project ownership, institutional arrangements, donor coordination,
railways role, capability constraint, local funding, and local and Bank rules.
42.   Project Design. The project design must be comprehensive, flexible enough to adjust to
changes in the environment, and allow for easy monitoring of progress against specific action plans
and intermediate performance targets. In case of FRP, the project implementation suffered
considerably because of the following deficiencies in project design: (i) the project design was not



- 10-
comprehensive enough and left pockets of weakness which later became the main excuses for non-
performance; (ii) the project was not flexible enough to automatically adjust itself in case of non-
realization of traffic as projected; (iii) there were no clear action plans to achieve the agreed target;
(iv) no intermediate targets were specified; (v) operational targets were subject to varying
interpretation and resulted in a lack of organizational focus and accountability; and (vi) lack of
broader policy transport policy framework left a void in project design and contributed to the lack
of GOZ involvement in project implementation.
43.   Project Ownership. The importance of project ownership by both the implementing
agency and the government cannot be overemphasized. Furthermore, for projects involving major
restructuring, downsizing, or concessioning, as was the case with FRP in the last few years of the
project, the project success is highly dependent upon the presence of a champion. The entity being
restructured can hardly fit this role, staff at all level being potential losers in the short term. The
main driving force for such a project has to come from the government. To ensure progress,
designating a separate entity to take care of retrenchment of surplus staff and assets is likely to
prove very useful in minimizing conflicts and promoting ownership of key restructuring objectives
of improved performance and downsizing.
44.   Institutional Arrangements. Meaningful institutional arrangements, including clear
definition of authority and responsibility of each of the supervising agencies, are essential for
project success. ZR's performance and FRP implementation suffered from too many supervising
agencies with unclear and overlapping authorities and responsibilities.
45.    Donor Coordination. Projects designed to involve multiple donors need to include
arrangements to compensate for the withdrawal or suspension of the participation of one or more
donors. In particular, in the case of the suspension or withdrawal of the lead donor agency,
arrangements should be made for one of the remaining donor taking the lead and responsibility for
the overall project integrity.
46.   Railways' Role. A clear demarcation between the conmmercial services and those provided
as part of public service obligation is essential. The railways' role as a commercial organization
becomes unclear when, against their commercial judgment, the railways are required to operate
loss-making passenger and commuter services, small stations with negligible traffic offerings, and
uneconomic branch lines without clear agreements with their governments regarding compensation.
Before commencement of a project, it is important to insist on a clear demarcation between
commercial services and those being undertaken by the railways as a part of public service
obligation. This demarcation would invariably result in a clear appreciation of the capital and
operating costs involved and lead to a more efficient decision-making process.
47.    Capability Constraints. In case of parastatals with a track record of poor performance,
incremental improvements are usually not feasible and fundamental restructuring, including
involvement of private sector in operations, is required. Not withstanding the availability of
technical assistance, spare parts and workshop equipment, most Sub-Saharan railways have failed
to manage their locomotive fleet and meet acceptable targets of efficiency and reliability. All
future railway projects need to consider concessioning of locomotives management if not the whole
railway as a necessary component of the project design.
48.   Local Funds. Considerable delay was experienced by ZR in getting the materials and
equipment procured under the project due to the import duty and taxes imposed by GOZ and ZR's



- 11 -
shortage of funds. It is important to either get the government to waive the taxes and duties or to
require the borrower to guarantee the availability of funds required for payment of such.
49.    Borrowers' Internal Systems and Training in Bank Rules. A careful study of the
borrowers' internal systems, particularly procurement and accounting, and of the need to train
borrower's staff in Bank rules and procedures, should be made an integral part of the project
design. Inefficient internal systems often become the main cause of project delays. Training the
borrower staff in the Bank rules and procedures pertaining to procurement, disbursement, special
accounts, Bank-administered grants and loans, and other key processes is likely to enhance the
effectiveness of implementation.



I



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible        Aplicable
Macro Policies                    _                _
Sector Policies                                    _                                                 |
Financial Objectives                               _                                                 l
Institutional Development                                                                            l
Physical Objectives              _
Poverty Reduction                                  _
Gender Issues                                                                              I/
Other Social Objectives                                                                    If 
Environmental Objectives                                                                  I/ 
Public Sector Management         _                                                                   l
Private Sector Development
Other (specify)                  _
B. Project Sustainability        _                     Likel         Unlikely          Uncertain
IL _____ L                         ___ 1 ___ .  ___II
Highly
C. Bank Performance                                 Satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
identification
Preparation Assistance                                                                     I
Appraisal                                          _
! ervision                                                        _
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          |                   Satisfactory    Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation
-Implementation                                    _
Covenant Compliance                                __
1Oeration (if aplicable)          I
|                                 | Highly         l                                 Highly
-1E. Assessment of Outcome        j Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory j Unsatisfctory



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                         Purpose                      Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1. Third Railway Project       The project was to assist in modernizing the  1980                 Completed
rolling stock fleet and increase its utilization,
and thereby its effective capacity to handle the
expected growth in traffic up to 1986.
Following Operations
1.  Railway Restructuring                                                  Proposed               Draft form
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                  Date Planned            Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)             5/26/83                        5/26/83
Preparation                                              9/83                           9/83
Appraisal                                                2/84                           6/86
Negotiations                                           11/12/84                       01/23/85
Effectiveness                                                                         12/17/85
Project Completion                                     6/30/89                        6/30/94
LoA  Closing                                           12/31/89                       6/20/94
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements-Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88         FY89       FY90      FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Appraisal Estimate      500     5500    17000    20000   Suseded  Supeded  Suspided  (2500)'   17500    17500
Actual                    -      240      761      1351      1930      4115       4186     4206     5737    12120
Actual as% of            0%       4%       4%       7%          -         -          -        -      33%     69%
Esfimate
Date of Final
Disbursement          0/31/94
US$2.5 million was cancelled prior to resumption of disbursement in 1993.
2  Actual disbursement in FY94 reached 61% of the appraisal estimate.



Tables 5 & 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation & Implementation
Target' FY 1987                    Actual
h    SAR  ________A    FY 1987              FYr1994
L Key Operating Indicators in SAR
1. Average diesel locomotive availability (%)     75              75             58             74
2. Productivity per available locomotive per year  105            95             85             98
(locomotive-km '000)
3. Average wagon Availability (%)                  90             85             88             89
4. Average turn-around for wagons (days):
(a) General freight domestic                     9              10                            15
(b) Minerals domestic                            8              7                             10
(c) Transit traffic border-to-border             30             4                              6
(d) Export/Import in Zambia                      30             10                            13
5. Average wagon load (tonnes):
(a) General freight                             25              25                            34
(b) Minerals                                    40              40                            41
6. Productivity per available freight wagon per   300            260             209            127
year (tonne-km '000)
7. Staff productivity ('000 traffic units* per    260            230             187            170
employee)                                 _
II. Modified Indicators                              Target FY 1994
1. Locomotive Utilization                                 300                   N/A            278**
(locomotive kms/day)
2. Wagon Utilization                                      60                    N/A             60
(wagon kms/day)
3. Locomotive Reliability                               20,000                  N/A            10,500
(kms between successive failures)
4. Hiring of SA Locomotives (max)                          0                    N/A              0
5. Foreign Wagons in Zambia (max)                        1,000                  N/A             200
6. Derailments (track related) (max)                      60                    N/A              17
1 Targets in the Joint Project Agreement (WPA) differ from those in the SAR. Borrower has been referring to
the JPA.
* Tonne-km plus passenger-km.
** Average for Ist quarter 1994.



Table 7: Studies Included In Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                     at Appraisal/Redefined                   Status            Impact of Study
l  Operational Improvement   The study was to concentrate on yard    The study was completed.   Recommendations
services to improve the circulation and                         which were accepted
transit of wagons at border stations, and at                     are being
the TAZARA connection station at Kapiri                          implemented and are
Mposhi.                                                          yielding results.
2. Component Rehabilitation  The study was to identify suitable parts that   The study could not be  There has been no
could be manufactured locally, on priority    undertaken due to  impact as the study
basis thereby assisting ZR to reduce future    suspension of the Credit    was not undertaken.
requirements of foreign exchange.      Facility.
3. Operational Improvement   Improve yard operations, the circulation and   The redefined study was  Recommendations
transit of wagons at border stations.  undertaken and completed   which were accepted
in September 1993 under    are being undertaken
the reactivated credit.  and are yielding
results.
4. Techno-Economic Feasibility   Determine cost/benefits of easing grades and  Although terms of  Nil
Study for Easing Grades and   flattening curves in the Lusaka-Kafue  reference had been
Flattening of Curves      sections.                               prepared, the study did not
take off due to inadequate
time.
5. Operations of the CTC     Determine whether Zambia Railways needs   The study was not      Nil
to keep the present CTC system, or replace it  undertaken due to
by some less sophisticated system and  inadequate time.
whether maintenance should continue in-
house or be contracted out.
6. Contracting out Maintenance  Determine the economies of contracting out   The study could not be  Nil
and Rehabilitation of Track    maintenance and rehabilitation of track vis-   under-taken due to
and Other and Infrastructure   A-vis doing these in-house.        inadequate time.
7. Development of Management  Develop and implement Management       The study could not be   Although the study
Information System        Information System.                     undertaken under the IDA    was undertaken the
Credit funds but was     recommendations
carried out with Banks'  have not been
own funds and was       implemented due to
completed.              lack of funds.
8. Implementation of Materials   Develop and implement an effective stores    An in-house study has been  Study findings require
Management System          and accounting system.                 undertaken and completed.  implementation.
9. Manpower and Organization   Determine ideal organization structure and    Study undertaken in-house
Structure                 manpower levels commensurate with       and is still in progress.
existing levels of traffic.



Table 8A: Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)              Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Original    Revised
Local     Foreign      Foreign    Revised      Local
Item No.         Cost        Cost        Cost       Total       Cost      Foreign Cost   Total
1. Track                0.7         5.2         5.2         5.9         1.2        9.9           11.0
2. Signal/Telecom        1.8        9.1         9.1        10.9         2.2         9.5           11.7
3. Rolling Stock'        1.9         7.7        7.7         9.6         1.7       35.1           36.8
4. Workshop              0.4         1.2        5.4         5.8         0.4         4.9            5.3
Equip. Vehicle
5. Spare Parts2          3.4        21.1       23.9        27.3         2.9        34.1          337.0
6. Operations            0.6         2.2        4.2         4.8         1.6         4.5            6.1
Facilities
7. Training              0.7         2.7        1.1         1.8         0.4         0.6            1.0
8. Tech. Asst.           1.4         5.2        4.1         5.5         1.1         2.0            3.0
9. Locomotives3                                                        --          30.0           30.0
10. Price
l 10. Price        ~~5.4  .   12.4   . 11.2           16.6
Contingencies&       5          1               .      1                                .         l
Other
Unallocated
Amounts                   .            .          .                       .             . __
TOTAL           16.3        66.8        71.9       88.2         11.5      130.4          141.9
'500 new wagons financed by grants from CIDA and India.
2 Includes locomotive spare parts financed by Japan.
3 14 new locomotives financed through internal borrowing.



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                               Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Revised
Local   Foreign   Foreign    Revised                                Local    Foreign
Source                        Costs           Costs            Cost             Total             Costs            Costs             Total
IDA'                                                --          20.0             17.5               17.5                 --           12.1              12.1
............................................................ ........... .................................................................................................... .................... ....................................................
Cofinancing institutions
AfDB2                                  --           20.0            20.0               20.0                 --           22.6              22.6
SIDA3                                  --             5.2             3.1                3.1                --             2.4              2.4
USAID4                                 --             5.0            10.0               10.0                --            10.0             10.0
Belgium5-                                             4.0             5.1                5.1                               3.4               3.4
KFW6                                   --             1.6             5.2                5.2                --             3.2               3.2
................................................  ..................    ..............  ..........................    ...................    .....................   .........................................................................
Other external sources
Canada/India'                                                                                                            30.0               30.0
Japans                                                                                                      --            10.0             10.0
................................................I........... ............. .......................................................................... ............ .............. ............................................................
Domestic contribution
ZR9                                 16.3             11.0            11.0               27.3             11.5             36.7             48.3
TOTAL                              16.3             66.7            71.9                88.2            11.5            130.4             141.9
'IDA credit was reduced from SDR 20.5 million to SDR 12.5 million in 1992, an equivalent of US$17.5
million at the exchange rate of US$1.4 to 1 SDR
2AfDB Loan - The actual foreign cost increased as a result of currency fluctuations.
3 SIDA - The correct estimated should have been US$3.052 million against US$5.2 million, as reported in
the SAR.
4 USAID increased its contribution from US$5 million as anticipated in the SAR to US$ 10 million.
5 Belgian Grant - Increased by accrued interest of US$ 1. 1 million.
6 KFW - The actual foreign cost increased as a result of currency fluctuations and provison of additional
funding of DM 1 million in 1990.
500 new wagons financed by grants from CIDA and India.
sLocomotive spare parts financed by Japan.
9 Includes 14 new locomotives financed through internal borrowing.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic rate of return (ERR) was re-estimated as follows:
1. the assumptions underlying the original ERR calculation in the SAR were recreated through a financial simulation
2. this set of assumption was then used to re-estimate the ERR using the actual projet costs and the actual traffic.
Conclusions:
The ERR was found to be negative when all expenditures were included.
The ERR was found to be 4% when the additional US$ 60 millions, spent in violation of the project agreement, were excluded.
Despite the much lower traffic, the re-estimated ERR would have remained positive, though much lower than anticipated
in the SAR, had the additional expenditures not been made.
The following table summarizes the calculations performed.
vi                                                                         __=_ __ ___       _
0O PROJECT SCENARIO                                                   18        97      18        99       90      19
Assumptions:
kms per day per available locomotive                       300
load per locomotive per km (t)                             500
number of running days per year                            365
% of empty runs                                           0.33
available locomotives                                                44       41        37       36       36       36       36       36       36           18
otal tkms transported obtained from above assumptions(in millions)             1504     1357    1321      1321     1321     1321     1321     1321         660
Check (obtained from anticipated project benefits)                          1489    1398    1233    1310    1341          1372    1403      1434         647
Accuracy of simulation                                                        1%      -3%       7%       1%      -2%     -4%       -6%       -8%          2%
TRAFFIC ANTICIPATED IN SAR
otal tkms transported (in millions)                                            1542    1576    1610    1641        1672    1703      1734    1765          978
PROJECT BENEFITS ANTICIPATED IN SAR
Assumption:
amount saved per tkm transported by rail (US$)             0.05
Benefit stream (in million of USS)                                     0.00     2.65     8.90    18.87    16.54    16.54    16.54    16.54    16.54        16.54
PROJECT COSTS ANTICIPATED IN SAR
Cost stream (in million of US$)                                       20.80    22.20    14.80     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00        0.00
NET BENEFITS (COSTS)
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANTICIPATED IN SAR
Net benefit (cost) stream (in million of USS)                        -20.80   -19.55    -5.90    18.87    16.54    16.54    16.54    16.54    16.54        16.54
Cumulative net benefit (not discounted)                              137.98
ERR                                                                24%
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .-..-. .                   . ...... X.. .-
N0 PROJECT SCENARIO
(As per the original ERR calculation in the SAR)                                                                                       _
ACTUAL TRAFFIC PERFORMANCE
Total tkms transported (in millions)                                  1481     1365     1355     1342     1444    1081       1025     1074      653         978
PROJECT BENEFITS
Assumption as per the original ERR calculation in the SAR.
Benefit stream (in million of US$)                                     0.00     0.00     0.00      1.07    6.17     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       15.89
PROJECT COSTS
lCost stream (in million of US$)                                       0.93     2.71     4.42    36.13    18.98    18.11    43.32    20.47    29.69         0.00
[NET BENEFITS (COSTS)
Net benefit (cost) stream (in million of US$)                         -0.93    -2.71    -4.42   -35.06   -12.81   -18.11   -43.32   -20.47   -29.69        15.89
Cumulative net benefit (not discounted)                               -8.61
ERR NEGATIVE
0 PROJECT SCENARIO
CTUAL TRAFFIC PERFORMANCE  - as above
ROJECT BENEFITS                                                  I        I                 I         I        I        I        I        I        I
ROJECT COSTS
Cost stream (in million ofUS$)                                         0.93     2.71     4.42     6.13    18.98    18.11|  13.32|  20.471   29.691         0o00
NET BENEFITS (COSTS)
Net benefit (cost) stream (in million of US$)                         -0 93    -2 .71    -44      5 .06   -12 .81   -18.11   -13.32   -20.47   -29 .69     15 .891
Cumulative net benefit (not discounted)                               51.39
ERR                                                                  4%
* per year



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original
Covenant    Present    Fulflltment                    Description of
Agreement           Section        Type         Status         Date                       Covenant                         Comments
1. Joint Project         4.01            1            C            N/A        ZR shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices in its
operations and financial conditions
2. Joint Project        4.02 (a)          1           C            N/A        (i) ZR shall have its accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by
independent Auditors acceptable to the
Associationl
I          CD            N/A        (ii) Furnish to the Association as soon as  ZR has been submitting
available, but in any case not later than six    the certified accounts
months after the end of each such year: -  over the past years
a) certified copies of its financial statements   although with some
for such year as so audited, and          delays.
b) the report of such audit by said Auditors,
of such scope and in such details as the
Association shall have reasonably requested.
9            C            N/A        (iii) Furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accounts,
financial statements, records, and
expenditures, as well as the audit therefore,
as Association shall from time to tirne
reasonably request
3. Joint Project        4.02(b)          I            C            N/A        (i) Maintain in accordance with section 4.02
(a) separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
I  C        N/A         (ii) Retain until one year after the closing
date, all records (contracts orders, invoices,
bills, receipts, and other documents)
evidencing such expenditure.
1           C            N/A        (iii) Enable the associations representatives
to examine such records, and
I           CP                       (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are  Although Annual Audits
included in the annual Audit referred to in  have been done no
para 4.02(a), and that the report therefore  separate opinion by the
contains in respect of such separate accounts,  Auditors was expressed.
a separate opinion by the said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdraws
in respect of such expenditures have been
used for the purpose for which they were
provided.
4. Joint Project         4.03            2            NC           N/A         From the date hereof until completion of the    ZR purchased 15
project, ZR shall not undertake any       locomotives at about
investment beyond those included in the   US$30.0 million without
project estimated to the aggregate of two  clearance from the Bank.
million dollars (US$2.0 million) without the
prior approval ofthe Associations.
5. Joint Project         4.04            2           NC            N/A         Except as the Association shall agree, ZR  ZR incurred a debt to
shall not incur any debt unless the net   fulfill the contract for
revenue of ZR for the fiscal year, or for the  purchase of locomotives.
twelve consecutive months immediately
proceeding the data of such incurrence.



Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
ENo significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank operational manual statement has been found|
Table 12: Bank Resources
Stage of Project cycle   _____ Planned _____-_____-Revised _____                  Actual______
l__________________    Weeks          US$         Weeks   I   US$           Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal  N/A         N/A                  .                 44          N/A
Appraisal                N/A          N/A                                    44          N/A
Negotiations through     N/A          N/A                                    14          N/A
Board approval
Supervision              N/A          N/A                                    104         N/A
Completion               11.5         N/A                                    12          N/A
TOTAL             N/A          N/A                                   218          N/A



Table 13: Bank Resources-Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of
Project     Month/    No. of    Days in    Specialize Staff Skills  Implementation   Development
Cycle       Year       Persons      Field         Represented            Status        Objectives     Types of Problems
Through*        N/A         N/A        N/A               N/A
appraisal
Appraisal*      N/A         N/A        N/A               N/A
through
Board
approval
Supervision     7/86         3          11         Financial Analyst           2               1              Financial
Senior Economist                                         Procurement
Operations Analyst                                        Operations
7/87         1          7          Financial Analyst          2               1                  _
2/88         3          7          Financial Analyst          3               2               Financial
Transport Specialist                                      Procurement
__________  ___________                    ______________      ~~~~Operations
3/92         2          16         Railway Engineer          N/A             N/A
Transport Economist
10/92        2          12         Railway Engineer            3               3              Financial
Senior Economist                                         Operations
3/93         1          9          Railway Engineer           2               2              Financial
Operations
8/93         1          -          Railway Engineer           2               2
5/94         3                     Railway Engineer           2               2              Financial
Transport Economist                                        Operations
Transport Specialist
Completion      11/94        2          13         Railway Engineer
Private Sector
Development
Specialist
*W B database does not include information dating as far back as this project preparation phase, and the paper files for the period
before 1986 are incomplete.



Appendix A
ZAMBIA
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT - CR. 1575 ZA AND
WORLD BANK COMPLETION MISSION - NOVEMBER 1994
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    The World Bank mission, comprising Ms. Agnieszka Grudzinska (Private Sector
Development Specialist, AFl El) and Mr. Yash Pal Kedia (Senior Railway Engineer/Mission
Leader, AFIEI), visited Zambia between November 2 and 10 and again between November
18 and 22, 1994 to initiate the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for
the Fourth Railways Project (FRP) and to provide advice and support to Zambia Railway (ZR)
in the preparation of its contribution to the ICR.
2.    At the request of the mission. ZR set up a task force comprising representatives from
the key departments, at the middle and top management level, to prepare the FRP evaluation
report from their perspective. The mission explained to the task force the Bank procedures
for implementation completion reporting (BP 13.55). The mission and the task force agreed
on the project-specific data, to be collected in addition to that specified in the BP 13.55, as
well on the report format Further, the mission and the task force agreed on the timetable for
completion of data collection and review, preparation of ZR's draft implementation completion
report, and exchange of views on FRP implementation experience. The mission would like
to record its appreciation of ZR management for providing the agreed inputs in a timely and
professional manner and for the frank discussion that followed. The following sections record
the summary of discussions and the actions to be taken by ZR and the Bank to complete the
ICR.
Summary of Discussions
3.    Due to substantial changes in the environment over the 10-year period of project
irip:ementation, and the suspension of disbursement between 1987 and .551. it was a;seed
that the evaluation will be facilitated by breaking the projection implementation into distinctive
periods such as prior, during, and after suspension of IDA disbursement to Zambia. The
original project objective of improving the utilization of existing assets was not achieved up to
the time of lifting the suspension of IDA disbursement to Zambia. This was mainly due to the
problems created by the delayed effectiveness of the project and suspension of disbursement,
agggravated by inadequacies in ZR's management and the deterioration in the enabling
environment Both parties agreed to further elaborate on the impact of the above mentioned
factors. After the suspension was lifted, considerable effort was made to modify the original
project objective and targets. When the agreement was reached on the modified objective,
the project was reactivated and some progress was made in achieving the revised objective
and targets.



2
4.    Deviations from the original project design, and investments in violation of the FRP
strategy were highlighted during the discussions. These included substitution of the spot track
renewal strategy with renewal of a continuous stretch of 66 kms; procurement of 15 new high
powered locomotives; and procurement of about 400 additional wagons; and lobbying for
donor financing of the Ten-year Development Plan which would have required US $400 million
in new investments.
5.   It was agreed that IDA's role as a project leader subsequent to the suspension of
disbursements to Zambia was not clear and contributed to the erratic implementation of the
project and subsequent deviation in the original FRP strategy. Perhaps, the targets should
have been reviewed and resources reallocated. ZR also felt that, when the project was
reactivated, the period given for implementation was unrealistically short particularly in the light
of the Bank's rigid procurement rules.
6.    Some of the other factors that contributed to poor project implementation included
frequent changes of ZR's top executives, changes in the overall policy directions, and
insistence on imported spare parts and components being routed through Dar Es Salaam and
withdrawal of import duty exemption which caused delay in the procurement of these spare
parts. The impact of these factors would be further examined.
7.    Several issues such as management committment and accountability, Govemment's
committment, revision of objectives and targets in cases of delay, strong intemal montoring
by implementing agencies, adherence to IDA's procurement rules, avoiding the co-financing
of indivisible project components were discussed with regard to lessons leamt. These would
be elaborated in more detail.
8.    Project sustainability and future operations were discussed in light of ZR's Revival and'
Restructuring Plans and it was agreed that an Action Plan in suitable format would be
extracted from the above mentioned documents and annexed to the completion report. The
Action Plan will also include a detailed plan for utilizing materials, procured just prior to project
c.as.h,. to further the project objectives.
Actions to be taken
9.    ZRwould finalize their completion report, including the Action Plan, in view of the
discussions described above, and send the same to the Bank as soon as possible but before



3
December 9, 1994. The Bank would finalize its report and send the same to the Govememnt
of Zambia and ZR as well as the co-financing donor agencies by December 30, 1994.
10.   ZR agreed to make the following modifications to the 1984-94 data on traffic, operating
and financial performance, human and physical resorces, and the disbursement and the
financial covenants under FRP:
(a)   staff strength at the end of each year will be reconciled taking into account the
changes during each year and the casual and regular staff strengths will be
shown separately;
(b)   comments will be provided against all financial covenants which have not been
complied with;
(c)   for evaluating the operating performance from and after 1988, the targets for
1988 indicated in the joint Project Agreement will be used and the target for
wagon loading for general wagons will be taken as 35 tonnes instead of 25
tonnes; and
(d)   the compliance against the short-term action plan will also be indicated in a
separate table;
11.   This Aide-Memoire will be confirmed by the World Bank Headquarters.
Hanson Sindo.;e   /                 Yash P. Kedia
Managing Director                 Senior Railway Engineer
Zambia Railways Limited                   World Bank



I



Appendix B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1. INTRODUCTION
The Bank Group has extended financial assistance to Zambia Railways during the ten (10) years
prior to the Fourth Railway Project. In 1980 under loan 1790-ZA and Credit 973-ZA, a total of
US$40 million was provided to co-finance the Third Railway Project.
The facility was provided for Track and Telecommunication Improvements, rolling stock and
maintenance spare parts, workshop equipment, data processing facilities and technical assistance.
The total project cost was US$130.15 million. The project was completed in 1986.
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY - FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
2 .1 PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project's general objective was to improve the operational efficiency of the railway by
replacing life expired materials and equipment. This included the following: -
a) the renewal of 66km of track and casual renewals of 13km of rails and 25km of sleepers;
b) the replacement of the overhead open wire system with radio communication equipment;
c) the replacement of 170 wagons;
d) replacement of workshop equipment;
e) provision of spare parts;
f) operational facilities; and
g) training, technical assistance and studies.
In order to meet the above objectives, operational targets were set as given in Table 1. However,
after the reactivation of the Credit in 1993, some of the targets were revised in line with the
short-term action plan.
2.2 ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project components were implemented as follows: -
2.2.1 Track Renewal
In 1990, end-cropping the 801b rails, welding and relaying over prestressed concrete sleepers,
over the 66km section were completed.
However, residual works which include reballasting, tamping and conversion to long welded
panels are yet to be completed. These works are now expected to be completed by the end of
October 1995.
The major problems in completing these works include inadequate and erratic supply of ballast,
defective tamping machines and flushbutt welding plant. However, since rehabilitation spare
parts are not in the country and are only waiting customs clearance, repair work is expected to
start soon.
The track has become safe in the section. However, sectional speed is expected to increase when
the residual works are completed.



- 2 -
The casual renewals of 25km of wooden sleepers and 13km of rails were completed. A further
147km was renewed with concrete sleepers in derailment prone areas using own funds. This has
reduced incidence of derailments in the affected sections.
2.2.2 Signaling and Telecommunication
The installation of radio equipment in place of overhead open wire links was completed. This
has improved the quality of communication channels. However, the general performance of the
CTC system still remains unsatisfactory because of the signaling field equipment which is
prone to vandalism, theft and delayed replacement of track batteries.
2.2.3 Wagons
Out of 170 wagons proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report, only 160 wagons were purchased
because of inadequate funds. In addition, Zambia Railways acquired 505 wagons through
donations from CIDA and AFRICA Fund. These wagons were mostly of specialized nature in
which shortages were being experienced i.e. tanks, flats and covered wagons. This improved
the reliability and availability of the wagon fleet.
2.2.4 Workshop Equipment
Due to the suspension of the IDA Credit, the Wheel Lathe and the Signal Workshop equipment
were not purchased. This adversely affected the maintenance of wheels and signal and
telecommunications equipment.
The procurement of the Workshop Equipment under the Belgian grant facility was further
delayed following the failure by the purchasing agent to abide by the Bank's procurement
guidelines.
2.2.5 Spare parts
Spare parts under the USAID grant for locomotive overhaul were all received and 25
locomotives overhauled.
Although their performance improved, the average availability of 65 % and reliability of
7,000km per failure were below the targets. This was due to the fact that substandard
components were utilized on the first batch of nine (9) locomotives following the late delivery
of spare parts.
In addition, 17 locomotives were overhauled using spare parts received under the Japanese
grant. The average availability increased to 80% and reliability to 26,077km per failure as
against the target of 75 % and 20,000km per failure respectively.
Further, Zambia Railways purchased 15 new locomotives using its own funds and a loan from
a Commercial Bank.
This has further improved the average availability and reliability of the locomotive fleet.
The spare parts for the Signaling and Telecommunications Equipment financed by the African
Development Bank loan were all received for ongoing maintenance works.
The track machine spare parts have arrived in the country but are awaiting customs clearance.



-3-
2.2.6 Operations Facilities
The original concept was the implementation of a Wagon Monitoring System, Production
Planning and Control and the acquisition of the Computer Software. These were dropped due
to the suspension of the IDA Credit and when the credit was reactivated, the original concept
was changed in preference to track materials.
The track materials have since arrived in the country and are only awaiting customs clearance.
2.2.7 Training Fellowships
Prior to the suspension of the IDA Credit 120 man-months were undertaken against the initial
budget of 100 man-months. Out of the five (5) students who benefited, only two (2) attained the
qualification.
After the reactivation, 98 man-months were utilized on short courses as against the initial
budget of 90 man-months. The impact of this programme is yet to be felt.
2.2.8 Technical Assistance and Studies
No new technical assistance staff was recruited other than continued funding of the thirty (30)
recruited under the Third Railway Project. Thirty contracts have since expired.
In addition, funding of the implementation of accounting system packages which was a carry-
over from the Third Railway Project was provided for under this project.
As regards studies, only the Operations Improvement Study was undertaken after the
reactivation of the IDA Credit.
The following studies could not undertaken because of insufficient time:
a) Organization Restructuring and Manpower Study;
b) Operations of the CTC System;
c) Contracting Out Rehabilitation/Maintenance of Track, Buildings, Bridges and Other
Structures;
d) Materials Management System;
e) Development of Management Information System; and
f) Techno-economic Feasibility Study for Easing Grades and Flattening of Curves.
2.3 IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
2.3.1 Factors Affecting the Project
a) The project was scheduled to start on 3 July 1985 but was delayed until 7 December 1985
due to failure to finalize the on-lending agreement between GRZ and Zambia Railways and legal
opinion between GRZ and the Bank within the stipulated period of 90 days. Consequently
procurement and disbursements started fifteen (15) months late.
b) The poor response by the Bank to approve procurement and disbursement, adversely
affected the flow of materials and equipment required for the project. For instance, documents
sent on 16 December 1993 were only approved on 8 February 1994.



- 4 -
c) The failure by the Government to service the debts led to the suspension of the IDA Credit
barely seven months after the first disbursement and the African Development Bank's
intermittent suspension of the disbursements affected the project adversely.
2.3.2 Experience and Results
The overall result of the Fourth Railway Project was unsatisfactory and the main factors which
contributed to this performance were as follows:
a) More commitment and accountability on the part of Zambia Railways Management would
have reduced delays in the implementation of the Project and utilization of funds such as the
66km track renewal and the Belgian funds, respectively.
b) The delay in the credit effectiveness coupled with the suspension of disbursement between
1987 and 1993 resulted in further deterioration of the existing equipment. Consequently, targets
and objectives became unrealistic and required revision.
c) The frequent changes in top executives tended to disrupt the set priorities, thereby adversely
affecting the implementation of the project. In addition, the Project Monitoring Committee
which was in existence eventually phased out.
d) Withdrawal of exemption of duty and sales tax on railway infrastructural materials in 1991
contributed to the cashflow constraint, thereby delaying the utilization of imported materials.
e) The deliberate policy by the Zambian government to route imports through the Dar-es-
Salaam port and the use of a single clearing agent, brought about long lead times e.g. delay in
receipt of USAID financed spare parts.
f) While the acquisition of 15 new locomotives adversely affected the Company's cashflow, it
improved the availability and reliability of the fleet and eliminated costs on hired locomotives.
g) The change in Government economic policy led to further decline in traffic levels and
increase in operating costs.
2.3.3 Assessment of Results
The Company could not attain most of the targets which were set and agreed (refer to Table 1).
a) Average Locomotive Availability
After experiencing an initial decline in the locomotive availability from 65% in 1984 to 55%
in 1990, there was a steady increase from 60% in 1991 to 74% in 1994 due to various spare
parts which were received under USAID and Japanese Grant.
The commissioning of 15 new locomotives in 1993 and the sidelining of 25 bad performing
locomotives also contributed to the improvement in average availability.
b) Productivity Year Per Available Loco Per Year
Productivity declined from 92,000 loco-kilometres in 1984 to 75,000 loco-kilometres in 1993
mainly due to low traffic offerings. However, in 1994 productivity increased to 98,000 loco-
kilometres despite the decline in traffic because of the sidelining of some locomotives.



c) Average Wagon Availability
There was a marked improvement in wagon availability from 85% in 1984 to 93% in 1990
due to the acquisition of 665 wagonS during the project period. However, average
availability started declining in 1991 to 89% by 1994. The levels attained in 1990 could not
be sustained because of lack of spare parts for maintenance.
d) Average Turn-round Time of Wagons
The turn-round of wagons were redefined to take into account the following:
i) Transit Traffic-Border to Border;
ii) Export Traffic-Loading Point to Exit; and
iii) Import Traffic-Entry Point to Destination.
The set targets were not attained as illustrated in Table 1.
e) Average Wagon Load
The average wagon load of 35 tonnes for general traffic and 40 tonnes for mineral traffic was
attained.
The average wagon load for the general traffic was revised from 25 tonnes to 35 tonnes in
1988.
f) Productivity Per Available Freight Wagon Per Year
There was a decline in the index from 220,000 tonne-kilometres in 1984 to 127,000 tonne-
kilometres in 1994 because of reduced volume of traffic while the number of wagon holding
remained almost the same for much of the project period (see Tables 1 and 5).
g) Staff Productivity
The target has not been achieved. Although the traffic levels declined by 50% there has been
no significant reduction in the number of employees (see Table 4).
2.4 PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
To sustain the project, Management has formulated the Revival Plan and is in the process of
finalizing the Railway Restructuring Programme which are all aimed at making the Company
commercially viable.
2.4.1 Measures Taken
a) Reduction in subsidies on the medical scheme, staff canteen and community services.
b) Withdrawal of and restrictions on some of the conditions of service, such as telephones,
water, free rental house, electricity and house servants.
c) Reduction in fuel consumption by switching off idling locomotives and 30% cut on fuel
allocation for motor vehicles.
d) Restriction in participation in non-core business such as Agriculture Shows.
e) Sidelining 25 locomotives and 2,948 wagons.
f) Restrictions on local and foreign travel.



-6 -
2.4.2  Measures Planned
a) Increasing the traffic levels from the current 2.5 million net tonnes to 3.6 million net tonnes
by 1996 in order to break-even at the current prices rates and manpower levels.
b) Reducing manpower levels by about 2,000 employees in order to reduce costs.
c) Scrapping 1,260 wagons which are over 40 years and uneconomic to operate.
d) Commercialization of the workshop operations.
e) Improvement in the procurement of spare parts.
f) Approach Government for further capitalization of K 25 billion of loans.
g) Disposal of 1,648 excess houses.
h) Seeking support in the technical areas.
2.5 BANK PERFORMANCE
2.5.1 The Bank should not have stopped supervising the project during the suspension of
disbursements under the IDA Credit as other project components were still in progress.
2.5.2 In view of the delay in credit effectiveness, the project objectives should have been reviewed to
match with the changed circumstances.
2.5.3 After reactivating the credit, the period for the implementation was too tight in view of the rigid
Bank procurement rules.
2.6 ZAMBIA RAILWAYS PERFORMANCE
2.6.1 After the credit reactivation, the Company failed to fully utilize the facility because of the short
implementation period.
2.6.2 The Company partly failed to provide the local component for locomotives spares.
2.6.3 The Company did not comply with three of the legal covenants as follows:
a) undertaking an investment exceeding US$2 million;
b) incurring a debt; and
c) delay in submitting audited accounts for the fiscal year 1993/94.
2.7 GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA PERFORMANCE
The Government suspension of debt servicing resulted in the suspension of the IDA Credit and
the intermittent suspension of the ADB facility.
2.8 KEY LESSONS
The Key Lessons learned from the Fourth Railway Project are:



- 7 -
2.8.1 In case of a long delay in the commencement of implementation of a project or part of the
project, there is need to review the objectives and targets of a project.
2.8.2 Management commitment, accountability and staff motivation are a pre-requisite for the
successful implementation and sustainability of a project.
2.8.3 A project coordinating committee to effectively monitor the project management cycle and take
prompt decision is necessary.
2.8.4 The failure by either an agent or the Borrower to comply with the Bank's laid down guidelines
and procedures, results in delays e.g. the Belgian Grant.
2.8.5 Delayed projects lose momentum resulting in ineffective implementation.
2.8.6 To avoid delays in project implementation, co-financing of indivisible project components
should be discouraged.
2.8.7 The Company benefited from the project in terms of staff exposure to project management
techniques, skills and experience.
2.9 FUTURE OPERATIONS
In addition to make the Company commercially viable Management has formulated the Short
Term Revival Plan and the Long Term Restructuring Programme. The Revival Plan is a two year
plan aimed at improving traffic levels to 3.6 million net tonnes by the year 1996. To achieve the
objective of the Short Term Plan the following have been undertaken:
2.9.1 Adopting marketing strategic such as flexible pricing, concessional backhaul rates, rebates based
on volume commitment, and organized workshops to meet potential and existing customers.
2.9.2 Reduction in operating costs by doing away with some of the social services and other non core
business activities.
2.9.3 Reduction in manpower to levels commensurate with traffic levels.
2.9.4 Reduction in the asset base by scrapping and sidelining the surplus equipment and disposal of
obsolete and uneconomic assets.
2.9.5 The Government has been approached to participate in the restructuring of the Company by:
a) reorganizing the Company's capital structure through capitalization of some loans; and
b) exempting the Company from duty and sales tax on railways infrastructural materials.
2.9.6 Reorganizing the passenger service in order to break-even and possibly make a profit.
These measures taken by Management will be supplemented by follow-up actions as outlined in
the proposed long-term Railway Restructuring Programme.
/S/    H. SINDOWE (Acting Managing Director)



I



SELECTED OPERATING INDICATORS
Table I
ACTUAL   TARGET                                   ACTUAL
ITEM                     DESCRIPTION                          UNIT          1984      1987      1987       1988      1989      1990       1991      1992      1993       1994
Average locornotive availability.                       %            65        75         60        55        55         55        60        66         71        74
2     Productivity per available locomotive per year.  Loco - km (000)     92        95        85         85        85        74         70        76         75        98
3     Average wagon avalability.                             %             a         go        88         86        90        93         91        89        88         89
4     Average wagon turnaround time.                        Days
a) General freight   - Domestic                       Days           13         9        13         14        15        18         20        17        14         15
b) Mineral (Intermine) - Domestic                     Days           4          8         9         9         7          6         12        13        11         10
c) Transit Traflic (Border to Border)                 Days           4          4         4         4         5          7         6         5          6         6
d) Import - Detention period ol loreign
wagons on ZR lines                         Days           t0                                       15        17        18         14        15         13
a) Export
- Transit time: CB - NKP                           Days                     2          4         4         3          2         3         2          2         2
- Transit time :CB - VFB                           Days                     3          5         6         6          5         4         4          3         4
- Turn round lime: CB - DAR - CB                   Days                               40        37         36        29        25         30        32        28
- Turn round time CB - E LONDON/BEIRA - CB         Days                               25        25         29        24        19         20        23        21
5
Average Wagon Load                                   Tonns
- General FreIght                                    Tonns          25        25        30         30        37        36         34        34        36         34
- Minerals                                           Tonns          40        40         40        40        40        42         40        40        39         41
6
Productivity per treight wagon per year          Ton - km (000)     220       300       209        212       210       210        160       145       161        127
7
Stall productivity In traffic unite per year employee  Ton - km (000)  196    260       187        238       209       158       159        172       160        170
per year



;TABLE 2
TRAFFIC PERFORMANCE(1984-1994)
. . ...**.  *                               . *.... * *  *   . .    
NUMBER(MILLIONS)
20
15                  .. .....................................   .  ....... .......................................
1,.
10__
5                                . . .........
PERIOD            1984 1985   196 1987 1988   1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994
FREIGHT TONNES   *   4.80  4.@0   4.60   4.60   4.60  4.40  4.09   3.40   3.20   3650  2.60
FREIGHT TKM(X10O)*  13.12  15.33  14.61  13.66  13.66  13.42  14.44  10.81  10.25  10.74  6.63
PASSENGER             *    1.90  1.60   1.30   1.80   1.90  2.10  1.20   0.80   o.90   1.20  1.60
-~f                                                      ___ 



BALANCE SHEET AS AT THE END OF THE FINCNIAL YEARS 1964  1994              K0OD                                                                                     T      lbl 3(a)
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -AC  .k.                ..... a   Rm
ASSETS
FIXEDASSETS                                 168268       194459      367583       581728      628740       94637      1461474      262049      4I96763    177621    19426497
INTEREST IN SUBaDIARY                         6463         5574        5507         5614        9679        16006       19202        59633       U169        234694       19046
MULOBED BPANCH UNE                            4743         6456        3658
UNTARY SYSTEM ACCoCJNTS                      40807        40920       41033        41183       43105        45063       45443        45108      465760        37522        41605
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                          220279      247409       417781      606725       681524      1009926     1526119      2725439     5530692    16058537    19660570
CUFRENT ASSETS
STOCKS                                       20074       21409        54175        8606       192656      256416       314113      410616       615046     2380706      6289855
DEBTORS                                      22389       33590       132001       169306      155960      138273       501460      107U77      3503868      "677131    13695293
BANK & CASH                                    490         1746        8560       72339        99953      194043       252490       i0777?      346523     2558949      2317678
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                         42953       56745       194736      310451       446569     5U8732       1066063     1597272      4465437    13616786    22302626
UNREAUSED EXCHANGE LOSSES                    16547        10338       28679       54115        44615      127855       792727      241762       910752     4611463    11064896
TOTALASSETS                                 279779      314492      641196       973291      1174706     1726513     33669o       4564493    lo06a61    3s4667u    53026292
UABIUTIES
CURRENT UABLITIES
CREDITORS                                    52156       36051       119357      268295      372306       546769      1465560      676685     3138444    1399468"    28709698
TAXATION                                                               2661        2966        2968         2966        2966         5933       26197        38223        15041
BANK OVERDRAFTS                              10671       11154         6335        9472         1403        5601        5355       t14609      233811       148561       476232
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                    63027       47205       128553      278733       37875       555536      1493861      797427     3398452    14181672    29203171
LONG TEMA UABLITIES
LONG TEFRA LOANS                            151818       79018       314270      453437      460147       620353      156499      1476629     3474632    16254405    23763551
DEFERRED LIABIUTIES                                                                                                                            U7127        907840      1691909
TOTAL UiBILITIES                            214645      126223       442823      732170      636622      117589      3076760      2274056     750211    31343917    54876631
E0UITY
SHARE CAPITAL (AUTHORISED &ISStJED)          70000      190725       190725      17756       197756       197756      197756       197756      197756       19775        197756
PENCNG ALLOTMENT                                                       2636       20936                                           2317U8      2317840      2317U8      2317U8
GRANTS                                                                                        89241       331274      466542       56401       54591        595606      595544
RESERVES                                     (5066)      (2456)        5012       22427       50689        21594    (358169)    (8113U)        305575     2031659   (4961267)
TOTAL EGUlTY                                 U4934      186269       196373      241121      337686       550624      306129      2290437     336670      514269    (1650339)
TOTAL UABLITIES&ECJlTIES                   279779      314492       641196      973291     1174708      1726513     3386909      4584493    10906681    3646786    53026292



&
CASHfLOW STATEMENT FOR THE PERIOD I 19U - 1994)  10co                                                                                                                     Table 3(b)
:'A  JA'  A-E *t~AC                                             A                                   W0 .4:tM               #MAT
NET CASHFLOW FROM
OPERA7INGAC71VITIES                             1263       (4W           (496)       1779D7       6045        206770       1559"        545099      2212175      6111664      24259J0
RETURNS ON INVESTMENT AND
SERVIaNG OF FIMNCE
Dbidends poid                                      0            0            0            0           0            00                        0            0      (1704031     (500000)
Inlrestpaid                                   (11323)      (61001      (49262)      (506761      (60306)      174759)     (156126)      125437      1290125)    (944997)    (2673706      -
(55323)      (6500)      (49282)      (50676)     160306)       (74759)     (156126)    (125467)    (290535)    (115400)    (2773706)
TAXATION
Tax paid                                           0            0           0        (2865)       (2966        (296        (29166)           0            0        (29")       1262091
INVESTMENT ACTIVIlTES
Pyrment toacquire                             (29263)     (36250)     (518117)     1152950)    (107997)      (366400)    (33402)       (751924)   (5496933)    (7325876)   (5195304)
Ixmgible fxed eseds
hintwestinSubsidiary                           (1519)        342         (568)        5670         3865)       (5204)        3974       (1376)         2402      (152436)      178315
Mulabezi Banch Line
Unitary system accounts                          (68)       (113)        (113)        1150)      (5922)        (1978)        (360)         335     (420652)       426236        140631
Receipts Irom salem d
IxngiblefixUa assets                             65          226          269           70          459            0         1536         5434         1267         4060        35:42
NET CASH OUTFLOW FROM                         (30765)     (35793)     (182209)     (155560)    (1133251    (393562)      (329452)    (766923)   (5935966)   (704606)   (161930)
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
NET CASH (OtJTFLOW) INFLOW
BEFORE FINANaNG                               (40845)     (46702)    (231967)      (26752)      (96556)     (2624967     (376576)    (7473)           6064    (5119626)    12057945)
RtNANC2NG
Amounts received fromn th
Gownt d the Republic d Zambia                      0        3944         2636        25333        6303        242033       135266       11t959       36339        49't5          (62)
FundstorMulobezi Ine Reheb                         0           0         5732         9453        12290        24339        33660        75601           0            0             0
Loans repid                                     (983)      (1119)           0            0          133)         (36)     (70999)         140)       (1677)    (p3065)    (1771653)
Lons received                                 39528        44850       235252        52566        43679        65653      337320       297724        76796      4363510      3258711
NET CASH INFLOW FROM FINANCNG                 38545        47675       243620        67354       124239      352169       435469       493344       113460      3493944      1467003
INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIV                (2300)        973        11633        60642        3563         89692        56893     (253967)      119544      2297676      (570942)



SLUMMERISED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT FOR THE PERIOD 11984 - 1989)                                                                                                               Table 3(c)
INCOME
PASSENGERS                                    9693                     9797                    12962                    17226                    26719                     44415
GENERAL GOODS &MINERALS                      76087                    92773                   183580                   366426                   44861I                    552994
STORAGE. DEMURRAGE & OTHER                    2921                     4261                     5561                    10458                    24457                     20044
UVE STOCK                                      450                      723                     1270                     3312                      793                     2499
STAFF RENTS                                    988                     1031                     2072                     2588                     2731                     5943
MISCELLANEOUS                                 2916                     2298                     3181                     6964                    10935                     17436
TOTAL INCCME                                 93055       100.00      110881       100.00      208826       100.00      406992       100.00      514296       100.00      643331        10000
EXPENDITURE
AOMINSTRATIVE CHARGES                        27421        29.50       26178        23.60       45638        21.90       77588        19.10      174477        33.90      276192        42 90
OPERATING &JRUNNNG                           41830        45.00       42014        37.90       73366        35.20       90604        22.30      127317        24.60      162331        25 10
MAINTENANCE/TERMINAL                         20968        22.50       31799        28.70       34277        16.40       94077        23.10       97725        19.00      101299        15 70
GOODS &PASSENGER HANDLING                    10626        11.40        6699         6.00      (31112)     -14.90        31854         7.60       34954         6.60       15351         2 40
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURE                 100845       108.40      106690        96 20      122171        58.60      293923        72.20      434473        84.50      555173        83 60
OPERAnING SuRPLUS                            (7790)      -8.40         4191         360        88455       41.40       113069       27.80       79823         15.50       88158        1370
NON OPERATING EXPENOITURE
FINANCE CHARGES                              11323        1220         6100         550        50358        24.10       51245        12.60      60909         11.80    .  75250        1170
EXCHANGE LOSSES/(GAINS)                                                                        26300        13.60       49673        12.30                     O.00       50372         7.80
PROMSIONS                                      223         0.20         547         0.50                                                                                  14923         2 30
TAX                                                                       0                     2881         1.40        2968         0.70       296           0.60        29f          0 50
TOTALNONOPEXPENDITURE                        11546        12.40        6847         6.00      81519        39.10       104084       25.00       6375          12.40      143511        22.30
NET INCOM~E                                 (19336)     -20.80       (2458)       -2.20        4936         2.40        8985         2.20       15940         3.10      (55353)       -860



b
SJMMERISED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT FOR THE PERFO 11W9O - 1i                                                                                                         Table 3c CaId
INCOME
PASSENGERS                                  39838                    63053                   160439                  241094                   905484
GENERAL GOODS & MINERALS                  1306208                  2945880                  5845804                16530929                 2348078
STORAGE. DEMURRAGE & OTHER                  50830                   138501                  281139                   438080                   8701U4
UVE STOCK                                   11120                    22050                                                                    204381
STAFF RENTS                                  4863                     6477                                                                    209161
MISCELLANEOUS                               38389                   114497                   110051                  364540                   904933
TOTAL INCOMUE                             1451248       100 00     3310526       100.00    6397433       100.00    17574643       100.00    265241         100.00
EXPENOITURE
AOMINISTRATIVE CHARGES                     353169        24 30      942540        28.50    2847735        44.50     780724         44.40    14029629        52.60
OPERATING & RJNNNG                         410031        28.30     1383969       41.80     1702766        26.60     6039060        34.40    7387635       . 27.80
MAINTENANCE/TERMINAL                       168779        11.50      531771        16.10     854749        13.40     2490185        14.20     4071027        15.30
GOOOS & PASSENGER HANDLING                  36519         2.50       84335         2.50                                                      1294061        4.90
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURE                968498        66.60     2942615       68.90     5405250        94.50    1634696         93.00    26732572       100.70
OPERATING SURPLUS                          484750        33.40     367913        11.10      992163        15.50     1227674         7.00    (202331)       -0.80
NON OPERATING EXPENDITURE
FINANCE CHARGES                            156126        10.80      219623        6.80      324329         5.10     1198459         6.80    3033391        11.40
EXCHANGE LOSSES/(GAINS)                    718017        49.30      704599       21.30    (185046)        -2.90   (2767296)      -15.70     3618229        13.60
PROUSONS                                    29750         2.00
TAX                                          2966         0.20        2966        0.10       20264         0.30       14992        0.10        5108         0.02
TOTAL NON OP EXPENDITURE                   904659        62.40      92716        26.00      159547         2.50   11553845)       -3.90      658726        25.04
NETINCCME                                 (420109)      -28.90    (559275)      -18.90      632636        13.00     2761519        15.60  1(659057)       -25.80



ANALYSS OF OPERATING EXPENDITURE                                                                                                                                                    Table 3(dl
TOTAL REVENUE                                                                                       I E     m X1100.00
EXPENIXT3URE
SALARIESANDALLOWANCES                        120314        18.70      298617        20.58      636481         19.23     1382094        21.60     3816870         21.72     9434805         35 49
OTHER PERSONNEL RELATED COSTS                 34428         5.35       57613          3.97      154690         4.60      821232        12.64      1415345         8 05     3691303         14 64
RUELCOSTS                                     58076         9.03      110342          7.60      326260         9.86      709481        11.09      164U934         9.38     2633611          991
NETINTERCHANGECOSTS                          119614        18.59      133071         9.17      1145055        34.59      605186         9.46     3220716         18.33     1191987          448
OTHER OPERATING COSTS                          3667         0.57       14300         0.99        16735         0.51      174787         2.73      538041          3 06      792773          2 98
ADMIN MGT & OTHER GEN EXPENSES                76687        11 92      153738         10 59     481322         14 54      597027         9.33      802895          4.57     2372791          892
REPAIRS&MAINTENANCE                           71817        11.16      160692        11.07       111574         3.37      538102         8.41     1801762         10.25     2811837         1058
FINANCE CHARGES                               75250        11.70      156126        10.76      104363          3.15      324328         5.07     1198459         6.80      3033391        11 41
EXCHANGELOSS/(GAIN)                          50372          783       716017        4934       763457        23f0        185046        -2.89   (2767296)       -15.75    30618299         1361
DEPRECATION                                  73536         11.43       67875         4.68      126900          3.83      286181         4.47     1457736         8 29      1852603         6 97
PROMISONS                                     14923         2.32       29750         2 05       78004          2.36      291161         4.55     1644648         9.38      1800662         6 7?
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                    698684        108.60     1668391       128.74     386637         116.80     5544533        ".67    14776132         64.09    33434192        125 75



b
MANPOWER STATISTICS (1084-1664)
A MANPOWER STRENGTH  DEPARTMENTAL ANALYSIS                                                                                                                Table 4
110041
19U4      1tos        toss      1097       logo       10s0        1000       tnt        1092        9102     (S1p1)
Opwlations                                  2303       2753       2620       2617       2467       2545       2605       205         2578       2476       2440
Finance and Accounts                         427        490        561        552        547        115        546        6s         447        4U         467
Adntin and Penonndl                          61S        895        954       1060       1169       1233        1374      14u8        1361       126       1224
Tchniccl                                    4306       4108       4004       4231       360        3767      3U04        3656       3639       3543       2606
TOTAL                           6_54                   6335       S359       84G9       7576       6l00        41 9      6544       6025       7753       7737
3 ANALYSIS OF CHANGE IN THE MANPOWER STREfNGTH (19U64-1 tts
Total Number ot Employees at the beginning  3465       2354       6335       8359       6469       7676       6060       9419       6544       6025       7753
of the year                                           I_I
 Engangements                                                                                     765        a1l        45         129         n          7
ISo       269        303        707        293
t Transfcr to Permanent Establishments                                                              Is        125        112         43         6         475
- Spar*tlUona/Wadag.                        (291)      (304)     (270)      (597)      (64)       (590       (607)      (442)      (667)      (427)      (40,
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT                *394       6335       6359       6469       7678       606o        419       6544       6025       7753       7737
THE END OF TIlE YEAR
C ANALYSIS OF SEPARATION AND ENGAGE M4ENTS
Separaton/Wastage
Operations                                77         93         *1         iIt       274   |     6     |   17a        126        10611      153        136
FinanceandAccounts                         lo         10        12         110        160        75         139        64         136        40        103
Admin and Personnel                        71         56         62        126        10g        12t        136        104       209         124        112
Technical                                 126        145        124        171       252        233        173        146         144       120        147
TOTAL                                     291        304        279        507       334        S00        607        442   |      7 |   437           406
__                           _                       -    1  It- 1-111
t)Engsgmemntc                                160       235        303        707        293  7|      5 721               455        125        03
Transfer to Permanent Establishments                                                                         25        1 2        43



S
SELECTED ASSETS STATISTICS: 1984-1994                                                                                                                                      Table5
______         YEARS                                    ___
ITE M                   DESCRIFPION                      UNIT       1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994
Locornotives
a) .U20C (mainine)                                 No.       68        68        68         68        59        59        59        56        56         56        51
b) .UI5C (shunt)                                   No.       12        12         12        12        12        12        12        12        12         12        12
c) .GT36 (main line)                              No.                                                                                                    15        15
d) CMI (shunt)                                    No.                                                                                          2         2         2
2     Passenger Coaches                                 No.        84        84        64         U4       62         62        12        82        60        75         75
3    Wagons                                             No.       5866      5682      5684      5913      6134      6158      6019       6019      5675      5328      5306
(Revenue Generating)
4    Track
a) .Rout. length                                  km        1273      1273      1273      1273      1273      1273       1273      1273      1273      1273      1273
'b) .Track upgrade                                km         54        82        130       157       16S       240       289       305       322        325       325
c) Maintenance
Wooden sleeper replacement (cumulative)
- Target                                       No.      20000     40000      60000    80000    110000    16D000    210000   310000    410000    510000    610000
- Actual                                       No.      15000    24000       34000     44000     6000      67000    102000    123000    164000    208000   212000
- Backlog                                      No.       5000      16000    26000      3600      4400      730       106000    1 700o    246000    302000    390000



ECONOMIC DATA
_______  _______                                     ________            Table   6
ITEM                   DESCrIPTIOIN                    UNIT      1984      198S     1986      1987      19o       1989     1990      1991      1992      1993      1994
1    Intbtion                                          %                           54.8      47.0     54.0      12.6     109.0      93.4     191.3    187.1      34.7
2    GDP at curent prices                           K (mrilion)   4931   7072     12963    19779    30021    55151    113340   219553   568730   1440663
3    Agricuituo GDP by kind of Economic Actity at crsent
pricos                                        K (Million)           925      1578      2180     5056      10562    20631    34518    121132   393930
4    Mamuactuxng GOP by kind of Economic Actvity at
cur nt prices                                 K (Mllion)           1617      2936      5S48     9496      17090    36107    72786    169048   35003
5    Minirg GDP by kind d Economic Ac*Ay at cwi ont
prices                                        K (Milon)           1102      2355     2689      3155      772      10217    18230    31820    142957
- Coppr PRoduction                             Tons    523300   479446   459172   483000   422200   450707   441174   399400   400600   400000
- Cobalt Production                            Tons      3472      4359     4344      4479      5055      4489     4615      4500      4700      4221
6    GDP at currnt price
Transxt and communications (overall)          K (Million)          342       594       $40      1207      2861      5501     12093    39106    m82
- Road                                       K (Milion)             96       167      249       356       ee1      1972      4607      470M     20016
- Rao                                        K (M1ion)             103       182      244       342      T79       1331      2541      624      15972
7    Annual Avwge Exchaig Rate I US  -Kwach_          (K)       27       27         7        9         a        13        31        6S       542       563       670



LOANICREDT DISBURSEMENT (US $000) CUMULATIVE (1964-1994)                                                                                                                   Table 7(e)
fIEM                  OONORWFUNDEDBY                                19|5      196e      1967      1966      1969       1990      1991      1992      1993       1994      1995
I    IDA     - Estimate                                           500       5500      17000     20000   Suspend  Suspqnd                (200)    17500       17500
- Actuals                                                      240       761       1351      1930      4115      4186       4206      5737      12120
- Disb: %                                           0.00%     4.36%     4.48%     6.76% I                                            32.78%    69.26%S
2     BELGIUM - Estimate_ -                                                   -         -         -         -         -          _         _         -        4000      5100
- Actuals                                           -         -          -         -         _        1833      3166      3196      3354      3354       4854
- Disb: %                                                     -         -          -         -              -       -      - _3.85%    95.18%
3    USAID    - Estimate                                            -         -         -         -         _- _                ___                          10000
- Actuals                                           -         -         -        1148      162      2830       3716      9961      9961      9961
- Disb: %                                                     _-                             -                   -         -         -       99.61%
4    SIDA      - Esimatf                                           _          -              -              -         -         -         -          -       5200
- Actuals                                          -         _        1444      I645      1645       1845      1845      2403      2403      2403
- Disb: %                                          -         -         -         -               -         -         -         -      _    46.21%
5     KFW      - Estimate                                          -         _-                   -         -         -         -         -         -        5200
- Actuals                                          -         _          3        243      2395      2399       2399      2399      2923      3154
- Diub: %                                          -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -      60.65%
6     ADB      - Emstcimt                                         1460     10730      19000     20000     20000     20000     20000     20000    20000      20000      20000
- Actuals                                               -         -              91       6950      9297      14616     14964     15611     22582      25122
- Disb: %                                          -                                        -         -         -         -         -      112.91%   125.61%
7    ZR       - Esimate                                            -         -         -          -         -         -         -         _         _        1099
- Actals                                           -        875       2170      3021      4081      4061      4751      6660       666       680
. .     - ~Disb: %                                          _         _         _          _         _         _         _         _                  2.37%
1.11F       ' 1T   r- 1      13.4G
NOTES:   1 IDA aedh was reduced tom SDR 20.5 million lo SDR 12.5 millIon In 1992 an equinln olf USS 17.5 milllornate exchangerate of US 1.4 bel S1DA
2  ADB Loan - The actual foreign cost ncreased ss  result of cwrerncy fluctuations.
3  SIDA - The correct estimated shoud have been US$ 3.052 mililon agaist US$ 5.200. as reported In ft SAR
4  KFW - The actual foreign cost Increased as r esult of curcncy fluctuations nd provisn of addWtonl undg of DM I rnllon in 1990.
5  BELGIAN GRANT - Incrased by accrued Interest ol USS 1.1 mllion.
6  Additional costs ki 1995 will wie lom fcilitie tlat ae not hflly ckawn and local txes.



PROJECT FINANCING (US $000)
_________  _________  _________                    Table    7(b
ESTIMATED                                                         EXPECTED FUTURE COST
SOURCE   LOCAL  ORIGINAL    REVISED  REVISED  ACTUAL   FOREIGN
COST   FOREIGN       FOREIGN  TOTAL    LOCAL    COST         TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
COST        COST                COST
IDA                   20000      17500     17500               12120     12120
ADB                   20000      20000    20000                22582    22582                2540      2540
SIDA                  5152       5152      5152                2403      2403
USAID                 5000       10000    10000                9961      9961
BELGIUM               4000       4000      4000                3354      3354                1500      1500
KfW                   1600       1600      1600                3154      3154
ZRL        16300      10999      10999    27299    11464       6860      18324     3190                3190
TOTAL      16300      66751      69251    85551      11464    60434    71898       3190      4040      7230



PROJECT COSTS (US $000)
______________________  _________                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table    7(c)
ORIGINAL ESTIMATES   REVISED                             ACTUAL                  EXPECTED FUTURE COST
COMPONENTS                                  EST.      ESTIMATED
LOCAL  FOREIGN       FOREIGN REVISED        LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
COST   COST          COST    TOTAL          COST    COST
Track                          700        5200       8900        9600        1175      9849      11024      2900      2300       5200
Signalling and Telecomm.      1800        9140       8400       10200       2160       9543      11703      50         180       230
Rollingstock                  1900        7650       7650        9550       1724       5079      6803
Workshop Equipment/Vehicle     400        1200       5370        5770        425      4857       5282       50        1500      1550
Spare Parts                   3400       21000      23413       26813       2905      24070     26975                  60        60
Operating Facilities           600        2200       4200        4800       1600      4461       6061       190                  190
Training                       700        2700       1100        1800       425        591       1016
Technical Assistance          1400       5200        4100       5500        1050      1984       3034
Price Contingencies           5400       12361       6118       11518
TOTAL                         16300      66751      69251       855 1      11464      60434     71898      3190      4040       7230
i~~~~~~~~j



RELATED BANK CRBDIT/LOANS
Table 8
LOAN/CREDIT                   PURPOSE                     YEAR OF            STATUS
TITLE                                                     APPROVAL
1 Preceding
Operations
Third Railway    The project was required to avoid    16 06 80   The Project was completed
Project          a deterioration in ZR's operations                 in 1986, two years behind
and reduction in its transport                    schedule.
capacity. The project was to
assist in modernizing the rolling-
stock fleet and increase its
utilisation and thereby its
effective capacity to handle
expected growth in traffic up to
1986.
2 Following
Operations
Railway          To commercialise the operation of   Proposed    The draft project profile
Restructuring    the Company and to improve the        for         has been prepared by
Programme        track, signalling and                 implement-  Zambia Railways
telecommunications systems,          ation        Management.  It is
workshop and data processing         during       awaiting appraisal.
facilities and to provide for        1995-99
training and technical assistance.



- STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Table 9
STUDY                     PURPOSE AS DEFINESAJNDEFINED   STATUS                       IMPACT
I Component Rehablitation    The study was to identify suitable parts The study could not be  There has been no impact as th
that could be manufactured locally, on undertaken due to suspension  study was not undertakon
priority basis thereby assisting ZR to  of the Crefit Facility.
reduce future requirements of loreign
exchange.
2 Operational Improvement   Improw yard operations, the    The redefined study was under- Recommendations which were
circulaton and transit of wagons at   taken and completad in  accepted are being under-
border stations.                September 1993 under the   taken and are yielding resutts.
reactivated credit.
3 Techno-economic          Determine cost/benefits of easing  Although terms of reference    Nil
Feasiblity Study for    grades and flattening curves in the    had boon prepared, the study
Easing Grades and       Lusaka-Kafue sections.           did not take off due to the time
and Flantening of Curves                                  ctor
4 Operations of the CTC    Determine whether Zambia Railways  The gtudy was not undertaken  Nil
needs to keep the present CTC system due to inadequate time.
or replace it by some lss sophisticate
system and wheter mairtenance
should continue being undertaken
in - hous or be contracted out
5 Contracting out mainternnce Determine the economies of contractini The study could not be under- Nil
and Rehabiitation of track    out maintnance and rehabiliation of  taken due to inadequate time.
and other infrastructure    track vis-a-vie doing these In-house
6 Development of Management Development and Implement      The udy could not be under- Although the study was under-
Informtion System       Management tnformation SyRem,    taken under the IDA Cedt   taken, It has not been
tunds but was carried out with  implemented due to lack of
Banks' own funds and was    tunds.
completed.
7 Implementation of Materials  Deelop and Implement an etive   Could not be undertaken  Study findings requim
Management System       stores and accounting sysem.     but an In-house study has    implmentation.
been undertaken and
8 Manpower and Organ siation  Determine Ided - gawseton sucture S9tudy undetaken in-houe
Structute               and manpor levls commnsnurde  and Is sil in progresa.
with existng evels of ttrac.



LEGAL COVENANTS                                                                                                   Tabb 10
CONVENANT                 REVISED
AGREEMENT            SECTION TYPE               STATUS   DATE       DESCRPTION OF CONVENANT          COMMENTS
1 Joint Project      4.01      Accounts/Audit     C       N/A      ZR shall maintain records adequate to
re    in accordance with tonsistently
mainttined appopripate accounbng.
practices i its operations and financial
cndition.
2 Joint Pro ect      4.02(a)   Accounts/Audit     C       N/A      ") ZR shall have its accounts and
financial stalem*nts for each fiscal
year audited in actordamne with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by
independent Auditors acceptsble to
the Associaion.
CP               i) Fumbeh to the Associstion as coon  ZR has bean submitting the
as avalable, but in any case not   cortified accounts over the
Ilter than six months after the  pedt yerws athough with
and of each such yaw: -       some delays.
a) ced   copies of its financial
state2ments f such yea as
so audited; and
b) the report of such Audit by the
said Auditors, of such seope
and in such details as the
Assocition shal have
reasonably requested.
C      N/A       i Furnish to the Association such
other infrm ation   ewning said
acounts, nancial statements.
records and expenditures, as wai
as the audit therefore, as
Assocmiaon sha toom tirmne to
time r_esonably requesL        _
3 Joint Proete        4.02(b)   Accounts/Audit    C       N/A          Maintain in aceordance wth Section
4.02(a) separato records and
accounts renectrg such
expe nditures with reapet to which
withdrawal aro requested torn the
Credi Account on the babs of
statements of expenditure.
C      N/A       C) Retain untl one yea alfter the
ckoing date, al records (contbacts
orders, invoices, bits, receipts and
eler doeumnents) idencing such
empendinire.
C      WA         ) Enable Ot Aaotlebn
repreeentaives, to examie tweh
reords; and
CP     N/A       v Ensure that such sepaate accounts Athough Annual Audi havo
we incihuded in the Annual Audit   been done no separato
earid to in para 4.02(a) and tht opinion by tho Auditors
tho report therefre contains in    was expressed.
resped of such aedate accounts,
a s,parate opinion by the satd
Auditrs as to whether the proceed
d the Credit wthdra in respect
of such expenditures have been
used btr the purpose for which
_ _werth  wre provided.
4 Joint Projet        4.03     Financial           NC      N/A       Fromh ot date  reof until compltion  ZR purchasd IS lecos at
of the proect. ZR shall not undetke  about US00U01l without
anyh vestment beyond those intuided clearance tom the batn.
in the project setimated to in the
aggregat  In any givn yea  more than
the equaletm (USS2.00M) without the
I______                    Inoprm approval of the Associabons.
S Joint Projet        4.04      Fhiancial          NC      N/A       Except as the Association shall agre, ZR incurred a debt to
ZR ehtall nt ineur any debt unles the  fifl the contract for
not rnue o  ZR for the flcal year or purchasaot llocos.
for twev consective months
immediately proceoding the data of
I_suth incurence.



\} 22<          24-                         ~~~~~                                   ~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~26-  218.         T,                           342
.                   ~~Z A M B I A                                                                c                                             _
\                  ~~~~~~~~TRUNK AND MAIN IROADS  RIVRS                                         Wh.l-qo                                              +
>Wt ~~~~~~~RAfLROADS                             PR09TNCE BOUNDARfES twm       
-ao"  \              o~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES    -*INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      j              a0a                                                   : 
.         i)  ~~~~PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                ~<5                                                \    \ 
NATIONAL CAPITALj                                                             |                                                                r 
\~~~~~~                                    A I*    R E                              MNA          ^O>         
A N G O L A                   )j<<W                                                                        _ <                         tLnal    
(~~                         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  . g.lul: '\ 0W,          8       ,                   
r      i         r            S                             ; 4    h                   j Ser>;                                      ){                      ;  w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OL
j~~~~~~~LkI M     C                                 ,                                                                                         0 Z.  A M    Z I Q   R E\r  3          ,
~~~~~~aa~ MEONGT                                                                                                                          H:or ,  Z A MBI R E <
\.  <  SjMulobezl PembE / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.Z    M BABWENAM IBIA  8C5s _/
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Im  s*9J5o    nl 2bO   210KILOME1ERS5}  SIo
_ _ _ ~~~~~~~~NAMIBIA                          .            NGSTONE                                              /                                              nldmnotl eerfslryeeoOot noelSOUTff AFRICA h
22:  /<         '        s         2 B'O-TS WA N A \         2;vn









; : r   j                         4s   la    . l
D .  .              i                                       -          i':              ,,,          .- -1 ,,
i      i. i  I    i      -1 m : I
>        . 1    A  .     .   I    i



