OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1575 ZA
DOCUMENTS
Joint Project Agreement
(Fourth Railway Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ZAMBIA INDUSTRIAL AND MINING CORPORATION LIMITED
and
ZAMBIA RAILWAYS LIMITED
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1575 ZA
JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           1   ru               , 1985, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), ZAMBIA INDUSTRIAL and MINING CORPORATION LIMITED
(hereinafter called ZIMCO) and ZAMBIA RAILWAYS LIMITED (herein-
after called ZR).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date here-
with between the Republic of Zambia (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 20,500,000) on terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement but only on condition that ZIMCO and
ZR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower also intends to contract from other
sources loans, credits and grants to assist in financing the
Project;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ZR, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to ZR on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS ZIMCO and ZR, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ZIMCO and ZR declare their commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway
management practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to ZR shall be governed
by the provision of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ZR undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to ZR by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ZR to replace or repair such goods.
(b) ZR shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to ZR by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. In order to assist ZR in the project implemen-
tation, and in the organization, management and planning of all
training activities, ZR shall employ consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 1981."
Section 2.05. (a) ZR shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿-3-
(b) ZR shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the
Association's   representatives  to  visit   the  facilities   and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds; and (iv) submit to the Association Quarterly Progress
Reports, covering, inter alia, the following aspects: (A)
progress of the Project with cost data; (B) progress on training
and technical assistance; (C) ZRIs financial performance; and (D)
ZR's performance in meeting operational targets shown in Sched-
ule 2 of this Agreement.
(c) Upon the award by ZR of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ZR and the
Association, ZR shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by ZR, ZIMCO and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Joint Project Agreement, and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) ZR shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of ZR and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. ZR shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association


﻿-4-
shall otherwise agree, ZR shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ZR shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ZR shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ZR of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ZR
Section 3.01. ZR shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and railway management practices under the supervi-
sion of qualified and experienced management assisted by compe-
tent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ZR shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
railway management practices.
Section 3.03. ZR shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ZR shall take all action necessary to achieve the opera-
tional targets set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ZR shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. (a) ZR shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested;
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(b) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, ZR shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the


﻿proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.03. From the date hereof until the completion of
the Project, ZR shall not undertake any investment beyond those
included in the Project estimated to cost in the aggregate in any
given year more than the equivalent of two million dollars
($2,000,000), without the prior approval of the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall agree, ZR
shall not incur any debt unless the net revenue of ZR for the
fiscal year, or for the twelve consecutive months immediately
preceding the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater,
shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement
for each succeeding fiscal year on all debt of ZR, including the
debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The term    "Debt" means any indebtedness of ZR
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into;
(iii) The term "net revenue" means the difference be-
tween: (A) the sum of revenue from all sources
related to operations, adjusted to take account of
ZR's tariffs in effect at the time of the incur-
rence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve-month period to which such
revenue relates, and net non-operating income;
and (B) the sum of all expenses related to opera-
tions, including administration, adequate main-
tenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
cash operating charges and interest and other
charges on debt.


﻿-7-
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the dif-
ference between: (A) revenue from all sources
other than those related to operations; and (B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenue in
(A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of payments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of Kwacha,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing law-
ful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Obligations of ZI1CO
Section 5.01. In fulfillment of its obligations under this
Agreement ZIMCO: (i) agrees with a'.l the obligations of ZR set
forth in this Agreement; (ii) shall cause ZR to perform such
obligations in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement;
(iii) shall take, or cause to be taken, all actions necessary or
appropriate to enable ZR to perform such obligations; and (iv)
shall provide or arrange the necessary finance as and when
required by ZR to maintain the operations of ZR at least at the
level of the previous year.
Section 5.02. (a) ZIMCO shall take, or cause to be taken,
from time to time, all measures required on its part in order to
enable ZR to adjust freight and other tariffs and to enable ZR to
carry out its obligations under the Joint Project Agreement.
(b) ZIMCO shall, not later than June 30, 1985, approve a
capital increase for ZR by Kwacha 138 million, or such other
amount as the Association may approve.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. (a) ZIMCO shall take all measures necessary to
enable ZR at all times to earn and maintain revenue levels suffi-
cient to cover all working expenses (before depreciation), taxes,
debt service charges of principal and interest, and 20% of ZR's
total investment program; and (b) to this end, ZIMCO shall make
an annual review of ZR's operational results and shall approve
adequate tariff increases and/or other measures necessary to
achieve the required cash flow.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, ZIMCO and ZR thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a   date  five   years  after  the   date  of  this
Agreement.
(b)  If  the Development Credit Agreement     terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ZIMCO and ZR of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ZIMCO:
Director General
Zambia Industrial and
Mining Corporation Limited
P.O. Box 30090
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                    Telex:
ZIMCO                             ZA 40790
Lusaka
For ZR:
Managing Director
Zambia Railways Limited
P.O. Box 80935
Kabwe
Zambia
Cable address:                 Telex:
ZAMRAIL                         43110
Kabwe


﻿- 10 -
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ZIMCO and ZR may be taken or executed by
the Director General of ZIMCO or the Managing Director of ZR,
respectively, or such other person or persons as the Director
General of ZIMCO or Managing Director of ZR shall designate in
writing, and ZIMCO and ZR shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/'            ' a      V,    <'
Regional VicPr    ident
Eastern and Southern Africa
ZAMBIA INDUSTRIAL AND MINING CORPORATION
LIMITED
B y .CI
Authorized Representative
ZAMBIA RAILWAYS LIMITED
Byuthore                       R
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Zambia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereof.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Direct contracting procurement procedures as described in
paragraph 3.5 of Part III of the Guidelines may be adopted in
those cases in which the Borrower can show to the satisfaction of
the Association that the goods to be procured are clearly
established manufacturer's parts.
2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less,
up to a maximur, of $1,000,000 equivalent in total, may ba
procured on the basis of limited international bidding procedures
as described in paragraph 3.2 of Part III of the Guidelines. Such
procedures will involve obtaining at least three price quota-
tions.
D.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for the procurement of
equipment, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 12 -
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for the purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Operational Targets
Objectives
FY 1987      FY 1988
1.   Average diesel locomotive avail-
ability (%)                                75         75
2.   Productivity per available loco-
motive per year (locomotive-km '000)       95        105
3.   Average wagon availability (%)             85         90
4.   Average turn-around for wagons (days):
(a) General freight domestic               10         9
(b) Minerals domestic                       7         6
(c) Transit traffic border-to-border        4         4
(d) Export/Import in Zambia                10         9
5.   Average wagon load (tonnes):
(a) General freight                        25        25
(b) Minerals                               40        40
6.   Productivity per available
freight wagon per year (tonne-km '000)    260        300
7.   Staff productivity ('000 traffic
units* per employee)                      230        260
*    Tonne-km plus passenger-km.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


