                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003317



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IBRD-74790 TF-56734)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.0 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                        FOR A

                          SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT

                                    March 18, 2015




Social Protection and Labor Global Practice
Central America Country Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)
           Currency Unit = Panamanian Balboa
                      1.00 = US$ 1
                    US$ 1.00 = PB 1
                    FISCAL YEAR

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCT       Conditional Cash Transfers
CGR       Contraloria General de la Republica (National Audit Unit)
EO        Organizaciones Extrainstitucionales (External Organizations)
GOP       Government of Panama
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IPP       Indigenous Peoples Plan
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MEDUCA    Ministry of Education
MIDES     Ministry of Social Development
MINSA     Ministry of Health
MIS       Management Information System
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
PAISS+N   Paquete de Atención Integral de Servicios de Salud +Nutrición (Basic
          Health and Nutrition Services Coverage Expansion Package)
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QEA       Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
RO        Red de Oportunidades (Network of Opportunities)
RUB       Registro Único de Beneficiarios (Single Beneficiary Registry)
SIL       Specific Investment Lending
       Vice President: Jorge Familiar
    Country Director: Humberto Lopez
    Practice Manager: Margaret Grosh (Acting)
Project Team Leader: Edmundo Murrugarra
   ICR Team Leader: Gonzalo Reyes Hartley
                                                  PANAMA
                                           Social Protection Project



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 38
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                   Social Protection
Country:               Panama                Project Name:
                                                                   Project
Project ID:            P098328               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-74790,TF-56734
ICR Date:              03/18/2015            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument: SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                   PANAMA
Original Total
                    USD 24.00M           Disbursed Amount: USD 22.91M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 24.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Social Development (MIDES), Ministry of Health
(MINSA)
Financiers and Other External Partners: Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)

B. Key Dates
                                                                         Revised / Actual
    Process             Date            Process          Original Date
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept
                   07/13/2006       Effectiveness:        02/26/2008       02/26/2008
Review:
Appraisal:         04/09/2007       Restructuring(s):                      12/09/2013
                                    Mid-term
Approval:          07/26/2007                             05/09/2011       05/14/2011
                                    Review:
                                    Closing:              06/30/2012       09/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Moderate
Bank Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                    Moderately                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                    Satisfactory                           Unsatisfactory
Quality of          Moderately         Implementing        Moderately
Supervision:        Satisfactory       Agency/Agencies:    Satisfactory
Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower   Moderately
Performance:           Satisfactory           Performance:       Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                      QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                                     Rating
     Performance                              (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time            No                                        None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                              Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                         Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                          39                   39
Health                                                     38                   38
Other social services                                      23                   23




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                     14                  14
Child health                                                14                  14
Indigenous peoples                                          14                  14
Nutrition and food security                                 29                  29
Social safety nets                                          29                  29

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                     At ICR                     At Approval
Vice President:          Jorge Familiar                 Pamela Cox
Country Director:        J. Humberto Lopez              Jane Armitage
Practice
                         Margaret Ellen Grosh           Helena G. Ribe
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:     Edmundo Murrugarra             Manuel Salazar
ICR Team Leader:         Gonzalo Reyes Hartley
ICR Primary Author:      Gonzalo Reyes Hartley
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project development objectives were: (1) improve the management and operation of
the conditional cash transfer (CCT) program to enhance its effectiveness in reaching the
poorest and indigenous groups; (2) provide beneficiaries with an incentive framework to
increase their participation in the CCT program, which would boost their demand for
education and maternal and infant health services; (3) strengthen the supply of nutrition
and child growth promotion interventions in the indigenous areas of the Red de
Oportunidades (RO), (comarcas); and (4) enhance government capacity to develop
coherent and efficient social sector policies and interventions on the basis of evidence.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

Project Development Objectives were not revised.

   (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                     Original
                                                       Formally        Actual Value
                                     Target Values
                    Baseline                           Revised         Achieved at
 Baseline Value                      (from
                    Value                              Target          Completion or
                                     approval
                                                       Values          Target Years
                                     documents)
 Indicator: Percent of distributed cash transfers received by households in the quintile 1
 and 2.
 Value
 quantitative or N/A                80%                             92.5%
 qualitative
 Date achieved    2008              2008                            2013
 Comments         Source: 2013 Household Survey.
 (incl         %
 achievement)


 Indicator: Percentage of households living in indigenous jurisdictions receiving
 transfers (as a share of total number of households in indigenous jurisdictions)
 Value
 quantitative or 50%                70%                              69%
 qualitative
 Date achieved      2008            2012                             2014
Comments            This indicator reached 70 percent in 2010, but subsequently declined,
(incl          % possibly due to outmigration from indigenous areas.
achievement)
Indicator: Percentage of RO beneficiary children 4 to 17 years old who are enrolled and
attend school (in compliance of their education co-responsibility).
Value
quantitative or 50%                    90%                               91.8%
qualitative
Date achieved       2008               2012                              2014
Comments            The source for the actual value is the Impact Evaluation report, which
(incl %             collected information on beneficiary children attending school through a
achievement)        representative survey. System-wide verification of co-responsibilities was
                    not possible using administrative information.
Indicator: Quality of program measured by share of beneficiaries who know their rights
to access services and their co-responsibilities.
Value
quantitative or N/A                    70%                               76%
qualitative
Date achieved       2008               2013                              2013
Comments             The indicator further increased to 79 percent in 2014. The measurement
(incl %             is based on family visits made by social workers who inform beneficiaries
achievement)        of their rights and co-responsibilities
Indicator: Reduction of chronic malnutrition prevalence among children under 2 years
old, registered in the PAISS+N in the comarcas.
Value
quantitative or N/A                    5p.p.              4p.p.          N/A
qualitative
Date achieved       2008               2011               2012           2014
Comments            The source for this indicator was the Impact Evaluation of health
(incl %             interventions. However, it wasn’t possible to achieve a sample size of
achievement)        children in this age group large enough to produce a robust estimate of
                    this impact.
Indicator: Proportion of bi-monthly payments based on a complete cycle of co-
responsibilities verification and application of sanctions
Value
quantitative or 0%                     75%                               N/A
qualitative
Date achieved       2008               2008                              2014
Comments            Due to lack of inter-institutional coordination and availability of fully
(incl %             functional MIS, system-wide verification of co-responsibilities was not
achievement)        possible using administrative information.
Indicator: Percentage of children under 2 years old registered in the PAISS+N program
benefiting from the strengthened health care package in the comarcas.
Value
quantitative or 0%                  90%                                90%
qualitative
Date achieved     2008              2012                               2011
Comments
(incl %            Source: Bi-annual Progress Report, Ministry of Health
achievement)
Indicator: Additional coverage of pregnant women by PAISS+N receiving no less than
3 prenatal controls, amongst pregnant women in the comarcas.
Value
quantitative or 60%                 85%                                69%
qualitative
Date achieved     2008              2012                               2014
Comments           This indicator had already reached 74 percent in 2011, close to the target
(incl         % value of 80 percent for that year, but it declined to 69 percent in 2014,
achievement)      probably associated with delays in contracting processes.
Indicator: Organigram defining MIDES restructuring and strengthening at central and
local level
Value
quantitative or                     Implementation                     Achieved
qualitative
Date achieved     2008              2013                               2013
Comments
                  This indicator was achieved on time, attaining design of the organizational
(incl         %
                  structure in 2011, development in 2012 and implementation in 2013.
achievement)
Indicator: Specific Sections of the operational manual cover program operation in
indigenous areas
Value
quantitative or                                                        Achieved
qualitative
Date achieved     2008              2012                               2014
Comments
(incl         %
achievement)
Indicator: Proposal for reorganization and rationalization of social spending developed
Value
quantitative or                                                        Not Achieved
qualitative
Date achieved     2008              2012
 Comments           This activity was not carried since the Social Cabinet was not fully
 (incl %           functional.
 achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                    Original          Formally        Actual Value
                  Baseline          Target Values     Revised         Achieved at
 Baseline Value
                  Value             (from approval    Target          Completion or
                                    documents)        Values          Target Years
 Indicator: Share of jurisdictions covered by the RO with Technical support teams for
 the accompaniment of families
 Value
 quantitative or 0%                 100%                          66%
 qualitative
 Date achieved    2008              2013                              2013
 Comments        The coverage of social workers reached 389 out of a total of 586
 (incl        % jurisdictions that have RO beneficiaries. Source: Progress Report of Family
 achievement)   Support
 Indicator: Share of education service providers trained for RO (Ministry of Education
 personnel from central offices, provincial offices and schools)
 Value
 quantitative or 60%                  100%                            100%
 qualitative
 Date achieved      2008              2011                            2013
 Comments           Annual measurement reported by the Ministry of Education.
 (incl         %
 achievement)
 Indicator: Share of health service providers trained for RO (MINSA personal from
 central offices, provincial offices and health care providers)
 Value
 quantitative or 60%                  100%             0%             100%
 qualitative
 Date achieved      2008              2011                            2011
 Comments
 (incl         % Annual measurement reported by Ministry of Health
 achievement)
 Indicator: Mechanism of complaints in operation (percentage of complaints and claims
 resolved in a timely manner)
 Value
 quantitative or 10%                  70%                             100%
 qualitative
 Date achieved      2008              2013                            2013
 Comments
 (incl         % Report based on complaints forms.
 achievement)
 Indicator: Number of jurisdictions (Corregimientos) covered by the RO
 Value
 quantitative or 503               621                                     621
 qualitative
 Date achieved   2007              2009                                    2009
 Comments
                  Shows the number of jurisdictions where a Vulnerability Census was
 (incl         %
                 applied by RO.
 achievement)
Indicator: Number of households benefiting from the RO.
Value
quantitative or 50,000             75,000                                  75,030
qualitative
Date achieved    2007              2009                                    2010
Comments         After reaching the target value in 2010, attrition in the roster of beneficiaries
(incl         % and the lack of new rounds of enrolment in the program have contributed
achievement)     to a diminishing number of households covered by the program. Total
                 number of households benefiting from RO was 74,481 in 2011; 72,485 in
                 2012; 72,534 in 2013 and 72,895 in 2014.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
       Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                              (US$ millions)
  1   12/16/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  2   04/23/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  3   12/16/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.65
  4   04/06/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 0.78
  5   12/09/2009      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 4.30
  6   06/28/2010      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 7.37
                                                    Moderately
  7   02/20/2011      Moderately Satisfactory                                          11.20
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
  8   08/10/2011     Moderately Unsatisfactory                                         11.62
                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                    Moderately
  9   03/25/2012     Moderately Unsatisfactory                                         12.13
                                                  Unsatisfactory
 10   09/01/2012     Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 14.64
 11   04/10/2013     Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 17.31
 12   06/27/2013      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  18.43
 13   02/05/2014      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  21.15
 14   09/29/2014      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  22.91
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                            Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                       Provide additional time for the
  4/13/ 2009                S      S         0.78      selection of independent agencies
                                                       to carry out the impact evaluation.
                                                       Reallocate      resources     across
                                                       components. Extend the Project’s
                                                       closing date by 18 months to
                                                       December 31, 2013. Revise the
  3/15/2012                 MS    MU        12.3
                                                       Results       Framework          and
                                                       Monitoring Indicators, including
                                                       the revision of the malnutrition
                                                       indicator.
                                                        Provide enough time for
                                                       completion of critical activities,
  12/09/2013                MS    MS        20.67
                                                       including strategy for verification
                                                       of co-responsibilities
                                                       Extension until September 30,
  May 2014                  MS    MS        21.8       2014 to finalize impact evaluation
                                                       data collection.


I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of Project appraisal in 2007, Panama was one of the richest and fastest growing
economies in Latin America, but one with persistent poverty levels. Although between 1997 and
2003 real per capita gross domestic product (GDP) grew at 1.5 percent per year, poverty fell only
by about a half a percentage point, from 37.3 to 36.8 percent, while extreme poverty, dropped
slightly more, from 18.8 to 16.6 percent. In the same period, poverty among the indigenous
population increased and by appraisal, nearly all (98.4 percent) of those living in indigenous areas
lived in poverty.

2.      Panama’s lackluster performance in reducing poverty was not due to low social spending.
In 2007, the country spent almost 17 percent of its GDP in the social sectors, but spending was not
targeted to reach lower income and poor populations. The country had more hospital beds, doctors
and nurses per inhabitant than most upper-middle-income countries, but malnutrition and child
and female mortality in indigenous areas matched those of poor countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
The declining rate of child immunization among the poor and the extreme poor were of particular
concern. Geographic disparities were also significant across urban, rural and indigenous
autonomous comarcas. Differences in educational attainment between indigenous (mainly living
in comarcas) and non-indigenous populations were also significant, although the rural population
attainment rate was converging towards urban levels.

3.      In this context, a major challenge for Panama was to formulate and implement policies that
would help translate its solid growth performance into effective and sustainable poverty reduction.
As a result, in 2006 the Government of Panama (GOP) launched the Red de Oportunidades (RO),
a Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) program targeted to the poorest and indigenous groups in
Panama that aimed to improve their living standards and access to basic social services. The World
Bank Group (WBG) supported the RO through the Social Protection Project, which contributed to
GOP efforts to foster a more comprehensive and coherent social protection strategy. The Bank
Group’s value added in the Project was its high operational expertise in CCT and nutrition
programs, experience with complementary programs to tackle chronic malnutrition through
innovative community-based interventions, capacity to carry out analysis of CCT programs, and
operational experience in supporting the implementation and operation of similar programs in the
region.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.      The Project Development Objective was to: (1) improve the management and operation of
the CCT Program to enhance its effectiveness in reaching the poorest and indigenous groups; (2)
provide beneficiaries with an incentive framework to increase their participation in the CCT
Program, which would boost their demand for education and maternal and infant health services;
(3) strengthen the supply of nutrition and child growth promotion interventions in the indigenous
areas of the RO (comarcas); and (4) enhance Government capacity to develop coherent and
efficient social sector policies and interventions on the basis of evidence. The key development



                                                 1
indicators as proposed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) included dimensions like
targeting, coverage, program awareness, compliance with co-responsibilities, and the Ministry of
Social Development (MIDES) institutional structure. The PDO was not revised. However, the
operational definitions of both PDO and output indicators were revised as the Project identified
adequate data sources, and addressed changes in reporting frequencies.

5.      The PDO is clear and mentions a number of outcomes for which the Project could
reasonably be held accountable. The large number of dimensions involved, however, made it
operationally complex to establish a hierarchy amongst these dimensions and hence guide the
implementation of the Project (dimensions included program management, reaching the poorest,
establishing incentive frameworks, participation in CCT, demand for health and education
services, supply of nutrition and child growth promotion; and government capacity). This ICR
reviews the PDO by differentiating main dimensions and secondary ones in the four areas of
Project support. In the first dimension, this ICR prioritizes the ability of the Project to target and
reach the poor and indigenous groups, and places the functioning of the information system for
verification of co-responsibilities as a secondary objective. For the second dimension, this ICR
prioritizes the ability to reach out to beneficiaries and provide basic program information, given
the constraints in measuring demand for health and education services. In this assessment,
measures of health and education utilization are used to assess the ability to boost demand for these
services. The third dimension is simple and well measurable and requires no hierarchy (supply of
nutrition and child growth promotion interventions in the indigenous areas of the RO). The fourth
dimension is even broader and this ICR will focus on specific actions that enhanced the
coordinating capacity of social policies.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

6.      The PDO of the Project was not revised. The target value for the PDO indicator on
reduction in chronic malnutrition was reduced from 5 to 4 percentage points, as described before,
to reflect the delay in effectiveness. The operational definition of some indicators were revised
also in the 2012 restructuring to facilitate their measurement.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

7.      The main beneficiaries of the Project included almost 75,000 beneficiary households of the
RO, corresponding to poor and extreme poor populations, especially those in rural and indigenous
areas. The Program covered indigenous (comarcas) areas, as well as, rural and urban areas. Since
poverty incidence was the highest in the comarcas (80 percent) where only 10 percent of the
population lives, the RO had a disproportionate coverage in this group: about 25,000 families
representing 32 percent of the beneficiaries. About 38,000 families in rural areas were beneficiaries
of the Program, representing 38 percent of beneficiaries and about 11,000 families were in urban
areas, representing 15 percent of the beneficiaries. Those in urban areas were only included in the
third year of the RO Program. Within this context, families in comarcas and rural areas had access
to a more effective CCT Program and benefitted from child nutrition and growth promotion
interventions in contrast to regular health services in urban areas. Another beneficiary was the
MIDES, which benefitted from activities to strengthen its capacity to manage and analyze social



                                                  2
programs. Other groups benefiting from the CCT Program were non-beneficiary families of rural
communities and comarcas, who saw increased economic activity and availability of social
services due to the coverage of the RO in these areas, and the Executive Branch of the GOP, which
enhanced its capacity to manage social programs and reach target populations in a coordinated
way between different institutions, ministries and government bodies.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

8.        The Project financed activities under four components:
     (i)     Component 1: Strengthening management processes of the RO;
     (ii)    Component 2: Carrying out strategies to increase beneficiary families’ demand for
             education and health services;
     (iii) Component 3: Improving the supply of growth promotion interventions and securing
             access to health services for beneficiaries;
     (iv)    Component 4: Increasing the efficiency of public social sector performance.

9.     Government counterpart funds financed the cash transfers in full and the staff at the central
and provincial levels.

1.6 Revised Components

10.     Components were not revised, but implementation arrangements were changed in March
2012 to facilitate Project execution. In this change, counterpart financing was dropped for
Component 1(b) and eligible expenses in Component 2 of the Project were modified to include
operating costs for fees and expenses for logistics for social agents to implement the Direct Family
Support Strategy under the RO. This change was made to allow the appointment of social workers,
who were deployed at the local level and who implemented family support strategies and helped
link the RO beneficiaries to relevant social services and programs.

1.7 Other significant changes

11.    The Loan Agreement was first amended in May 2009 to provide the counterpart with
additional time for the selection of independent agencies to carry out the impact evaluation of
community-based interventions to prevent chronic malnutrition and the impact evaluation of the
RO.

12.     The Project was restructured for a second time in March 2012 to: (a) reallocate resources
from components with low execution to components with high execution; in particular, resources
were reallocated from Components 2 and 4, which had disbursed 0.4 percent and 2 percent of
resources, respectively, by December, 2011, to Components 1 and 3, which had disbursed 24
percent and 96 percent respectively; (b) extend the Project’s closing date by 18 months from the
original closing date of June 30, 2012 to December 31, 2013, to allow for the completion of the
impact evaluation of RO and the Basic Health and Nutrition Services Coverage Expansion Package
(Paquete de Atención Integral de Servicios de Salud +Nutrición, PAISS+N); and (c) revise the
Results Framework and Monitoring/Indicators, including the revision of one of the outcome




                                                 3
indicators targets for Component 3, to provide more accurate estimates obtained during
supervision. The PDOs were not affected by these changes.

13.    In addition, in November 2013 the closing date was extended for a second time until May
31, 2014 and then a final extension to September 30, 2014, was approved. These extensions were
needed to allow enough time to complete the data collection and evaluation of the RO.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     Soundness of background analysis. At the technical level, the Project design incorporated
results from the Panama Poverty Assessment carried out in 2007, 1 which identified extreme
poverty as a prevalent characteristic of the indigenous population and recommended a social
protection strategy built around a CCT Program. The Poverty Assessment also carried out
simulations of the impact of the CCT Program and developed the methodology for the design of a
proxy-means test to ensure adequate targeting, an area where the Bank had considerable global
expertise.

15.    The team also built on regional knowledge sharing activities on CCTs, and from
operational experiences in a number of countries, especially from Bank involvement in the Bolsa
Escola program in Brazil, and from the preparation of a social services Project in El Salvador,
which provided valuable lessons for the design of strategies to expand coverage of health services
to underserved indigenous populations.

16.      Assessment of Project design. In 2006, the Government introduced the CCT Program RO.
The Project team adequately identified the need to strengthen the program and transform it into
the flagship program for alleviating poverty in Panama. With this aim, the Project team identified
a set of activities where the WBG could provide support, given its comparative advantages, such
as implementing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, designing strategies to support
families in the program, expanding coverage of health and nutrition services, and strengthening
institutional arrangements.


17.     The Project objectives were relevant for the country context. As noted earlier, despite
Panama being an upper middle income country, pockets of extreme poverty existed affecting the
indigenous population and those living in rural areas (and at a much lower scale, in urban areas).
The objectives focused on increasing the effectiveness of the CCT Program on reaching the poorest
populations and providing the means and incentives for investing in their human capital. However,
the relatively complex design meant that the RO Program would need to be functioning well and
would require strong inter-sectorial coordination to ensure cross-sectorial collaboration (e.g.,



1
  “Panama Poverty Assessment: Toward Effective Poverty Reduction”, UNDP and World Bank, Report No. 36307-
PA, June 27, 2007.



                                                    4
verification of co-responsibilities) and a well-developed regional network to deliver the direct
support to families.

18.     The components were relatively well-suited to achieve the objectives of the Project and
were internally consistent. The Project was prepared following a traditional design for investment
operations that aimed at implementing and strengthening social assistance programs, and it
adequately identified the potential institutional shortcomings for implementation. However, the
subsequent Project execution experience suggests that the intricate design of the operation was
overly optimistic with regard to the institutional capacity of the counterpart to successfully
implement activities, and in the commitment of the counterpart to make the necessary investments
and institutional arrangements to carry out activities. In particular, the Project design relied heavily
on the development of a fully functional Management Information System (MIS) and on adequate
inter-ministerial coordination and information exchange between the Ministry of Health, Ministry
of Education (MEDUCA) and MIDES, requiring a level of sophistication in terms of technology
and institutional arrangements that is seldom observed even in more advanced middle- and high-
income countries. The design, which included several objectives, combined with changes in the
political administration in 2009, resulted in weak ownership of the Project and subsequent difficult
implementation. Capacity of the Government to reach these goals was overestimated during
preparation.

19.      Adequacy of Government’s commitment. Although the MIDES actively participated in
Project preparation and implementation, there were delays in both phases due to factors associated
with Government’s commitment and involvement. Lack of coordination between different
institutions within the Government affected dialogue during preparation, while lack of knowledge
and experience in dealing with WBG Projects also affected the initial stages of implementation. It
is worth noting that the MIDES was a recently formed institution (created in August 2005) and it
did not have the capacity to adequately design social policies at the time of appraisal.
Organizationally, some of its functions overlapped with Despacho Presidencial, which was
traditionally in charge of social policies, and did not have the authority to convene other ministries,
such as Health and Education, as needed in the Project. To ensure proper articulation across
ministries, the Government relied on the Social Cabinet which at that time was not fully functional.
This implied that although the counterpart was fully involved in preparation, it showed limited
capacity to make decisions needed to adequately design the operation, or was optimistic in its
assessment of the commitment of the incoming administration.

20.    Assessment of risks. The Project was an investment operation through which the WBG
was re-engaging with Panama, and was prepared within the framework of an Interim Strategy
approved in October 2005. Therefore, to minimize reputational risks, the Project design followed
standard models for CCTs, and was strict in the use of resources.

21.     The Project adequately identified the main risks at the time of preparation and some of the
risks materialized, hampering the performance of the Project, despite having implemented what in
principle seemed as appropriate mitigation measures. For example, low MIDES capacity was
identified as a risk, as were complex procurement and financial arrangements and donor
coordination. Constraints on procurement and financial management (FM) were addressed with




                                                   5
regular training by financiers, and regular supervision and detailed aide memoires played critical
roles in managing those risks.

2.2 Implementation

22.    Project implementation faced numerous challenges associated with: (a) the change in
Government shortly after effectiveness; (b) little knowledge of WBG fiduciary processes given
the GOP and Bank’s reengagement after 5 years; and (c) the difficulty to recruit, train and retain
technical personnel in the implementing units. These challenges, combined with the
aforementioned intricate design and ambitious goals, resulted in a slow start –delayed by almost
two years – that was offset by a more dynamic implementation in the last years as reflected in
disbursement flows. The changes in high-level political positions and staff responsible for Project
management slowed down implementation during the first year of the new administration, as staff
needed to become acquainted with operational details and fiduciary processes. It was during the
new administration (2009-2014) that most implementation took place (after the first year in office),
despite significant budget restrictions during 2012 and 2013. The last three months of
implementation (July-September 2014) were carried out during yet another Administration that
took office on July 1st, 2014.

23.     Component 1 supported the management and operation of the RO to enhance its
effectiveness in reaching the poorest and indigenous groups and its implementation allowed the
program to reach around 75,000 beneficiary families, 69 percent of families with children in the
comarcas, with more than 90 percent of beneficiaries in the poorest 40 percent of the population.
These achievements in terms of coverage, targeting and compliance with co-responsibilities,
however, were not accompanied by a solid MIS to monitor program performance in a more
dynamic fashion. The MIS included information modules responsible for administration,
beneficiary roster (Censo), updates (Novedades), payments, co-responsibilities, indicators, and
complaints. Only the first four modules were operational during implementation which allowed
for a functioning program capable of managing a transparent roster of beneficiaries and delivering
payments to them in a timely fashion, but unable, for instance, to fully verify co-responsibilities
through the information system.

24.     Challenges affecting the MIS were associated with information constraints outside the
control of the RO and to rigidities in the MIS software itself. The constraints external to the
Program included poor quality information on school names or children’s names that needed to be
revised for proper analysis. In the education sector, for example, a number of schools were not
uploading attendance information due to the lack of teachers’ compliance, and restrictions in
access to information and communication technology (ICT) systems in rural and remote areas.
While some of the information quality issues were resolved through data cleaning with the Civil
Registry (Tribunal Electoral), up-to-date attendance records remained a challenge throughout the
Project. These rigidities in the MIS software were due to technical and legal restrictions from the
software vendor that limited access to MIS source codes and reduced the capacity to adjust the
MIS to the specific needs of the RO program. Both the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
and the Bank supported the client through ICT consultancies in order to assess ways of addressing
the MIS constraints and develop alternatives over time. Despite these ICT limitations, the Program
was able to carry out some limited monitoring of compliance with co-responsibilities and even



                                                 6
issued warning letters to non-compliant families. However, due to these limitations, the RO
payments to families were not tied to compliance to co-responsibilities.

25.      Component 2 aimed to provide incentives to increase participation in the RO program and
boost demand for health and education, through the contracting, training and deployment of a
network of direct family support social workers (promotores). After the initial delays,
implementation of this family support network was strengthened by the design of Terms of
Reference for promotores based on Latin American best practices, especially that of the Chile
Solidario model. The hiring of the large network of promotores faced budget uncertainties and
was one of the first activities to be downsized during budget restrictions in 2012 and 2013. The
training of promotores was focused on areas including program features, rights and responsibilities
of all household members, and, in coordination with the Ministry of Health (MINSA), pregnancy
care and early childhood development issues. These promotores were also responsible for
facilitating the formation of Household Groups (Comites de Familia) where Program issues and
households challenges could be discussed. These Household Groups were also the space where
community initiatives were coordinated and implemented. This direct family support network also
facilitated the diagnostic of training needs in different regions and supported the adaptation of
program operations to cultural and social patterns in the indigenous jurisdictions.

26.    Component 3, aimed at improving the supply of health and nutrition services for the RO
beneficiaries in comarcas, was the fastest executed of all Project components. Activities were
implemented by the MINSA and acknowledged MINSA’s lack of capacity to serve all the target
population in indigenous areas, and relied on experienced and qualified external providers called
External Organizations, (EOs) to reach coverage goals. The Project used delivery models that
considered performance payments and had been successful in other Central American countries.
The implementation of this Component relied on the Health Project financed by IDB and the WBG
that used the same performance–based arrangements in rural areas. The payment per person
covered with a health care package established in these contracts with EOs created an incentive to
maximize the number of individuals covered. The estimated number of people to be covered by
these providers was quickly achieved as EOs had incentives to increase their population targets
(pregnant females and children).

27.     This Component, however, faced implementation challenges when budgetary restrictions
were imposed in 2012 and 2013, and the contracting processes of the EOs slowed down.
Investments in human capital are time sensitive since the outcome of, for example, achieving three
prenatal controls for a pregnant female can only be achieved in a specific time window and at
specific times during that window. Delays in contracting EOs affected the ability to reach out to
the target population with timely services. This ICR does not provide an assessment of the impact
of these contracting delays on the performance indicator as discussed during supervision, but raises
the issue for future attention.

28.     Component 4, aimed at increasing the efficiency of public social sector performance
through the enhanced articulation of social policies in the Social Cabinet, mostly supported
technical assistance to policy coordination instances in the Social Cabinet Technical Secretariat
(SCTS). Implementation of this Component was affected by the reduced political role of the SCTS
in policy making during most of the implementation period. This weakened the capacity to



                                                 7
strengthen the coordination across MIDES and other ministries such as MINSA and MEDUCA,
resulting in weakened support to the RO and little pressure to deliver specific products. Still,
implementation of specific activities in component 4 benefited from GOP interest on other policy
issues. For instance, the launching of the non-contributory pension “100 a los 70” in 2010 required
technical assistance in enhancing its eligibility mechanisms and performance that was supported
through this Component. This Component also achieved a first version of the Single Beneficiary
Registry (Registro Unico de Beneficiarios, RUB) that included a number of programs from
MIDES and other ministries. The potential role of the RUB to identify and characterize the
socioeconomic conditions of poor and vulnerable families in Panama and to serve as the
prioritization tool for other programs was not fully achieved because it was not a political priority.

29.      In summary, overall implementation of the Project faced some significant obstacles, but it
tackled capacity problems, weathered political transitions, and managed financing uncertainties.
While the counterpart capacity and knowledge was a significant constraint at the beginning, the
Project relied on international consultancies to address knowledge gaps. IDB and Bank training
on fiduciary issues was a key factor in improving contracting processes. The somewhat rigid
structure of the Project and operational details played an important role in keeping implementation
focused on specific activities and left little room to bias critical program parameters like coverage
or targeting, as found in other countries. But this rigidity was deemed necessary during preparation
to minimize fraud and corruption, as this operation marked the reengagement with Panama after
five years. The political transitions in both 2009 and 2014 brought a level of uncertainty, but the
Project’s tight design, which caused some difficulties in implementation, also protected it from
major political risks, allowing a relatively smooth implementation after initial delays described
earlier. Moreover, the new 2014 administration endorsed the Program as an important component
of social policies in the country.

30.     Finally, the financial and budgetary arrangements in the GOP represented another
challenge in the final years of implementation, but the executing agencies had already built
operational knowledge in FM and procurement issues to mitigate the impacts of these cuts, and
proactively sought extraordinary credits during the Government’s fiscal year. The historical
evidence during the first years showed budget allocations to the MIDES in line with the expected
execution of the Project during the initial years (2008, 2009). However, the low execution rate in
the first two years prompted the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to allocate much less budget in
subsequent years (2010 onward), when the Project picked up its execution speed since it had settled
most of its initial constraints (staff rotation and political transitions). This meant that the periods
when the Project became more active and required more funding coincided with those in which
budget allocations provided by the MOF were reduced. This situation was aggravated during the
last years of implementation when fiscal deficit concerns triggered further reductions in budgetary
allocations. Although this situation was constantly flagged by the supervision team,
responsiveness at the government level was not immediate, since internal procedures had to be
followed to authorize additional funding for the MIDES once the budget was approved in the form
of extraordinary credits from central government. The challenges in budget and disbursement
management, present in the entire Panama portfolio, are important lessons for future operations.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization




                                                  8
31.     M&E design. In general, adequate indicators were identified to monitor progress toward
achievement of the PDOs. A comprehensive set of indicators was included, which focused on the
main objectives that the Project sought to achieve: capacity building for the RO management;
support for beneficiary families to increase their demand for health and education services, with
special focus on indigenous areas; extension of coverage of health interventions, with special focus
on women, children and indigenous areas; and enhancement of general government capacity to
design and implement social policies. As discussed before, the multiple dimensions of the PDO,
with objectives that in some cases overlapped across components, complicated the definition of
adequate indicators. In addition, some of the indicators were ambitious in requesting verification
of co-responsibilities2 or attempting to measure impacts on Program outcomes such as chronic
malnutrition, an outcome that is seldom included as a PDO indicator in CCT Projects. During
implementation and supervision there were important demographic changes taking place in
Panama that affected the measurement of critical indicators and that were not fully accounted
during Project design. For example, the substantial migration from indigenous areas (comarcas)
and rural areas to metropolitan areas (Panama City) resulted in a reduction in the number of
younger women in the comarca population and in the resulting survey samples of young children.3
As a result, the measurement of malnutrition that relies on the number of children surveyed, lost
precision because of the lower than expected number of children surveyed given migration to other
areas. This has triggered additional efforts in understanding the impact of the program in the
context of high geographic mobility.

32.     The measurement of key indicators relied on the development of a MIS supported by the
Project. However, the MIS was never able to operate fully and by the end of the Project it was not
able to produce statistical reports or register the compliance of co-responsibilities. The only
modules that were fully operational in the MIS were the administration, registry of beneficiaries
and the payments module, which allowed the production of the payment roster each period and the
tracking of payment histories. Therefore, some indicators could not be measured.

33.    M&E Implementation. The main shortcoming when implementing the M&E indicators
was the lack of reliable data due to the delays in implementing the impact evaluation of the
interventions and the failure of the MIS to produce statistical reports. The development of the MIS


2
  In terms of compliance with the verification of co-responsibilities, projects show different approaches. While neither
the last two Mexico loans, nor the Jamaica Social Protection Project include an indicator requiring the CCT Program
to verify and report enrolled families’ compliance with the co-responsibilities, Brazil’s Bolsa Familia 2nd Adaptable
Program Loan and Honduras’ Social Protection loan include such indicator. In the case of Brazil the target set requires
Bolsa Familia to verify health co-responsibilities for at least 80 percent of beneficiaries, starting from a baseline in
2005 when the program collected health information of only 6 percent of families, and education co-responsibility for
at least 95 percent beneficiaries of elementary school-age. It must be kept in mind that these verification goals are
defined for Bolsa Familia, one of the most mature CCTs in the world. In the Honduras loan, where no co-responsibility
was verified in 2010, the target is set to validating the co-responsibility compliance of all 30,000 families participating
in the program.

3
  According to INEC, the net migration of the indigenous comarcas was -44,280 people in the 2010 Census, which is
equivalent to 30 percent of the total population in these areas in 2000. The only Province with a negative migration is
Darien, while the provinces with largest positive migration are Bocas del Toro and Panama (source: Diagnostico de
la Población Indígena de Panama con base en los Censos de Población y Vivienda de 2010, INEC, January 2015).



                                                            9
demanded a significant commitment of human resources for the implementation unit and for the
supervision provided by the Bank and IDB, which jointly financed this activity. Although the
procurement of the development of this product was carried out following Bank procedures, the
end result was a product with characteristics that did not make it fully functional for the needs of
the Program. Unfortunately, upon delivery of the product, the implementation unit was not able to
provide feedback during the testing period on all the capabilities required for the MIS, due to
understaffing at the relevant areas dealing with verification of co-responsibilities and data analysis.
Despite this, both Banks provided no objection for the delivery of the product, since having a
partial MIS that could be subsequently improved was preferred to having no MIS at all.
Afterwards, difficulties were encountered regarding the use of the MIS, mainly stemming from the
rigid design of the system, discussed earlier. This, plus the resistance of the developer to open the
system for modifications, resulted in a MIS that is not fully operational and does not generate many
of the reports that would be necessary for the rigorous follow up of Project performance indicators.
Both Banks have made additional efforts to make the MIS operational but the technical
characteristics of the system make it impossible to tweak the program to fully serve the needs of
the RO.

34.     M&E Utilization. The lack of a fully functional MIS and the delays in obtaining results
from the impact evaluation of interventions affected the ability of the Project implementation unit
(PIU) to use most monitoring indicators to make decisions about the delivery of the program. Inter-
ministerial agreements were signed among the Ministries of Health, Education and MIDES, but
other information bottlenecks were observed, such as low attendance recording by teachers, the
even lower reporting in digital format, and the difficulties in matching the RO roster of
beneficiaries with the Ministry of Education enrolment data. Due to these restrictions, the module
for registering the verification of co-responsibilities in the MIS (for example, whether a child
attended a number of hours in school) could never be operated for the entire population but for a
large fraction of them. As a result, one of the key components of any CCT programs, the
compliance with co-responsibilities by beneficiary families, has not been able to be measured and
monitored in a systematic way throughout the implementation of the Program.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

35.      Safeguards. OP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples was triggered by the Project. Given that the
Program focused on reaching the indigenous population, an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) was
prepared. The plan consisted of a brief social assessment, based on information collected at the
local level in the indigenous comarcas, and six main activities aimed to ensure that the RO
Program benefits reached indigenous beneficiaries, for the Program to be accountable to those
indigenous beneficiaries and for their benefits to be culturally appropriate. The implementation of
the IPP had very limited supervision until 2013, when many of its actions were already obsolete.
From a Bank perspective, this limited supervision resulted in the IPP meeting a very low proportion
of its original objectives. The main activities carried out were the creation of Family Committees
in the comarcas and the wide availability of bilingual program staff, both among promotores and
among staff visiting the area on payment days.

36.    Procurement. Slow bidding and contracting resulted in hampered procurement activities
throughout implementation, particularly during the first two years. These delays affected key



                                                  10
components that provided support to enhance the management of the RO program, such as the
development of the MIS and the results of the impact evaluation of health interventions, and the
RO Program. Supervision of procurement activities regularly found difficulties in launching calls
for expression of interests, fielding enough candidates for the task offered, and retaining
consultants once they were contracted. The procurement of consultancy services, in particular,
suffered because of the limited understanding of the human resource management aspects, an area
that should be strengthened in future operations.

37.     Financial Management. Throughout implementation, the Project FM Implementation
Supervision Report (ISR) rating was maintained as Satisfactory, since FM arrangements, in terms
of accounting, budgeting, flow of funds, internal control and financial reporting were adequate. It
is also worth mentioning that the Project Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) and external audit
reports were regularly submitted and deemed acceptable.  Based on this, it could be stated with
reasonable assurance that: (a) loan proceeds were used for the intended purposes; (b) Project’s
FM-related arrangements allowed an appropriate level of transparency that facilitated oversight
and control, while also supporting a smooth implementation; and (c) the Project’s legal FM-related
covenants were met.

38.     However, it is worth noting that the main FM-related issues identified during supervision
were: (a) insufficiency of the budget annually approved by the Congress to finance Project
activities carried out during each fiscal year. This required the PIU to request additional budget
from the MOF to ensure that all Project activities were completed by the closing date; and (b)
excess of prior controls related to approvals by the National Audit Unit (Contraloria General de
la República de Panama, CGR) and its offices of each contract and payment, which occasionally
had negative impact on implementation

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

39.     A successful engagement was possible with the incoming authorities that came into office
in July 2014, owing to the extension of the closing date of the Project through September 2014.
In fact, communication from the GOP explicitly mentioned that this extension should serve as
financing and technical bridge with the new administration (DM-SPS-124-14). WBG’s
acceptance to extend the Project facilitated a dialogue that helped identify some priority actions
that needed to be taken to develop the RO and that were in line with the social priorities of the new
administration. It is recognized that the Program needs to tackle several actions to improve its
performance, like the effective verification of co-responsibilities, improve the coverage in
indigenous comarcas, and the development of a fully functional MIS. In addition, the Program
needs to deliver a more appropriate provision of services to different types of beneficiaries (urban,
rural, comarcas), with interventions that will support their participation into income-generating
activities. As part of this dialogue, a request for a follow-up operation supporting a broader agenda
involving the strengthening of the targeting and coverage of social programs (RO among them),
and enhancing the efficiency of administration of social programs was requested by the
Government. This is in line with pending challenges in including new families with children in
the RO, especially in comarcas, and complementing cash transfers with additional social and
productive services. This broader perspective for engagement is complemented by parallel
activities described in the following paragraphs.



                                                 11
40.    The engagement with local counterparts remains active through an evaluation supported
by Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA). The evaluation of the 100 a los 70, which has
evolved and changed its name to 120 a los 65, is a critical activity as the GOP has extended the
coverage starting at age 65 and increasing the benefit to 120 Panamanian Balboas.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial

41.     The relevance of the PDOs was considered high at preparation and remain so today. In
particular, despite high economic growth and successful economic performance, relevant areas of
poverty remain among rural and indigenous populations, who lag behind in economic and human
development compared with the rest of the population. By March 2014, poverty in indigenous
comarcas was 80 percent compared to 17.2 percent in the rest of the country (MOF, 2014). Since
the Project focused on strengthening the capacity of the Government to deliver the CCT Program
and accompanying services to families in the poorest and most vulnerable groups, the PDO was
and still is highly relevant for the objectives of the country. It is also highly relevant for the twin
goals of eliminating extreme poverty and fostering shared prosperity set forth by the World Bank
Group.

42.     The relevance of design is considered Substantial. The Project design focus on enhancing
capacity for managing and implementing a CCT Program, extending coverage of health services
to the extreme poor population and strengthening institutional organization for the design of social
policies in the GOP, is relevant, clearly specified and internally consistent. An important feature
of the Project is the targeting design that defined the contours for the RO coverage and limited
discretionary changes during implementation. The main downside of the design is that it was
highly demanding on the Government’s capacity to implement.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

43.    Achievement of PDOs based on the discussion on implementation issues can be described
as Moderately Satisfactory given the achievement of the first (targeting, coverage, co-
responsibilities), second (direct support to families) and third (health coverage) PDOs and the non-
achievement of the last PDO (enhancing social policy coordination). Although the Project was
able to support some activities towards the achievement of the last PDO, these activities are
deemed as insufficient, but still represent improvement.

44.       The main achievements of the Project can be categorized as follows:
         Implementation of a social policy based on international best practice, applied for the first
          time in Panama
         Ability to register and timely deliver CCT to close to 75,000 poorest families, including
          those in remote areas and indigenous comarcas




                                                   12
          Review and implementation of a targeting mechanism (Indice de Marginalidad) that
           allowed the Program to reach the poor in an objective and transparent way, delivering more
           than 90 percent of benefits to the poorest two quintiles
          Provision of health services to a population previously excluded from getting vaccination
           or health check-ups due to their geographical or socio-economic conditions (rural areas and
           indigenous comarcas)
          Establishment of a network of social workers (promotores sociales) that provide family
           support to beneficiaries’ households

45.     However, the Project suffered from major hurdles in implementation that precluded it from
fully reaching its objectives. In particular, the main shortcomings of the Project are as follows:
     Lack of a fully functional MIS that would allow a more efficient administration of the RO
        and reliable follow up of indicators and performance
     Partial, instead of full verification of co-responsibilities from participant families in a
        systematic and predictable manner
     Unfinished robust impact evaluation due to limited time and closing date, but data
        collection complete
     Incomplete development of a governing body with technical capacity within the public
        sector in Panama to design, monitor and evaluate social policies

46.     Institutional coordination was an ambitious objective that was weakened by the low
political support to the Social Cabinet. However, the Project was able to implement the building
blocks that help support a relevant social policy, proven effective in many other contexts (CCTs
have been positively evaluated in their impact to support investment in human capital, even when
implemented as semi-unconditional cash transfers 4 ) and that has served the poorest and
underserved portions of the population in rural areas and indigenous communities.

(1) Improve the management and operation of the CCT Program to enhance its effectiveness
in reaching the poorest and indigenous groups.

47.     This objective has been partially achieved, since the Project was able to support the
consolidation of the Management Unit for the RO, and resolved several bottlenecks in the hiring
of consultants and implementing activities. The Management Unit, including FM and
procurement, is fully staffed and operational. Upon Project closure, the Management Unit was
absorbed in the MIDES structure and its functions have been maintained. Overall, the Project
supported the RO Program in reaching a coverage around 75,000 poorest families with children,
especially in indigenous and rural areas, ensuring compliance with education co-responsibilities,
and targeting of benefits being received by the poorest quintiles. Coverage of RO families reached
69 percent of the projected households with children in the comarcas, but this is likely to be
underestimated due to significant indigenous outmigration that is not accounted for in population
Projections. This population complied with education co-responsibilities, as evidence from the
Impact Evaluation Survey shows that enrolment rates for children aged 5 to 17 in the RO reached
91.8 percent in indigenous areas, above the 90 percent target and above rates of non-beneficiary


4
    See “Evidence and Lessons Learned from Impact Evaluations on Social Safety Nets” (IEG 2011)


                                                       13
children (PDO Indicator). The enrolment rate difference between beneficiaries and non-
beneficiaries is even larger among girls, suggesting a larger incidence of the RO benefits among
girls. Finally, the targeting of the RO was effective in delivering most of the program benefits to
the poorest households in Panama. Estimates from the recent 2014 National Household Survey
shows that more than 90 percent of beneficiaries are in the poorest 40 percent of the population
(74.4 percent in the poorest quintile), reflecting the sound targeting developed and implemented
in the Project.

48.     The main weaknesses of the implementation of the Project have precluded the full
achievement of this objective, namely the absence of a consistent method for verifying co-
responsibilities and the limited completion of the MIS (which would register verified co-
responsibilities). Verification of co-responsibilities was ambitiously designed to exploit
information systems in health and education sectors to verify compliance. In practice, however,
these information systems were not fully developed. As a result, in some remote areas there were
significant differences between the data from official sectorial ministries and the RO information.
Despite efforts to address these issues during implementation (as explained earlier), the challenge
of verification of co-responsibilities has remained difficult in remote areas. The Project has
supported the development of a strategy for verification that could rely on different data sources
depending on the region of implementation.

49.     These data limitations resulted in reduced capacity to manage the program, such as the
inability to keep track of compliance among beneficiaries and issue reports of non-compliance,
but more importantly, resulted in the inability to systematically identify the reasons for non-
compliance and adequately respond with family accompaniment advice. This has affected the
achievement of objectives related to the payment of benefits subject to the verification of
compliance with co-responsibilities and the registration of compliance in the MIS for M&E
purposes.

50.      The RO Program has remained largely unmodified since its inception, providing the same
type of services and containing the same family co-responsibilities despite the natural evolution of
the roster of beneficiaries. As there were no regular, widespread efforts for updating the covered
population (recertification processes) the roster of beneficiaries went through a natural aging of
family members (children). This aging of the beneficiary roster, coupled with delays in the
contracting process for the Impact Evaluation, affected the evaluation design as it needed to have
enough potency in estimating certain indicators (for example, children malnutrition). As a
consequence, while the data collection was successfully completed, the impact evaluation results
still need further revisions to ensure these are properly identifying RO impacts.

(2) Provide beneficiaries with an incentive framework to increase their participation in the
CCT Program, which would boost their demand for education and maternal and infant
health services

51.    This objective has been achieved, but significant vulnerabilities are still present. After
much delay, the Program has been able to build the network of social workers that provide support
to beneficiary families. As part of their services, social workers carry out family visits and assess
the family situation, which enables them to assist families in accessing services that are relevant



                                                 14
for each particular situation. Data from October 2013 shows that 389 out of 621 territorial units
(corregimientos) are covered by promotores, who have carried out visits to 58,749 out of 64,194
beneficiaries to inform them about their rights and responsibilities. In addition to the specialized
family support network, a massive information campaign has been launched to inform
beneficiaries of their rights and responsibilities. As a result, the proportion of beneficiaries that
have been informed about the program through a visit from a social worker had reached 92 percent
by October 2013.

52.     These promotores have also played an important role in providing guidance and facilitating
training services to beneficiary families. More than 5,000 beneficiary families have received
trainings of different duration by a range of public sector providers including the Ministry of
Agricultural Development (MIDA), the national training institute (INADEH), and the small and
micro enterprise agency (AMPYME), among others. The strong interest shown by families in
services beyond the cash transfer has motivated the MIDES to strengthen the facilitation of
productive services to beneficiaries. This agenda has been emphasized by the new administration,
which has requested additional support in designing these integrated services with other agencies.

53.     However, as noted earlier, verification of co-responsibilities on health and education was
carried out partially, given coverage limitations in the health and education information systems.
As of December 2013, the number of children with verified co-responsibilities reached 54,900 out
of 121,000 in the RO roster due to incomplete student data and inability to match the RO data with
MEDUCA data.

(3) Strengthen the supply of nutrition and child growth promotion interventions in the
indigenous areas of the RO, comarcas.

54.      This objective was fully achieved. The Project enabled the extension of PAISS+N health
interventions to indigenous areas. This is considered a good example of a social protection Project
that is able to leverage cross-sectorial efforts to achieve objectives that are highly complementary
to the social protection aspect of the program, as has been a recommendation in the regional social
protection strategy endorsed by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). 5 Disbursements for
activities under Component 3 (associated with this objective) reached 96 percent by the end of
December 2011, and by August 2011, the Project had already reached the coverage PDO indicator
with 234,523 beneficiaries. The rapid achievement of this PDO indicator was due to the number
of beneficiaries being greater than estimated during preparation (due to underestimated population
in comarcas). The high disbursement rate was mainly due to the increase in unit cost of service
provision in 2009 to compensate for increments in the cost of inputs, salaries, and additional
requirements of mobile team composition. Since the MINSA had contracts with nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs) for health and nutrition service provision in indigenous areas through
November 2013, the March 2012 Project restructuring provided additional resources for
Component 3 to complete four years of service delivery and evaluate results in the reduction of



5
 See World Bank, 2010. “Achieving Social Protection for All in Latin America and the Caribbean.” Cited in “Social
Safety Nets: An Evaluation of World Bank Support, 2000–2010” (IEG, 2011).



                                                       15
the incidence of chronic malnutrition in indigenous areas. Unfortunately, the measurement of the
malnutrition indicator was not possible due to limited information on children under 24 months.

55.     Ancillary data from Encuesta de Niveles de Vida (1997, 2003, and 2008) shows an
increasing trend in chronic malnutrition for children under 5 years in comarcas, increasing from
54 percent in 1997 to 59.6 percent in 2003 and reaching 62 percent in 2008. MINSA’s 2012
information for Extension Coverage Strategy for rural and indigenous areas combined corroborates
this trend showing 34 percent of chronic malnutrition compared to 32 percent in 2008 (combines
62 percent in comarcas and 17.3 percent in rural areas weighed by their sample populations). The
Impact Evaluation Survey for the RO measures chronic malnutrition for children under two (as
stated in the Results Matrix) and provides estimates for both treatment and control areas in
indigenous areas. By establishing comparison groups that are similar in socioeconomic conditions
(matching using a common support on poverty variables), the preliminary data shows results in
the expected direction (3.7 percentage points reduction), but insufficiently precise to reach a
conclusion, given the very limited potency of the data. These difficulties suggest that the PDO
indicator on chronic malnutrition was probably too strict (and ambitious) for this Project, as there
are very few CCT Projects with similar PDO outcome indicators. In addition, the supervision of
the Project should have identified the demographic changes and program features that affected this
measurement.

(4) Enhance Government capacity to develop coherent and efficient social sector policies and
interventions on the basis of evidence.

56.     Although the Project was able to provide support to certain instances of social policy design
in Panama, this overall objective was not achieved. In particular, the Technical Secretariat of the
Social Cabinet was not fully functional during the previous administration and coordination among
ministries on social policies remained weak throughout the life of the Project. Some support was
provided for the implementation of a single registry of beneficiaries, as a tool for MIDES to allow
follow-up and identification of beneficiaries of all social programs managed by the ministry.
Additional support was also provided through the Project to inform the design and implementation
of new social programs, such as Angel Guardian (disability benefit) and 100 a los 70. In particular,
a strategy for targeting and recertification of the latter was proposed when the program started to
implement poverty and vulnerability conditions for eligibility, after being launched in practice as
a semi-universal scheme.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Modest

57.     The economic analysis of the Project at appraisal mentions the long-term impacts of a CCT
Program, especially when it is able to achieve an increased investment in education and health for
the children in beneficiary families. The analysis then uses a structural model to take into account
behavioral responses of beneficiary families to the existence of the program to estimate its
expected impacts on poverty measures. Unfortunately, the Program does not count with a full and
robust impact evaluation as of the closing date, and therefore it is not possible to compare even
short-term benefits with the costs of the Project. However, valuable information can be obtained




                                                 16
from national household surveys, which include reception of the RO in the information captured
for each family respondent.

58.     The Program is effective in reaching the poorest households in the country. Data from the
2013 household survey shows that 73.1 percent of the RO beneficiaries belong to households in
the first quintile of income distribution and 92.5percent belong to the first two quintiles. This
makes it one of the best-targeted CCTs in the region and one of the best-targeted social assistance
programs in Panama alongside the family food subsidy delivered by the Food Security Authority
(Secretaria Nacional para el Plan de Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutricional, SENAPAN).

59.     Based on the 2012 household survey, the RO Program is estimated to reduce extreme
poverty by 3.6 percent, total poverty by 0.8 percent and the poverty gap index by 4.1 percent.
These results are in line with what was originally expected at appraisal, even though the Program
was implemented with different conditionality rules and lower verification of co-responsibilities
than originally envisaged. Furthermore, the RO is estimated to reduce the poverty gap by US$0.8
for each dollar spent in the Program, which makes it one of the most cost-effective programs in
Panama and it compares favorably with similar programs in the region. This indicates that Project
activities aimed at improving and implementing the targeting mechanism were fruitful. On the
other hand the Project investments in developing an MIS and verification of co-responsibilities
have not achieved their objectives. These activities were covered under Component 1, which
concentrated 19 percent of Project costs.

60.     Considering the most successful component of the Project, the provision of health services
to indigenous population and underserved areas, the unit costs for the provision of these services
were underestimated and additional resources were allocated to provide a full four-year cycle of
health interventions. This Component constituted 65 percent of total Project costs.

61.      Overall, Project costs were in line with what was estimated at appraisal and most objectives
were at least partially achieved. However, the Project presented delays in implementation and
extended its closing date by a total of 27 months with respect to the original, partly reflecting the
earlier 2 year late implementation start. In this sense, the Project has been partially successful in
delivering results at a cost that is within estimated during appraisal, albeit with delays and therefore
over a longer period than was originally envisaged as the life of the Project, affecting its efficiency.
Still, the extensions granted during supervision have been critical in allowing for implementation
and reflected in disbursement flows.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

62.     The overall outcome rating is considered Moderately Satisfactory. While the relevance of
objectives remains high and relevance of design is substantial, there were shortcomings in
implementation. The outcome was deemed to be in the range of Satisfactory because: (a) the
relevance of objectives remains high; (b) the relevance of Project design is substantial; (c) the goal
for extending coverage of health and growth promotion interventions was surpassed; and (d) other
important objectives of the Program, such as targeting, coverage, informing beneficiaries and
deploying a network of social workers were also achieved. The overall outcome rating is



                                                  17
Moderately Satisfactory because implementation was more complex than envisaged and resulted
in important shortcomings, such as the incomplete nature of the MIS and the lack of a strengthened
institutional design for the implementation of social policies. Other shortcomings justifying the
Moderately Satisfactory rating are: (a) the longer than planned implementation time; and (b) the
lack of robust impact evaluation of the Program.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

63.     The Project focused on reaching the poorest and most vulnerable populations with a
package of CCT and complementary services, with especial focus on the indigenous population.
Interventions were made with the aim of fostering investment in human capital to achieve higher
social development.

64.     Women and children are the main beneficiaries of the Program as the priority recipients of
the cash transfer, which benefits families with children and pregnant women in poor households.
The Program has reached a total of 73,441 households, with 388,697 individual beneficiaries of
the program; 1,726 beneficiaries between 0 and 4 years of age must comply with health co-
responsibilities and 189,602 beneficiaries between 4 and 17 years of age with education co-
responsibilities. As has been shown, according to the household survey data from 2013, 92.5
percent of households receiving the RO belong to the 40 percent poorest households in the country.
In addition, the beneficiary assessment (Annex 5) shows an increasing participation of females in
household decision making as a result of the RO Program.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

65.     The Project focused on strengthening the institutional capacity at the GOP for designing
and implementing social policies based on robust evidence and analysis. Although the Project was
not fully successful in reaching its objectives, it did support several initiatives within the GOP and
helped develop tools, such as the targeting mechanism and the registry of beneficiaries, which
serve as building blocks for eventual new social interventions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

66.     Although the cash benefit is delivered at the household level, it has been observed that
some communities have organized around the delivery of the transfer through Family Committees
and have pooled resources among different recipients to invest in improvements at the community
level. In some indigenous comarcas, groups of female beneficiaries organized themselves and
pooled the resources to set up a small entrepreneurship (such as a basic store) or as a collective
savings and insurance mechanism (as a source of additional funds to face a family emergency for
example). These interactions seem interesting enough to merit further analysis. They could provide
lessons for the implementation of these types of programs in traditional communities and for
exploiting the full potential of synergies that informal community organization mechanisms may
provide.




                                                 18
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

67.     The Impact Evaluation Study conducted a survey of beneficiaries between April and June
2014. The results show important participation in key activities of the program, with 45 percent of
respondents having participated in a Family Committee in the last 2 months and 49 percent having
received the visit of a social worker in the last 6 months. Quality of services is qualified as “good”
by 68 percent of respondents in the case of health services, 83 percent in the case of services
provided by MIDES and 79 percent in the case of education services. Knowledge of the Program
is also high, with more than 95 percent of respondents generally correctly identifying the main
characteristics of the Program regarding commitments by the State and responsibilities by the
families.

68.     A qualitative assessment of the Program was carried out as part of the impact evaluation
plan for the RO. The assessment implemented 130 interviews and 21 discussion groups on topics
related to the Program, with the participation of beneficiaries and program operators, such as health
and education providers or local social workers (promotores). The main findings are that the
beneficiary population values highly the education of their children, which motivates the families
to make efforts and use the transfers to buy materials and pay for transportation to send their kids
to school. Among indigenous girls, however, the survey identified the importance of teen
pregnancy as a driver of school dropout. On health issues, women expressed better predisposition
to prevention practices and assistance to health check-ups and giving birth in a health center, but
at the same time the survey identified nutrition practices deeply rooted in traditional and cultural
settings where the Program had little effect.

69.    Women express empowerment on their decision-making after receiving the transference in
the family context. The Program also allows a space of integration and participation of women on
entrepreneurship activities, through small training activities, the guidance of promotores and
production in small family gardens. Participation in these activities has improved women’s
community relations empowering their participation at the community level.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

70.     The risk to the development outcomes is considered Moderate. There are clear solid factors
contributing to sustaining the Project’s achievements. In particular, the RO has consolidated as a
flagship social program in Panama, with strong brand recognition and relevant penetration in areas
that were traditionally underserved by government services. The Program has remained
operational throughout two political transitions, when the Government changed from one coalition
to the opposing and then back to a coalition closer to the one in power when the Program was
launched.

71.     While some tools, such as the MIS or the impact evaluation are not fully developed, the
program counts with appropriate staffing at the central and local levels, a network of 373 social
workers deployed in 389 out of 621 municipalities (corregimientos) and a targeting mechanism,
registry of beneficiaries and payment systems that are fully operational and support the ongoing



                                                 19
implementation of the program. After the closing of the Project and cessation of financial resources
from loans, the government took up the financing of the Program. Payment for social workers has
been taken up by the MIDES, after being financed with proceeds from IDB and IBRD loans, and
social workers are now able to link the RO beneficiaries with other programs implemented by the
MIDES.

72.     The main risk is the institutional fragility supporting the Program. As has been seen, lack
of coordination has precluded the full achievement of some objectives, such as the systematic
verification of education and health responsibilities among beneficiary population. In addition,
other programs target populations and have similar objectives, including Beca Universal, a
universal scholarship program that pays school age students based on performance at grade levels.
The GOP will need to build a coherent set of programs and interventions under a common
conceptual framework and it will still require external support to design a coherent social
protection strategy based on evidence that is relevant for Panama and on international best practice.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.      The Bank team designed a Project that was highly relevant for the needs of the country
and took into account the risk that arose in the context of re-engagement with the country under
the framework of an interim country strategy. The design was internally consistent and based on
valuable lessons learned from other operations in Brazil and Central America. The main
shortcoming was the ambitious nature and inflexibility of the Project, which did not fully take into
account government capacity and lack of experience in dealing with Bank Projects. In the context
of re-engagement, such complexity in Project design is not advisable.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     The Bank carried out active supervision and implementation support for the Project. The
Bank conducted regular, well-staffed supervision missions, during which it provided quality
technical assistance to the borrower. The Bank used the supervision missions to adjust the Project’s
activities to better achieve the PDO. The midterm review was used to propose adjustments to
Project activities in order to achieve targets and outcomes and restructure the Project accordingly.
The Bank provided substantial technical assistance and training to the implementing units within
the MIDES to become acquainted and proficient on Bank fiduciary procedures.

75.     The most important issue during supervision arose with the development of the MIS, which
was the focus of a great deal of attention. The urgent need in having an MIS in operation may have
influenced both Banks to provide no objection to a product that, when delivered, evidenced
limitations not contemplated in the technical specifications and effectively provided an incomplete
functional tool in the Project. Once implemented, both Banks made additional efforts during



                                                 20
supervision missions to provide support to the technical teams at the implementation unit in the
MIDES to adjust the MIS and improve its functionality. However, technical issues and inflexibility
of the software precluded from significantly improving the operability of the MIS. Since the MIS
was not able to track the verification of co-responsibilities, the implementation of a CCT was
truncated and the RO program focused mainly on payments and registry of beneficiaries, with little
attention given to the provision of services or thorough follow-up of statistics and indicators of the
Program.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.    Overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory given that both quality at
entry and quality of supervision were moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

77.      Government performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory as the mechanism
designed to ensure coordination across ministries (Social Cabinet) was weakened during most of
implementation and because budgetary restrictions affected the timely implementation of activities
in 2012 and 2013. The Government was able to adequately support the development of the Project,
but showed low capacity to ensure institutional coordination as reflected in the limited role of the
Social Cabinet during most of the Project implementation. In addition, the Government had
complex internal arrangements to allocate funds for line ministries, especially when budget
restrictions were imposed in 2012 and 2013. In such cases, MIDES had to request the Ministry of
Finance for extraordinary credits within the year, which resulted in delays in implementation of
some Project activities. Despite these budgetary restrictions, MOF has shown flexibility in
reallocating financial resources across implementing agencies and has given priority to the
implementation of the Program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies’ Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

78.      The implementing agencies were able to operate the Program successfully, despite facing
several hurdles and initial delays. The focus of the Program has been on performing core functions
such as registering beneficiaries, checking eligibility through a proxy-means test, delivering
payments on time, delivering a basic health care package to poorest families, and providing family
support through a network of social workers deployed at the local level. The Project experienced
significant delays initially, and only in 2012 did execution really pick up, after restructuring which
allowed more flexibility for hiring social workers. These initial delays had an impact on the
achievement of objectives and affected the delivery of some crucial products, such as the impact
evaluation of the Project. The implementing agency has not been able to fully operate the MIS due
to its rigid design. Despite these difficulties, the implementing agency has been able to continue
the operation of the Program, delivering transfers and accompanying services in the most remote



                                                 21
areas of the country and to the poorest portions of the population. The performance of MIDES and
MINSA is also reflected in procurement and financial management assessments showing
satisfactory ratings in the supervision of the Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.     The combined rating of Government’s performance (Marginally Unsatisfactory) and the
Implementing Agency performance (Marginally Satisfactory) is Moderately Satisfactory as the
budgetary restrictions were managed with reallocations across implementing agencies and with
additional budgetary allocations from MOF, reflecting the importance of the RO Program and this
Project for social policy in Panama, and because the overall outcome rating is Moderately
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

80.      In situations of Bank re-engagement with a client, simple and scalable operations may
be preferable. When the Bank is reengaging with a client, a clear assessment of the country
situation is not fully informed by an ongoing dialogue at the technical level. This lack of permanent
contact hampers the ability to detect all the nuances of counterpart preparedness and commitment
that may otherwise be more evident. Preparing a complex and ambitious Project is more difficult
in this situation. Therefore, a simple Project with small, but scalable activities, and pilots may be
a good vehicle for re-engaging, testing counterpart readiness and afterwards implementing a more
complex Project. Unfortunately, such modular approach is difficult to implement using current
Bank’s investment instruments and procedures.

81.     Use of tested hiring mechanisms, such as performance-based payments, can boost the
achievement of objectives. A good use of tools and mechanisms that have worked well in similar
situations is advisable when they are appropriate for the country context. In this case the Project
did a good diagnosis of the capacity of the MINSA to extend coverage, made use of performance-
based payment mechanisms to hire external providers (NGOs), and found synergies in
implementation with a health Project being implemented at the same time in the rest of the country.
These are good examples of appropriate design and effective implementation using Bank
resources.

82.     More attention should be given to the requirements for MIS for enabling easier
operation by implementing agencies. Although the development of a MIS may seem standard
for the administration of a cash transfer or social program, in practice there are many specificities
that arise in the operation of the system due to idiosyncratic characteristics of the program or the
context in which it is applied. Technical specification in the terms of reference for the development
of such information systems should include the ability of the implementing agency not only to
operate the systems, but also to alter its structure to adapt its functions to needs that may arise in
operations. Open source software provides the possibility of developing a system that is more
functional and adaptable and may be considered as an alternative for the development of these
systems. These technical considerations became critical in the capacity to deliver specific Project
outcomes, such as the verification of co-responsibilities.



                                                 22
83.    Project indicators need to consider the availability of data and feasibility to obtain
unavailable data. Indicators are key for measuring the progress and achievements of the Project.
Most indicators would be feasible to measure with existing information at the time of appraisal or
with information that is about to be readily available. Having too many indicators rely on the
development of an MIS or the elaboration of an impact evaluation study may hamper the
availability and affect the measurement of Project performance.

84.     Cash transfer programs may have positive impacts at the local level when deployed
in close-knit communities. Despite the standard approach of CCT focused on families with
children and delivered at the household level, receipt of these transfers may trigger additional
impacts facilitated by pooling of resources and coordination among beneficiaries. This is
especially the case in a program such as the RO, which had universal coverage in indigenous areas,
due to their poverty levels, and when community decisions are of higher importance in those areas.
Although these impacts were observed in the Project, further investigation is needed to assess their
effects and contribution to local development in the communities.

85.     Ensuring the offerings of social assistance programs are culturally adapted and
tailored to specific beneficiary groups should ensure better compliance with co-
responsibilities of these programs. The RO program has increased successful delivery of transfer
payments amongst indigenous beneficiaries both in comarcas and the indigenous communities
outside of the comarcas. As the program moves forward, it should further tailor its offerings
according to the distinct characteristics of its beneficiary population. In education, this would
include offering multicultural bilingual education options. In health, the program will offer
culturally appropriate medical practices and medical practitioners who have been trained in
cultural sensitivity and local languages. Moreover, the Program’s gender dimensions will be
strengthened by working beyond women’s roles as caretakers and mothers to emphasize their roles
as citizens, entrepreneurs and professionals.

86.     Use of Project extensions as a means to sustain implementation during political
transitions. The Bank showed responsiveness and flexibility in extending the closing date of the
Project in several occasions. This facilitated the space to support financially and technically the
Project but, most importantly, to develop a policy dialogue and identify the needs of the new
administration.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

87.   The Bank submitted the final draft of the ICR to the Government on March 4, 2015. The
WBG has not received comments on the document. While the ICR was discussed during the World
Bank mission between March 2 and 6th, 2015, no official response has been received.

(b) Financiers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (US$,
                                  (US$, millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)


Component 1(a)                          2.30                2.028            88.2%
Component 1(b)                          2.30                2.53            109.8%
Component 2                             2.70                2.23             82.4%
Component 3                            15.70               15.70            100.0%
Component 4                             1.00                0.75             75.3%
   Total Financing Required            24.00               23.23             96.8%




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                     Type of       Estimate      Estimate    Percentage of
         Source of Funds           Cofinancing      (US$,         (US$,       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                         2.77          2.70         97.4
Inter-American Development Bank                  20.17         20.17        100.0
International Bank for
                                                 24.00         23.23        96.8
Reconstruction and Development




                                          24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


1.       Component 1. This Component supported the Technical and Administrative
Implementation Unit in the MIDES throughout the Project. The unit included coordinators for
technical areas as well as financial and other fiduciary staff. Provincial and comarca RO
personnel responsible for administrative and program operations were also supported. This
Component financed the contracting of the MIS and numerous consultancies to address the
rigidities found in the MIS. Additional consultancies were contracted to facilitate the exchange
of information between the Civil Registry (Tribunal Electoral) and the MIDES. This component
also financed the procurement of ICT and telecommunications equipment for the functioning
of the MIS and other Project activities and the necessary training and services. Financial audits
for the Project were carried out in this Component.

2.       One critical output of the Project is the Beneficiary Roster (Padron de Beneficiarios) that
was based on outreach and registration processes across corregimientos in Panama, and ensured a
large enough coverage among the extreme poor in indigenous comarcas, rural and urban areas.
This roster served to prepare and deliver payments across geographic areas in Panama and to create
Family Committees (Comites de Familias) to deliver direct family support (in Component 2). The
eligibility instrument for the RO program was financed during the original design and received
technical support throughout implementation. The Project financed the revision of the proxy
means instrument in 2012 to accommodate the rapid changes in the Panamanian economy.
Verification of co-responsibilities faced both information and other operational limitations. To
address existing operational difficulties, the Project produced a Strategy for Verification of Co-
responsibilities that was the basis for the strengthening of the Roster in the subsequent phases of
the RO program. This component supported the local teams (provincial, promotores) in the
establishment of Family Committees where social workers would carry out dissemination and
training sessions.

3.      This Component produced the first phases of the impact evaluation including the
methodological design, data collection, data cleaning, and early data analysis. The contracting of
an international consultancy firm and the interaction of the government with the firm resulted in
recognizing the role of impact evaluation in social policy. Despite the limitations due to changing
social conditions (emigration from comarcas), and relatively few additions to the roster, the data
collected in 2014 is the basis for detailed knowledge of the RO beneficiary families in Panama. A
Qualitative Assessment Report of the impact of the RO was produced. The Quantitative Impact
Evaluation Assessment was not produced during the lifetime of the Project and the intermediate
products are being reviewed by financiers and the Government.

4.      Component 2. This component designed, contracted and implemented the direct family
support strategy. The Component contracted more than 300 social workers (promotores) based
on detailed terms of reference that reflected the RO objectives and GOP priorities articulating
with other sectors. Didactic materials used for the inception of families into the RO and for
specific themes (early childhood development, nutrition, and so on) were produced under this
Component. This Component financed the RO communications strategies and informational
campaigns, and equipment used in the provincial and comarcal activities. Supporting the technical



                                                25
assistance to establish linkages with Civil Registry, the components financed ICT equipment for
the Civil Registry to implement the recommended activities (information consistency checks).

5.      Component 3. This Component implemented by the MINSA carried out the design of the
strengthened basic package of health services and the delivery of the packages through the
contracting of EOs. The design of the package included several consultancies addressing: (a) the
territorial design of the PAISS+N programs; (b) revision to the Beneficiary Roster to adjust
for differences between the original estimated target population (based on 2003 Census) and the
existing demand; (c) costing of the delivery of the basic health service package per beneficiary,
including the revision of the costing during implementation; (d) preparation of audit and
supervision protocols for EOs; (e) changes in the MINSA MIS systems to ensure compatibility
with those of the RO; and (f) ICT equipment to support the information sharing between MINSA
and MIDES, among other activities.

6.      Component 4. This Component financed the contracting of technical staff for the
Monitoring Unit in the Technical Secretariat of the Social Cabinet. These technical staff were
responsible for producing thematic specific reports on priority issues using national household
surveys (Living Conditions Survey 2008), like policies for the elderly, youth, and other areas.
Given the importance of the old age pension program 100 a los 70 (recently renamed 120 a los 65)
this component organized an international seminar on non-contributory pensions including the
experiences of Mexico and Chile. This Component also financed consultancies to strengthen the
Single Beneficiary Registry (RUB). These consultancies were addressing administrative, legal,
audit, and information system areas. The implementation of the RUB, although still in progress,
was also an important step in ensuring a coordinated social policy and reflected in other operations
(Development Policy Loans).




                                                26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.       The rationale for implementing a CCT program is twofold. In the first place, a targeted
transfer helps alleviate poverty and improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable and
excluded households in a society. Second, being conditioned usually on child attendance to school
and compliance with health check-ups, CCTs aim at investing in human capital of the most
vulnerable populations, increasing the chances of breaking the intergenerational circle of poverty.
In addition to these effects, CCTs usually have other impacts on family well-being, such as
empowering women in families and their communities, increasing savings, facilitating productive
initiatives, enhancing citizenship by providing a sense of belonging in the society and more. As
such, the full list of CCT’s impacts usually remain unmeasured and can sometimes only be picked
up in qualitative assessments or through anecdotal evidence.

2.     At the closing of the Project, there is no reliable and robust impact evaluation results that
would allow the construct of a basic ex-post evaluation of the impacts of the program. Given the
information available at the time of the ICR, this economic analysis carries out a mechanical
poverty impacts analysis. Using data from the national household survey, we are able to estimate
the impact of the RO Program in several poverty and inequality measures, assuming no behavioral
response from families due to the existence of the program. We are able to compare these estimates
with the ones presented in the economic analysis of the PAD. This analysis focuses on the
economic impacts of the Program, which the Project supported financing the strengthening of its
implementation.

Poverty and inequality Impacts of Red de Oportunidades

3.      The economic analysis presented in the PAD uses a structural model developed by
Bourguignon, Ferreira and Leite (2003) to carry out an ex-ante evaluation of the likely effects of
the RO Program using data from the National Survey of Living Conditions (Encuesta Nacional de
Niveles de Vida) 2003. The analysis focuses on the short-term effects of the program, takes into
account potential behavioral responses of recipient households and was produced to inform the
expansion or redesign of the existing program. As such, the analysis produces the estimated effects
of the Program on a series of poverty and inequality indicators under two alternative scenarios of
program design: one with unconditional transfers and one with collective conditionality,
understood as reception of the transfer being conditional on all eligible children in the household
complying with the schooling or health conditionality. The results of the analysis are presented in
the following table:




                                                27
              Table A3.1 Simulated Impacts of RO in PAD based on 2003 Survey Data.
                                                                            Collective
                                                      Unconditional      Conditionality
                                             Obs.
                                                                  %
                                                      p.p.     change   p.p.      % change
                                                        -
                     FGT0
                                            0.1661 0.0076       -4.6% -0.0054       -3.3%
                                                        -
                     FGT1
                                            0.0636 0.0094 -14.7%      -0.0064      -10.1%
                                                        -
                     FGT2
                                            0.0335 0.0072 -21.6%      -0.0045      -13.5%
            Poverty gap in Millions         104.1   -15.3     -14.7%  -10.49      -10.1%
         Enrolment rate 6-17 year olds     0.7633     0        0.0%  0.0604         7.9%
                      Gini                  0.469  -0.0047     -1.0%  -0.003       -0.7%
            Take-up rate: Households
             participating / potential     (68,995)        94.9%              70.2%
            beneficiaries households
         Average transfer per household                    35.00              35.00
        Ratio of average transfer over per
         capita consumption of eligible     (192.7)       18.20%             18.20%
                   households
          Cost in millions as % of GDP                     0.23%              0.17%

4.      The actual implementation of the Program differed from these alternatives. In practice, the
Program required compliance with conditionality from at least one of the members of the
households to proceed to the payment of the transfer. Furthermore, over time the verification of
co-responsibilities became less strict, given the difficulties encountered at the local level to verify
school attendance. As a result, the Program was implemented in practice as a semi-conditional
cash transfer and therefore the actual operation of the Program falls somewhere in between the
two extreme scenarios presented in the ex-ante evaluation. In addition, the amount of the transfer
was increased in 2008 from US$35 per family to US$50, the level at which it remains today.

5.      Using data from the household survey of 2012, which is representative at the provincial
level and for indigenous comarcas, we are able to estimate the effect of the existence of the
Program on several poverty measures and construct a cost-benefit indicator based on the amount
by which the poverty gap is reduced for each dollar spent in the program. This analysis uses the
ADEPT model and was originally produced for the Social Sectors Expenditure and Institutional
Review for Central America conducted by the World Bank. 6 We therefore have comparable
indicators for similar programs implemented in the region. This analysis differs from the one
presented in the Economic Analysis in the PAD in that it does not take into account any potential
behavioral changes in the beneficiary families as a result of the program. However, since the



6
    World Bank SSEIR (2015)



                                                  28
Program was implemented as a semi-unconditional transfer, behavioral effects are less likely to
affect the results in a significant manner.

6.      The results show that the Program is estimated to reduce extreme poverty by 0.4 percentage
points, from 11.2 percent to 10.8 percent, a percentage change of 3.8 percent. The extreme poverty
gap is estimated to be reduced by 10.7 percent. These estimates are in line with what was originally
simulated as impacts of the Project on extreme poverty based on 2003 data (between 3.3 percent
and 4.6 percent reduction in the first indicator and between 10.1 percent and 14.7 percent reduction
in the second).

        Table A3.2. Estimated impacts of Red de Oportunidades using ADEPT. 2012.
                                                      Without
                                         Observed     program         p.p. % change
               FGT0 Extreme               0.108        0.112      -0.0040   -3.6%
                FGT0 Total                0.323        0.326      -0.0028   -0.8%
                   FGT1                   0.150        0.156      -0.0065   -4.1%
                   FGT2                   0.094        0.102      -0.0079   -7.8%
      Poverty gap in Millions Extreme     14.55        16.29      -1.7346  -10.7%
       Poverty gap in Millions Total       61.0         63.4        -2.40   -3.8%
                    Gini                  0.535        0.538       -0.003   -0.6%
       Average transfer per household                          50
      Ratio of average transfer over per
       capita consumption of eligible                         13.6
                 households
       Cost in Millions as % of GDP                         0.11%


7.      The estimated impact on total poverty is relatively smaller (0.8 percent reduction in poverty
headcount and 3.8 percent reduction in absolute poverty gap), which suggests that the generosity
of the Program is enough to take beneficiaries out of extreme poverty, but not out of poverty and
is also consistent with successful targeting on the extreme poor. The Program is also estimated to
reduce inequality, measured by the Gini index, by 0.6 percent.

8.      Comparing the amount by which the poverty gap is reduced with the total amount spent in
the program we can construct a cost benefit ratio for the RO. Based on the analysis done at the
World Bank SSEIR (2015) we can compare this cost-benefit ratio with similar indicators for other
social programs in Panama and with other CCTs in Central America.




                                                 29
             Table A3.3. Cost-benefit ratios of Social programs in Panama – 2012.

                                                         Total Poverty                     Extreme Poverty
                                   Total             Reduction                         Reduction
                                                                   Cost-                             Cost-
                                  amount             in Poverty                        in Poverty
                                                                  Benefit                           Benefit
                                spent in the            Gap                                Gap
                                                                 (dPG0/X)                          (dPG0/X)
                                program (X)            (dPG)                              (dPG)
All social protection           127,836,601          28,552,188    0.22                13,392,356     0.10
All social insurance            107,810,247          16,642,753    0.15                 6,388,208     0.06
Old Age Pension                  94,600,014          12,733,645    0.13                 4,782,810     0.05
Disability or Survivors
                                  13,210,233          3,047,044         0.23           1,124,895         0.09
Pension
All social assistance             20,026,354         11,143,139         0.56           6,304,918         0.31
School Feeding                    3,376,738          1,931,332          0.57           1,059,200         0.31
Scholarships                      4,421,140          2,142,246          0.48            935,954          0.21
CCT (Red de
                                  2,999,500           2,402,089         0.80           1,734,576         0.58
oportunidades)                                                                      
Food subsidy
                                    312,600            273,896          0.88            219,668          0.70
(SENEPAN)
Food Supplements                    190,795            155,781          0.82            113,488          0.59
Agricultural Supplies               477,381             79,510          0.17            32,306           0.07
Social Pension (100 a los
                                  8,248,200           4,044,362         0.49           1,964,718         0.24
70)
All remittances                   30,378,041          7,259,079         0.24           3,220,388         0.11

Notes: Cost-Benefit is the poverty gap reduction in $ for each unity ($1) spent in the social program. Amounts in
Panamanian Balboas.

9.      The results show that the RO is able to reduce the poverty gap by US$0.8 for each dollar
spent in the Program. This makes it one of the most cost-effective programs in the country, only
surpassed by programs that spent significantly lower amounts in total. A similar result is obtained
when analyzing the cost effectiveness in reducing extreme poverty, albeit at a lower level.

10.    The international comparisons show that Panama’s program is well placed among similar
programs in the region. Costa Rica’s CCT Program is the one with the largest estimated impact on
both extreme and total poverty, probably arising from the generosity of the Program, while
Guatemala’s has a larger impact on extreme poverty but not on total poverty.




                                                        30
             Table A3.4. Estimated poverty impacts of CCTs in Central America.
                                 Total Poverty            Extreme Poverty
                                p.p.      % change        p.p.      % change
              Panama          -0.003       -0.8%         -0.004       -3.6%
              Guatemala        0.000         0.0%       -0.009        -4.1%
              Costa Rica      -0.660        -3.1%        -0.650       -9.2%
              Honduras        -0.350        -0.5%       -0.700        -1.6%
                        Source: World Bank (2015)

 11.     In fact, when comparing the cost-benefit ratio of the programs in Panama and Costa Rica,
 the impact of the program by unit of expenditure is larger in Panama than in Costa Rica. This is
 due to the fact that the generosity of the Program, coupled with its targeting accuracy, enables to
 reduce the poverty gap by a larger amount in Panama, per dollar spent.

                     Table A3.5. Cost-benefit Ratios. Panama & Costa Rica
                                            Total Poverty                      Extreme Poverty
                  Total
                                    Reduction in            Cost-        Reduction in         Cost-
                 amount
                                    Poverty Gap            Benefit       Poverty Gap         Benefit
               spent in the
                                       (dPG)              (dPG0/X)          (dPG)           (dPG0/X)
              program (X)
Panama          2,999,500             2,402,089             0.8            1,734,576           0.58
Costa Rica    5,438,763,984         2,534,516,290           0.47          991,044,023          0.18
       Source: World Bank (2015) using Adept Model

 12.       In sum, the analysis shows that the impact of the Program on poverty measures is sizable,
 it is in line with what was originally expected in the design of the Project and it compares favorably
 with similar programs in the region. Furthermore, its cost-effectiveness is one of the highest in the
 country and also compares favorably in the region in terms of reductions in the poverty gap
 achieved by unit of expenditure. This suggests that the RO constitutes a positive investment vehicle
 to reduce poverty and extreme poverty in Panama.




                                                     31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
           Names                               Title                  Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
                                                                    LCSHD -
Claudia Isern                  E T Temporary                                Analytical support
                                                                      HIS
Benedicte Leroy De La
                           Senior Economist                         GSPDR Co TTL
Briere
Fernando Montenegro Torres Sr Economist (Health)                    GHNDR Health sector
Pedro Olinto               Senior Economist                         GPVDR Poverty analysis
Aracelly G. Woodall        Senior program Assistant                 GTIDR Operational support

Supervision/ICR
Lucy Katherine Bassett         Social Protection Specialist         GSPDR     Nutrition specialist
Gaston Mariano Blanco          Sr Social Protection Specialist      GSPDR     Team Leader
Maria Eugenia Bonilla-Chacin   Senior Economist                     GHNDR     Health component
Aline Coudouel                 Lead Social Protection Special       GSPDR     TTL
Benedicte Leroy De La Briere   Senior Economist                     GSPDR     TTL
Caroline Mascarell             Operations Adviser                   EAPDE     Operations Adviser
Fernando M. Montenegro         Consultant                           DECRG     Health sector
Fabienne Mroczka               Financial Management Specialis       GGODR     FM
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira   Senior Procurement Specialist        GGODR     Procurement
Ada F. Rivera                  Senior program Assistant             DFGPE     Support
                                                                    LCSHS -   Economist
Ludovic Subran                 Social Protection Economist
                                                                      HIS
Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo        Consultant                           GSURR     Social specialist
Evelyn Villatoro               Senior Procurement Specialist        POSOR     Procurement
Patricia M. Bernedo            Senior program Assistant             GSPDR     Project Support
Edmundo Murrugarra             Senior Social Protection Economist   GSPDR     Team Leader
Carmen Carpio                  Senior Operations Officer                      Health Component
Snjezana Plevko                Senior Economist                     GSPDR     Private sector
Rocio Mariela Malpica          Senior Counsel                       LEGLE     Lawyer
Veronica Silva Villalobos      Sr Social Protection Specialist      GSPDR     Early Childhood
Briana N. Wilson               Senior Operations Officer            GSPDR     Operational support
Dmitri Gourfinkel              Financial Management Specialist      GGODR     Financial
                                                                              Management
Sara Francesca Giannozzi       Young Professional                   GSPDR     Economist
Gonzalo Reyes                  Senior Social Protection Economist   GSPDR     Old age protection
Tania Lucia Gaona              ET Temporary                         GSPDR     Project support




                                                32
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    US$ thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                   17.32                      66.54
  FY07                                   73.97                     387.08
  FY08                                    3.90                      14.99

                          Total:         95.19                     468.61
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                   26.94                     128.75
  FY09                                   33.81                     137.54
  FY10                                   38.24                     156.18
 FY11                                    46.37                     206.92
 FY12                                    34.26                     107.42
 FY13                                    24.24                     140.91
 FY14                                    31.03                     175.16
 FY15                                    17.66                      96.90

                          Total:        252.55                    1149.78




                                       33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results7

1.     The impact evaluation of RO included both a quantitative analysis of the impacts of the
program and a qualitative assessment of the program, perceptions, attitudes and behaviors of
beneficiaries and participants of the program.

2.      The quantitative analysis used a survey instrument that collected information on
beneficiaries of the program and a comparison group. Beneficiaries responded a series of questions
related to the program that allow us to evaluate their knowledge and view of the program.

3.      According to the survey, 45 percent of beneficiary respondents indicate that they have
participated in a Family Committee in the last 2 months, while 49 percent state that they have
received the visit of a social worker (promotor) in the last 6 months, with an average of 2.7 visits
within that period. Regarding the quality of the services provided by the program, 68 percent
qualify the services provided by the Ministry of Health as good (as opposed to regular or bad),
while the corresponding figure is 83 percent for the services provided by MIDES and 79 percent
for the services provided by schools and teachers.

4.      Beneficiaries show a high degree of knowledge about the characteristics of the program,
with more than 95 percent of respondents correctly identifying the commitments of the State
regarding the payment of benefits every two months and the supply of health and education
services. In addition, 97 percent of respondents correctly indicate the co-responsibility associated
with attending prenatal health check-ups for pregnant women.

5.      As a complement to the quantitative analysis, the qualitative assessment used semi-
structured interviews, focus groups and participant observations as tools to gather beneficiaries’
views about the program and their perspective about how the program had impacted their life.

6.      After analyzing the information gathered through qualitative tools the finding is that the
beneficiary population believes that by having more education their children will have a better
future; therefore, families make an effort in sending their kids to schools and use the money from
the transfer to purchase materials and transportation for children to attend school. However, there
is no apparent improvement in the inclusion of indigenous girls to education, especially in its
permanence and in their transition to secondary education as a large number of teenage pregnancies
occur.

7.      The social dream of the beneficiaries of the RO gives full importance to education as a
vehicle to escape poverty and highlights the help of the CCT as fundamental to the education of
their children.




7
  This section is based on Synergia. 2014. “Evaluación de Impacto del Programa Red de Oportunidades – Informe
Cualitativo.”



                                                      34
8.     In the health area, positive changes are also evident in prevention practices, in attending to
prenatal controls and controls of lactating women.

9.      There is a significant improvement in that women have more information about sexually
transmitted diseases and there is a positive perception towards the possibility of deliveries in health
centers as a mechanism to quickly address any medical complications. It was also evident that the
monetary transfer does not affect changes in nutrition of children beneficiaries from the
reaffirmation of indigenous values and cultural patterns and the incorporation of new nutritional
and health practices. Consumption is marked by the purchase of materials for the education of the
children of the beneficiary.

10.     The RO Program, by enhancing the role of women in family life, has enabled significant
changes in the role of women but they still do not reach society as a whole. The program is highly
appreciated because it creates a space for integration and participation of women. The observed
ventures are linked to the topics of the training they receive, to the accompaniment of the promoter
and especially the willingness of families to generate extra income through what is produced in
the garden. The establishment of a family garden encourages beneficiaries to think about their own
productive Projects that would generate additional income for the household. The empowerment
of women is manifested in the improvement of their community relations from work done on the
family garden. The training activities have been favorable to motivate them to participate more
actively in their communities.




                                                  35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A dedicated stakeholder workshop was not conducted. Feedback from stakeholders was drawn
from technical discussions during the preparation of a follow-up project.




                                           36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Bank has not received the Borrower’s ICR nor comments on the ICR.




                                            37
Annex 8. Comments of Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Bank has not received comments from other financiers (IDB), and other partners and
stakeholders.




                                             38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


“Achieving Social Protection for All in Latin America and the Caribbean” (World Bank 2010)

Diagnostico de la Poblacion Indigena de Panama con base en los Censos de Poblacion y
Vivienda de 2010, INEC, January 2015

Encuesta Continua de Hogares, Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas y Censo, Panamá.

“Evaluacion de Impacto del programa Red de Oportunidades – Informe Cualitativo”, Synergia
(2014)

“Evidence and Lessons Learned from Impact Evaluations on Social Safety Nets” (IEG 2011)

“Panama Poverty Assessment: Toward Effective Poverty Reduction”, UNDP and World Bank,
Report No. 36307-PA, June 27, 2007.

“Social Safety Nets: An Evaluation of World Bank Support, 2000–2010” (IEG, 2011).




                                             39
MAP




      40
