 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14768

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/15/2015

              Country: Panama
            Project ID: P098328                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Social Protection            Project Costs (US$M):                     46.97                46.10
                        Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       24.0                 23.2
      Sector Board:       Social Protection          Cofinancing (US$M):                      20.17                20.17

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  07/26/2007
                                                               Closing Date:            06/30/2012           09/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (39%); Health (38%); Other social services (23%)
         Theme(s):        Social safety nets (29%); Nutrition and food security (29%); Administrative and civil service
                          reform (14%); Child health (14%); Indigenous peoples (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (p. 8) the objectives of the project were to “(1) improve the
    management and operation of the conditional cash transfer (CCT) program to enhance its effectiveness in
    reaching the poorest and indigenous groups, (2) provide beneficiaries with an incentive framework to increase
    their participation in the CCT program, which would boost their demand for education and maternal and infant
    health services, (3) strengthen the supply of nutrition and child growth promotion interventions in the indigenous
    areas of the RO (cornarcas); and (4) enhance government capacity to develop coherent and efficient social
    sector policies and interventions on the basis of evidence.” The RO is the Red de Oportunidades program,
    launched by the Government in 2006 to target the poorest and indigenous groups in Panama to improve their
    living standards and their access to basic social services.

    According to the Loan Agreement of December 12, 2007 (p. 5), the objective of the project was “to contribute to:
    (i) improving the management and operation of the RO; (ii) increasing beneficiaries' participation in the RO and
    promoting therewith demand for education and maternal and infant health services; (iii) strengthening the supply
    of growth promotion interventions in the areas targeted by the RO; and (iv) enhancing the Borrower's capacity to
    design, implement and monitor coherent and efficient social sector policies and interventions.”

    The objectives of the Loan Agreement will be used as the basis for this validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project included four components. The ICR does not provided final total costs by component, and so only
    IBRD final costs are reported here.
   Component 1: Management, monitoring and evaluation of the “Red de Oportunidades” (RO) program (total
   appraisal estimate US $ 10.0 million, of which US$ 4.0 million by IBRD; actual IBRD, US$ 4.56 million, 114% of
   appraisal estimate): This component was to finance technical assistance to improve the effectiveness and
   efficiency of the RO by developing and implementing an Information Management System (MIS), developing a
   methodology to update and correct targeting and payment mechanisms in accordance with changes in extreme
   poverty and performance, and implementing a quality control mechanism in the field. Activities to measure the
   impact and evaluate the processes of the RO included an Impact Evaluation. Also, the management of the RO
   central and provincial/comarcas staff was to be strengthened through capacity building and training. The
   governance of the RO was to be strengthened through technical assistance in areas such as defining roles and
   responsibilities and developing a clear oversight and accountability system.

   Component 2: Strategies to increase beneficiary families’ participation in the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT)
   program and therefore boost their demand for health and education services (total appraisal estimate US $ 10.6
   million, of which US$ 5.5 million by IBRD; actual IBRD US$ 2.23 million, 41% of appraisal estimate ): This
   component was to finance direct support to beneficiary families for participating in the program, support to
   targeted communities in developing or strengthening local organizations to participate in the program’s social
   audit and oversight, and support to Ministry of Social Development (MIDES) local and provincial operations. Also,
   this component was to finance an information, education and communication strategy to provide necessary
   information to the beneficiary population, including the process for registering and issuing identity cards to
   undocumented (especially indigenous) people, who were identified in a Vulnerability Survey.

   Component 3: Strengthening the supply of growth and development promotion interventions
   (Basic Health and Nutrition Services Coverage Expansion Package , PAISS+N) and securing access to health
   services for RO program beneficiaries in indigenous areas (cornarcas) (total appraisal US $ 20.7 million, of
   which US$ 10.0 million by IBRD; actual IBRD US$ 15.7 million, 157% of appraisal estimate ): This component
   was to finance technical assistance and funds for deliveries in the following areas: i) strengthening the PAISS+N
   with the promotion of community-based growth and interventions to prevent malnutrition; ii) expanding the
   strengthened PAISS+N maternal and infant health services to indigenous areas; iii) strengthening the capacity of
   the Ministry of Health to supervise the implementation of the PAISS+N; and iv) developing and implementing a
   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.

   Component 4: Improving social sector performance : enhancing government capacity to design , implement and
   monitor coherent social policies and interventions (total appraisal estimate US $ 5.6 million, of which US$ 4.6
   million by IBRD; actual IBRD US$ 0.75 million, 16.3% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance
   technical assistance to the government of Panama to build capacity in areas including program and policies
   planning, program design and implementation coordination, and program implementation and progress
   monitoring.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: According to the PAD (p. 82) the project was estimated to cost US$ 46.97 million. Actual total cost
   was US$ 46.10 million.

   Financing: The project was financed as follows:

        A US$ 24.0 million IBRD loan, with actual disbursement of US$ 23.23 million (96.8% of project appraisal).
        A US$ 20.17 million Inter-American Development Bank loan, which was fully disbursed.

   Borrower Contribution:

        The Borrower was to contribute US$ 2.77 million, of which US$ 2.70 million was disbursed.

   Dates:

        On April 13, 2009, the government requested additional time for the selection of independent agencies to
         carry out the impact evaluation of community-based interventions to prevent chronic malnutrition and the
         impact evaluation of the RO.
        On March 15, 2012, the project was restructured as follows: i) due to implementation delays, the Results
         Framework was modified and two indicators were dropped, 24 indicators revised, and one indicator added;
         ii) some funds from components 2 and 4 were reallocated to components 1 and 3; and iii) the closing date
         was extended by 18 months from the original closing date of June 30, 2012 to December 31, 2013, to allow
         for the completion of the impact evaluation of RO and the Basic Health and Nutrition Services Coverage
         Expansion Strategy.
        On December 9, 2013, the closing date was extended from December 31, 2013 to May 31, 2014, to allow for
         the completion of several activities including the strategy for verification of co-responsibilities.
        On May 13, 2014, the closing date was extended from May 31, 2014 to September 30, 2014, to allow for the
         completion of critical activities and use the extension period and remaining resources to finance Impact
         Evaluation activities.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High: The objectives of the project were highly relevant. Despite Panama’s yearly growth in real per capita Gross
   Domestic Product of 1.5% between 1997 and 2003, poverty decreased only by approximately half a percentage
   point, from 37.3 to 36.8%. People in extreme poverty, the share of the population which cannot afford an
   adequate daily diet, decreased slightly more, from 18.8 to 16.6%. The already high poverty rate among the
   indigenous population increased between 1997 and 2003, with 98.4% of the indigenous population in indigenous
   areas living in poverty and 90% in extreme poverty. The immunization rates of children and among the poor and
   extremely poor were particularly low. Disparities in educational attainment between the indigenous and
   non-indigenous population were significant. In response, the government of Panama launched in 2006 the “Red
   de Oportunidades” (RO) program, a conditional cash transfer program to improve living standards and access to
   basic social services for the poorest and indigenous population.

   This was the first engagement for the World Bank with the government of Panama in five years. Therefore, the
   Bank did not have an ongoing Country Partnership Strategy with Panama. However, the project was in line with
   the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy developed the year after project effectiveness (2008-2010), which
   focused in its first pillar on reducing poverty, especially among the rural poor and indigenous population. The
   project’s objectives are also in line with the most recent Country Partnership Strategy (2011-2014), which aims to
   improve quality and access to basic health and nutrition services, especially among the rural and indigenous
   populations, under its “greater opportunities for all” pillar.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial: The planned activities were substantially relevant to the achievement of the project's objectives and
   supported the government's overall RO program. The Results Framework as presented in the PAD (p. 56) was
   structured around components rather than objectives. However, the causal relationships between the planned
   interventions and desired outcomes, and underlying assumptions about how program actions would lead to
   achievement of objectives, were logical and plausible. The use of a Specific Investment Loan as the lending
   instrument was appropriate. The project design relied heavily on the successful development and
   implementation of a Management Information System (MIS) to allow for the tracking of progress towards the
   project’s objectives; this did not materialize. The design did not include an alternative for progress tracking in
   case of implementation challenges with the MIS.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Improving the management and operation of the RO: Substantial

   Outputs

        A beneficiary roster, which was intended to ensure coverage among the extreme poor in indigenous
         comarcas, in both rural and urban areas, was developed.
        In 2012, a proxy means instrument was revised to take the rapid changes in the Panamanian economy into
         account.
        The first phase of an Impact Evaluation was implemented.
        All education service providers (Ministry of Education personnel from central offices, provincial offices, and
         schools) were trained for RO, achieving the target of 100%.
        All health service providers (Ministry of Health personnel from central offices, provincial offices, and health
         care providers) were trained for RO, achieving the target of 100%.

   Outcomes

        In 2009, a vulnerability census was applied by RO in 621 jurisdictions, achieving the target. This was an
     increase from 503 in 2007.
    66% of jurisdictions were covered by the RO with technical support teams for the accompaniment of
     families, not achieving the target of 100%.
    A mechanism for complaints is in operation. The percentage of complaints and claims resolved in a timely
     manner increased from 10% in 2008 to 100% in 2013, exceeding the target of 70%.


Increasing beneficiaries ' participation in the RO and promoting therewith demand for education and maternal
and infant health services : Substantial

Outputs

    Over 300 social workers were recruited and trained to increase the demand for health and education
     services among beneficiary households. 389 out of 621 territorial units are covered by these social workers,
     who had visited 92% of beneficiaries by October 2013.
    RO communications strategies and informational campaigns were implemented to inform beneficiaries about
     their rights and responsibilities.
    At project closing, 79% of beneficiaries knew their rights to access services and their co-responsibilities,
     exceeding the target of 70%.
    Over 5,000 beneficiary families received training on pregnancy care and early childhood development.
    The percentage of households living in indigenous jurisdictions (as a share of total number of households in
     indigenous jurisdictions) receiving transfers increased from 50% in 2008 to 69% in 2014, essentially
     achieving the target of 70%. The percentage reached 70% in 2010 but subsequently slightly declined,
     possibly due to outmigration from indigenous areas (ICR, data sheet and p. 13).
    A targeting mechanism was reviewed and implemented to reach the poor in an objective and transparent
     way.

Outcomes

    In 2014, 72,895 households benefited from the RO, not achieving the target of 75,000 households. 75,030
     households benefited in 2010, with attrition since 2010 in the roster of beneficiaries and lack of new rounds
     of enrollment in the program.
    In 2013, 92.5% of distributed cash transfers were received by households in the first and second income
     quintiles, surpassing the target of 80%.
    In a representative sample of the Impact Evaluation, in 2014, 91.8% of RO beneficiary children between four
     and 17 years old were enrolled and attended school (in compliance with their education co-responsibility),
     achieving the target of 90%. This was an increase from 50% in 2008. The ICR (pp. 13-14) indicates that
     enrollment rates for children in the RO were above rates for non-RO beneficiary children, with that difference
     even larger among girls, but it does not provide exact data.
    The percentage of pregnant women in the comarcas receiving additional coverage by PAISS+N (receiving
     no fewer than three prenatal controls) increased from 60% in 2008 to 69% in 2014, not reaching the target of
     85%. The percentage had reached 74% in 2011 but subsequently declined; the ICR speculates that this
     may have been due to delays in contracting processes (ICR, data sheet).


Strengthening the supply of growth promotion interventions in the areas targeted by the RO : Substantial

Outputs

    Basic packages of health services were designed, a costing estimation for the delivery of the basic packages
     per beneficiary was conducted, and basic packages were delivered though the contracting of External
     Organizations.
    Audit and supervision protocols for External Organizations were developed.
    Information Technology Equipment to support information sharing between the Ministry of Health (MINSA)
     and Ministry of Social Development was implemented.
    The MIS of the Ministry of Health was adapted to make it compatible with that of the RO.

Outcomes

    By 2011, 90% of children under two years old were registered in the PAISS+N program, an integrated health
     service package with a nutrition component, benefiting from the strengthened health care package in the
     comarcas, achieving the target of 90%.
    Enhancing the Borrower 's capacity to design , implement and monitor coherent and efficient social sector
    policies and interventions : Modest

    Outputs

        The Ministry of Social Development (MIDES) developed an organigram to define its restructuring and
         strengthening at the central and local levels.
        A proposal for the reorganization and rationalization of social spending was not developed as originally
         planned.
        The administrative, legal, audit, and information systems of the single beneficiary registry were
         strengthened.

    Outcomes

        The ICR (p. 16) reports that coordination among ministries on social policies remained weak throughout the
         lifetime of the project.

5. Efficiency:

    Modest

    The PAD (p.111) includes an economic analysis that uses a structural model by Bourguignon, Ferreira and Leite
    to conduct an ex-ante evaluation of the likely short-term effects of the RO program on selected poverty and
    inequality indicators. The analysis was based on data from the National Survey of Living Conditions 2003
    (“Encuesta Nacional de Niveles de Vida”). The analysis takes two scenarios into account -- conditional transfer
    and collective conditionality (transfers are conditional on all children in the household complying with the
    schooling and/or health conditionality) -- and estimates the impact of the RO program on the poverty gap,
    enrollment rate of six to 17 year olds, and the Gini coefficient. The analysis found that successful
    implementation of the RO program could result in a 10.1% decrease in the poverty gap, a 7.9% increase in the
    enrollment rate of six to 17 year olds, and a 0.7% decrease in the Gini coefficient. However, the analysis does not
    estimate a cost-benefit ratio.

    The ICR (p. 30) uses the same model as the PAD but bases its calculation on data from the 2012 household
    survey. The analysis estimates a cost-benefit ratio by calculating the amount by which the poverty gap is
    decreased for each dollar spent in the program. The analysis demonstrates that the RO reduces the poverty gap
    by US$ 0.80 and the extreme poverty gap by US$ 0.60 for each dollar spent. The ICR compares these
    cost-benefit ratios with other similar programs in the country and the region, and concludes that the RO program
    presents a positive investment to reduce poverty and extreme poverty in Panama.

    The project experienced significant delays of 27 months in project implementation, which may be indicative of
    inefficiencies in the use of the project’s funds. No further information is presented on the cost-effectiveness of
    the investment of project resources.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Relevance of the objectives was high, given Panama’s poor living standards and limited access to basic social
    services for the poorest and indigenous population. Relevance of design was substantial due to the project’s
    plausible attribution of desired outcomes to planned activities. Improving the management and operation of the
    RO was substantially achieved, with increases in the number of jurisdictions conducting a vulnerability census
    and in complaint resolution. Increasing beneficiaries' participation in the RO and promoting demand for
   education and maternal and infant health services was substantially achieved, with increases in cash transfers to
   poor households and in school attendance among children in beneficiary households. Strengthening the supply
   of growth promotion interventions in the areas targeted by the RO was also substantially achieved, with 90% of
   children under age two receiving a health services package with a nutrition component. However, the objective
   to enhance capacity to design, implement and monitor coherent and efficient social sector policies and
   interventions was only modestly achieved, with weak coordination among ministries on social policies..
   Efficiency was modest due to significant delays in project implementation and lack of evidence of cost-effective
   investment of project resources. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of moderate shortcomings in the
   project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Moderate: The RO program has become a flagship program in Panama and has been supported by the different
   governments coming into office throughout project implementation. After the project closed, the government
   started to finance the entire program. Also, the current government requested a follow-up operation to strengthen
   the targeting and coverage of social programs, among them the RO, and improve the efficiency of the
   administration of social programs. This request is in line with the challenges the RO is facing, such as targeting
   new families to the RO, and adding social and productive services to the cash transfers. Also, the program needs
   to address the weak performance of the MIS and the issue of lack of systematic verification of education and
   health responsibilities among beneficiaries, including poor quality data on school names and children’s names,
   lack of attendance information, and limited access to information and communication technology (ICT) systems in
   rural and remote areas.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project incorporated results from the 2007 Poverty Assessment and lessons learned from other Bank
   operations in Brazil and Central America. Project design was complex. The Bank identified several relevant
   risk factors during preparation. Risks that were considered high included the low capacity in the relatively
   new MIDES whose staff lacked experience in working on Bank-financed projects, and the complexity of the
   inter-institutional arrangements in the government for procurement and disbursement of funds. The Bank
   tried to mitigate these risks by implementing activities such as providing procurement and financial
   management training and conducting regular supervision missions. However, mitigation efforts were not
   sufficiently robust, and challenges in procurement led to delays in project implementation.

   Project design was overly complex due to its large number of dimensions, including program management,
   reaching the poorest, establishing incentive frameworks, developing strategies for families to participate in
   conditional cash transfers, fostering demand for health and education services, providing nutrition and child
   growth promotion interventions, and building government capacity. Also, the project's design did not take into
   account potential demographic changes such as a substantial migration from indigenous areas to
   metropolitan areas, which led to a decrease in the number of young indigenous women and children who
   could be included in a survey to measure malnutrition. Therefore, the results of this survey were less precise
   than anticipated. The project design relied on the successful development and implementation of a MIS,
   which led to M&E-related challenges.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team conducted regular supervision missions to provide technical assistance and adjust project
   activities when necessary. It provided MIDES with training to rectify deficiencies in knowledge of fiduciary
   procedures.

   The project experienced several M&E-related challenges due to the limited functioning of the MIS, which did
   not allow for regular tracking of progress towards achievement of the project’s objectives. Despite its limited
   effectiveness, both the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank approved the MIS due to the urgent
   need for a functioning system. According to the ICR (p. 22), both Banks provided technical assistance to
   MIDES to make adjustments to the MIS and improve its functionality. However, due to technical issues, the
   MIS never became fully functional and did not allow for the tracking of verification of co-responsibilities and
   provision of services.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government was actively engaged during project preparation. However, changes in government briefly
   after project effectiveness, limited coordination between different government entities, and lack of knowledge
   of Bank procedures led to the project starting almost two years later than originally planned. The social
   cabinet, which was not fully functional, was responsible for coordination among different ministries and for
   making critical decisions in regards to the design of the project.

   The project experienced implementation delays of almost two years after project appraisal due to a change of
   government, the government’s lack of knowledge of the Bank’s fiduciary procedures, and the challenge of
   recruiting and retention of technical staff in the implementing agencies. Because of these delays at the
   beginning of the project, the Ministry of Finance started to allocate much less budget towards the program
   from 2010 onwards, despite the fact that implementation started to pick up. This led to a lack of funds to
   implement all activities as originally planned. For example, for component 2, the hiring of a network of
   “promotores” (social workers) had to be scaled back, and for component 3, the contracting process for
   External Organizations had to be slowed down. During the last year of project implementation, the budget for
   the program was reduced even further when the government became concerned about a fiscal deficit.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project was implemented by two Implementing Agencies, MIDES and MINSA. According to the ICR (p.
   23), the Implementing Agencies were successful in implementing the program’s core functions, including
   registration of beneficiaries, defining of eligibility, timely delivery of payments and basic health care packages
   to beneficiaries, and provision of support to families through a network of social workers. The Implementing
   Agencies lacked technical capacity in critical areas such as financial management and procurement and did
   not have experience in implementing a Bank project. Nevertheless, according to the ICR (p. 23), financial
   management functions were implemented at a satisfactory level. Also, MIDES lacked capacity to provide
   feedback on the MIS to make adaptations during the testing period. Due to significant shortcomings in M&E,
   the utilization of M&E data in decision making and resource allocation was limited.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The objectives of the project were clearly specified. The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 55) was
   comprehensive and included 11 PDO indicators and 37 Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOIs). The objectives
   of the project were reflected in the selected indicators. However, some indicators were overly ambitious, such as
   PDO indicator 3, which required the verification of co-responsibilities, or PDO indicator 5, which measured
   chronic malnutrition, a program outcome. The selected indicators were measurable in terms of numbers, timing
   and location.

   Data collection of key indicators was dependent on the project’s development of a Management Information
   System (MIS). However, there were several challenges that did not allow for the MIS to function completely.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The project encountered several M&E-related challenges, especially due to delays in the implementation of the
   impact evaluation and the shortcomings of the MIS system. MIDES, which was responsible for the administration
   of the MIS, lacked capacity to provide feedback on MIS functions during the testing period. The MIS system
   never completely functioned, and when the project closed, the MIS was still not able to produce statistical reports
   and register the compliance of co-responsibilities. Therefore, some indicators of the Results Framework could not
   be measured due to the lack of reliable data. The only functions that the MIS could perform were administration,
   registry of beneficiaries, and payment modules. Both Banks tried to provide technical assistance to improve the
   functioning of the MIS; however, due to technical challenges it was not possible to make the necessary
   adjustments required for the program.

   The Results Framework was modified during the March 2012 restructuring due to delays in project
   implementation. Two indicators were dropped, 24 indicators revised to reflect the 18-month project extension,
   and one indicator added.

   During project implementation, Panama experienced demographic changes that had an impact on the
   measurement of critical indicators. There was a substantial migration from indigenous and rural areas to
   metropolitan areas. This led to a decrease in the number of younger women and children in the indigenous
   population for surveys measuring malnutrition.

   Also, low levels of recording of student attendance by teachers, with recording not in digital format, and
   challenges in matching the RO beneficiary roster with student enrollment data by the Ministry of Education, made
   it impossible to conduct a system-wide verification of co-responsibilities by beneficiary families, which is a key
   component of any conditional cash transfer program.

c. M&E Utilization:

   According to the ICR (p. 11), the weak functioning MIS and the delay in the implementation of the impact
   evaluation meant that there was limited use of M&E results to inform decision making.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   According to the PAD (p.110) the project was classified as category B and triggered safeguard policy OP/BP 4.01
   (Environmental Assessment) and OP/BP 4.10 (Indigenous People).

   An Indigenous People Plan was developed that included a brief social assessment and six core activities. Those
   activities tried to ensure that indigenous beneficiaries would benefit from the RO program, the program would be
   held accountable to the indigenous beneficiaries, and benefits would be culturally appropriate. According to the
   ICR, the plan was hardly supervised until 2013, and by that time most activities were outdated. Therefore, the
   Indigenous People Plan met only a small number of its objectives. The ICR does not explicitly state whether there
   was compliance with safeguard policies.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    Financial Management

    According to the ICR (p. 12), accounting, budgeting, flow of funds, internal controls, and financial reporting were
    adequate throughout project implementation. Project interim financial reports and external audit reports were
    submitted on a regular basis at a satisfactory standard. According to the project team, financial audits covering
    Fiscal Years 2011 to 2013 had qualified exceptional opinions. The ICR does not state whether these issues were
    resolved.

    However, the project experienced some challenges in financial management on the Borrower’s side due to
    insufficient budget allocation for project activities by the Congress and highly bureaucratic approval processes by
    the National Audit Unit for each contract and payment. These challenges led to implementation delays (see
    Section 9a for more details).

    Procurement

    According to the ICR (p. 11), project implementation experienced delays, especially during the first two years,
    due to procurement-related issues. These issues included slow bidding and contracting, the implementing
    agencies’ poor knowledge of Bank procedures, and limited numbers of candidates for various contracts. The
    Bank provided technical assistance and training to the implementing agencies to familiarize them with Bank
    procedures.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 24) identifies several valuable lessons, including the following:

     1. When designing a Results Framework, it is critical that the availability of data and feasibility of collecting
        currently unavailable data are taken into account. In this project, the Results Framework included a large
        number of indicators, and monitoring of most of these was dependent on the development and
        implementation of a well-functioning MIS. Since the MIS had significant shortcomings, several indicators
        could not be tracked, and progress towards PDO achievement could not consistently be measured.
    2. When developing and implementing an MIS, it is important that the implementing agency has the
       necessary capacity to operate the system and that the MIS be modifiable if circumstances change. In this
       project, the MIS could not be adapted due to technical and legal restrictions by the vendor, which limited
       the possibility to adapt the MIS to the needs of the RO.


14. Assessment Recommended?               Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

    The ICR provides a good overview of project preparation and implementation. The ICR is consistent in its
    evaluation and provides an efficiency analysis. However, the ICR does not differentiate between the two
    implementing agencies and does not specify which agency was responsible for what project activities. Also, the
    ICR does not report on compliance with the indigenous people's safeguard or the environmental assessment
    safeguard. It provides different appraisal estimates per component than stated in the PAD, and does not include
    the latest version of the Results Framework even though the Results Framework was modified during the March
    2012 restructuring. The ICR is rated satisfactory, with shortcomings.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
