Document of          FLE   OPY
The World Bank  *                     COv
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RePor N.. P-2694-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION
January 30, 1980
IThi docmn buk  a relted disrbutIon *nd my be ed by redpients oy In the perfondane of
tdir oSei dutis  ha eomts may not otherise be diseloed witout Wodd Bfk *rio,ltto.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Until January 11, 1980
Won 485 - US$1.00
Won 1,000 - US$2.062
Won 1 million   US$2,062
From January 12, 1980
Won 580 - US$1.00
Won 1,000 - US$1.724
Won I million - US$1,724
GLOSSARY
CEB    -  College Education Bureau
EFB    -  Educational Facilities Bureau
EPB    -  Economic Planning Board
IEB    -  Industrial Education Bureau
KMEB   -  Korea Management Education Board
MOE    - Ministry of Education
MOST   - Ministry of Science and Technology
OSROK  -  Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
SNU    -  Seoul National University
TERI   - Technical Education Research Institute
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION LOAN
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:        The Republic of Korea
Amount:          $100 million equivalent
Terms:           17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% p.a.
ProRram
Description:  The basic aim of the program is to improve the quality
and content of higher technical education in Korea, so
that it can contribute effectively to the country's tech-
nological needs in the eighties. The sector program to
be financed under the loan covers three aspects of higher
education, viz. engineering education, management education
and technician training. The program will create a flexible
system of supplying technical skills, remove the principal
constraints on quality improvement and reduce the investment
gap in private higher technical education. Policies to be
implemented include establishment of systematic manpower
monitoring; adoption of flexible enrollment control;
introduction of accreditation to set and maintain quality
standards; adoption of adequate incentives to improve the
supply and quality of teaching staff; and improved financing
of private institutions. The overall program, of which a
part would be financed under the proposed loan, would
comprise about 10 national programs for organization,
curricula and staff development, and about 55 subprojects
for development of physical facilities at specific institu-
tions. A deliberate effort has been made in formulating the
program to rely as much as possible on the Borrower as
regards both procedures and management. Accordingly, an
intermediary institution, the Ministry of Education, would
appraise, approve and supervise subprojects in accordance
with methodology and criteria agreed by the Bank. The
basic justification of the proposed loan is the benefit
provided to the Korean economy through an enhanced supply
of qualified engineers, technicians and managers. The
proposed loan entails some risks, with regard to staff
recruitment, implementation procedures and brain drain.
Incentives and monitoring programs would be used to reduce
these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Program Cost:                          ------ ($ million) ------
Local    Foreign    Total
Engineering education         110       140        250
Management education           50         25        75
Technician training            90        100       190
Total Base Cost /a      250        265        515
Contingencies                  85       100        185
Total               335        365        700
/a Includes staff development for all institutions, public and
private.
Financing Plan: The proposed loan of $100 million would cover 14% of the
total estimated investment program for higher technical
education of $700 million (or 27.4% of the total foreign
exchange component of $365 million). The Government would
finance 60% of the investment program, and the remaining 26%
would be from private sources.,
Estimated Disbursement
from Bank Loan:
Bank FY            1981      1982    1983    1984
Annual              16        37       29      18
Cumulative          16        53       82    100
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2723-KO, dated January 11, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOHDMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUrIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR HIGHER TECHNICAL
EDUCATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $100 million to help
finance higher technical education. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest of 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Rapid Growth and Search
for New Perspectives" was distributed under cover of SECM79-390, dated May 24,
1979. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Developments
3.        During 1977 and 1978, the growth of GNP in real terms outstripped
the target of 9.5% p.a. postulated in the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81).
As a result of a rapid increase in domestic demand, the rate of increase of
real GNP accelerated from 10.3% in 1977 to 11.6% in 1978. For the first
time in many years, the increase in domestic demand for manufactured goods
exceeded the increase in manufactured exports. This increase in domestic
demand, fueled by substantial increases in private construction and
equipment investment, resulted in capacity shortages for some essential
items, and a speculative investment mood. For the first time, a shortage of
certain types of skilled labor became a matter of greater concern than
unemployment, which declined substantially during 1978. For the third year
in a row, there was a substantial increase in real wages in the manu-
facturing sector, which was in excess of the increase in labor productivity.
There was also an increase in the rate of inflation; during 1978, the
wholesale prices increased by about 12% as compared to 9% in 1977, and
consumer prices increased by about 14%, compared to a 10% increase in 1977.
4.        Exports continued to grow according to the Fourth Plan targets,
but after increasing by 43% in 1976 and 26% in 1977, the real growth of
goods and services slowed to 18% in 1978. On the other hand, as a result of
a substantial increase in the demand for imported capital goods, total
imports increased more rapidly than exports, resulting in a sizeable trade
deficit. However, overseas construction activity continued to expand
rapidly during 1978, increasing from $3.5 billion in 1977 to $8.1 billion in
1978. Although the receipts from these contracts resulted in a substantial
surplus in the invisible account, a current account deficit of about
$1 billion emerged as compared with the surplus of about $12 million



- 2 -
in 1977. However, in view of the need to promote allocative efficiency and to
counter domestic inflationary pressures, the Government initiated in 1978 a
far-reaching program of import liberalization. Korea's access to inter-
national capital markets improved considerably enabling the repayment, ahead
of schedule, of large amounts of short-term loans incurred on hard terms
during 1974/75 when the economy faced the twin shocks of rapidly rising prices
of its major imports, particularly petroleum and foodgrains, as well as the
international recession.
Major Trends and Economic Policy for 1979
5.         Economic policy for 1979 was formulated on the premise that infla-
tion and rapid increases in wages were weakening the international competi-
tiveness of Korean exports which could jeopardize sustained rapid economic
growth. Hence, the major emphasis was on stabilization. The stabilization
program has four major components. First, the tight monetary and fiscal
policy designed to reduce excess liquidity in the economy. Secondly, measures
designed to correct structural imbalances caused by inflation. These include
the adjustment of investment priorities in favor of the industries producing
necessities for domestic consumption, the encouragement of non-grain produc-
tion in agriculture, investment to modernize the marketing and distribution
network, and greater investment in public transportation. Thirdly, measures
specifically designed to create greater competition in the economy, including
the deregulation of prices on a large number of commodities, the removal of
barriers to entry of new firms in some industries, and accelerated import
liberalization. In addition, a set of measures designed to assist the poorest
segments of the population who had been hardest hit by price increases were
introduced which include the expansion of public work programs, the exemption
from the payment of tuition by children of low-income families and some direct
cash payments. Although the effects on the economy of this last set of
measures are not anti-inflationary, the Government considered them necessary
for reasons of equity.
6.        While the stabilization program has had considerable success in
containing domestically generated inflation, it has been overwhelmed by the
increase in import prices, particularly of oil. During the first eight months
of 1979, wholesale food prices increased by 6% and wholesale consumer goods
prices by 9%, but the price of raw materials, which are mainly imported,
increased by 34% and the price of capital goods by 12%. The Government has
boldly combined its stabilization efforts with a reduction of price controls
and removed most of the suppressed inflation which had been built up. Most
government-administered prices were increased to realistic levels, including
transport rates, coal prices, petroleum product prices and those of a range of
industrial products. Consequently, wholesale prices are expected to increase
by around 25% and consumer prices by about 22% in 1979, which would be more
than double the targeted figures.
7.         As was to be expected, the Government's stabilization policies have
had some impact on output and employment. But exogenous factors such as a
weakening of the world economy and an increase in protectionism in the
developed countries have exacerbated the problems resulting from a weakening



of Korea's export competitiveness. While the momentum of economic growth in
1978 continued into 1979, a substantial increase in inventories in the
early part of the year was a symptom of the impending slackening of economic
growth. Furthermore, there has been a deterioration in its terms of trade
in the current year due to higher import prices. However, the pragmatic and
effective measures the Government has taken appear to be paying off. The
upsurge in imports seems to be decelerating, resulting in no small measure
from the Government's energy conservation measures which are proving to be
effective. Exports, on the other hand, are proving to be rather more buoyant
in the latter part of the year and it is expected that export value will be
close to the target of $15.5 billion. As a result of the substantial increase
in the value of imports, it is expected that the trade deficit would be of the
order of $4 billion. However, as a result of a surplus of about $1 billion in
invisible trade, the current account deficit would be about $3 billion,
representing about 6% of GNP. The financing of this should be manageable.
Longer-Term Prospects
8.        There appears to be a consensus that Korea should continue to pursue
the high growth path, that greater stress should be placed on social develop-
ment and that there was a need to effect greater financial liberalization and
to free the private sector from the reins of Government control. The mainte-
nance of a high growth rate is essential if Korea is to achieve the objectives
of greater equity, of ensuring that the fruits of rapid development are
available to the mass of the people. However, at the new threshold at which
the Korean economy has arrived, there is a need to redirect efforts towards
reconciling growth with equity. In order to achieve a better rural/urban
balance, the Government has reiterated its support of the rural development
programs, the generation of off-farm employment opportunities and of programs
to improve agricultural productivity. For interpersonal equity, more
resources would have to be devoted to the educational sector with increased
emphasis on improving the lower income group's access to the system. As
indicated earlier, to help the poor, the Government has moved to strengthen
programs focussed directly on the target groups and away from the former
reliance on general subsidies, whose effects tend to be relatively diffused.
9.        Since the early sixties, Korea's pace of urbanization has been one
of the highest among the developing countries. In the early phases of its
growth process, Korea economized on social and urban development expenditures,
particularly in transportation and housing. With the rapid growth of
household incomes and the concentration of population in the major urban
centers, the demand for urban services is rising rapidly. The Government is,
therefore, giving greater emphasis to programs for providing increasing
housing, particularly for the low-income groups, and for dealing with the
problems of urban transportation. The Bank hopes to play a role in support of
these programs.



- 4 -
10.        A further dimension to the problem of harmonizing growth with
reasonable price stability and equity is the need to review the whole nexus of
policies connected with credit, the interest rate structure, subsidies,
resource mobilization, capital market development and financial liberaliza-
tion. These aspects are being reviewed by the Bank's financial sector
mission, which has just returned from the field.
11.        Although the assassination of President Park could be construed as
the end of an era, the demonstrated dynamism and resilience of the Korean
economy, the diligence of its labor force, the efficiency of its economic
managers and entrepreneurs, and the massive investment in the last two
years, all combine to suggest that Korea will be able to tackle its emerging
problems and sustain its rapid growth in the eighties notwithstanding the
change in leadership. The rapidly increasing and skilled labor force, the
potential to raise productivity by adopting new and advanced technology and
the shift of labor from traditional sectors where productivity is low to the
modern sectors where productivity is high provide the sources of growth in
the eighties. Furthermore, although the international economic environment
is somewhat unfavorable, Korea continues to exploit the opportunities to
expand trade and other forms of economic activities wherever these could be
found and is seeking to complement its external activities by undertaking
improvements in housing, mass transportation, education and health services,
which some Korean economists refer to as "the second engine of growth."
External Capital Requirements
12.        Despite the strong possibility that the growth rate of GNP will be
slower than was originally forecast for 1979 and 1980, the external capital
requirements during the period will be markedly higher than originally
expected. Amortization requirements are estimated to be about $1.5 billion in
1979 and $1.7 billion in 1980. Allowing for the augmentation of its foreign
exchange reserves (about $1 billion annually), the gross requirements of
external capital will be about $5.5 billion in 1979 and $5.7 billion in 1980,
assuming that current account deficits of about $3 billion will be incurred in
each of the years. Taking into account committed but undisbursed medium and
long-term loans, new commitments of about $5-6 billion would be required in
each of the years.
13.        While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from the
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected to
derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such sources,
the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that it will
have to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from official
sources, including Eximbanks. It should, however, be emphasized that the
higher anticipated levels of external capital inflow (relative to the Fourth
Plan targets) are a consequence of its higher investment rates rather than a
shortfall in the domestic savings rate. Thus, about 90% of Korea's investment
will continue to be financed from domestic savings. The ratio of foreign
savings to GNP is expected to decline in the eighties, following the
restructuring and readjustment planned for the next three years. Servicing of



- 5 -
the debt should not pose difficulties given the present debt service ratio and
the continuing emphasis on export growth, provided that the proportion of
external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest rates is not
excessive. The projected ratio of debt service payments to total export
earnings is expected to remain in the range of 12-15% up to the mid-eighties,
and to decline steadily thereafter.
14.       On January 12, 1980, the Government announced the following
measures: the devaluation of the Won from 485 to 580 Won to the US$, an
upward adjustment of the one year time deposit interest rate from 18.6% to
24% and of the prime interest rate from 18.5% to 24.5%. The impact of these
measures on Korea's current and prospective economic situation will be evalu-
ated by an economic mission which is scheduled for February/March 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       As of October 31, 1979, Korea had received 45 Bank Loans (inclu-
ding one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,526.4 million in
loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinacing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$900.8 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
16.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea had been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life
in the rural areas.
17.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 million,
the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank $145 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. The
primary beneficiaries of these loans have not been the development banks, but
the industrial enterprises, ranging from large ventures to small ones, which
have been provided with financing through the financial intermediaries. This
has resulted not only in the overall development of the industrial sector, but
has also contributed to the achievement of institutional improvements and of
the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan of $80
million for a Heavy Machinery Project was intended to assist in achieving the
structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is necessary to
ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export strategy. A recently
approved loan of $29 million by the Bank would stimulate and support the
development of technological capabilities in the Korean electronics industry.



-6-
18.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industriali-
zation has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has
played an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been
provided for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity
and improve its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been made
for highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities at
Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
19.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
20.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen agri-
cultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in the
country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for
the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. Recently a $125 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water in
the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and
generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's power
system.
21.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the devel-
opment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors on September 11,
1979.



22.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
October 31, 1979, entered into 24 commitments, totalling $67.2 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
23.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing. The maturity of many of
the Korean institutions suggests that it would be appropriate to adopt a
sector lending approach in some areas, as is being done under the proposed
loan. The basic issue is whether Korea can deepen and diversify its
industrial structure to the extent necessary to ensure the attainment of its
export targets. Lending to industry will be diversified by the provision of a
loan to the Citizens National Bank in support of the small enterprises as well
as a loan for a second machinery project, which will provide financial and
technical assistance to small- and medium-scale machinery industries. It will
also be necessary to introduce RD&E programs which are better adapted to the
technological needs of industrial development. In addition to the loan for
the Electronics Technology Project which was approved on March 22, 1979, a
loan for the technological development of technology-intensive industries is
envisaged in the lending program.
24.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. The
proposed loan will contribute to the modernization and improvement of the
system of higher technical education so as to increase its flexibility and
responsiveness to the changing requirements of the economy.
25.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by the
diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector and
through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for land/
water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and processing,
for low-income housing, and for the further development of rural infrastruc-
ture and facilities in selected provincial areas, which would enhance incomes
and quality of life in the lesser developed regions of the country and would
have a significant impact on the problem of migration to the major
metropolitan areas.
26.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program. Greater
emphasis will be given to urban transportation, in view of the emerging
problems of urban congestion, particularly in the main metropolitan areas.
27.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1978 was about 10%, and its share of debt ser-
vice was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the mid-eighties.



- 8 -
PART III - HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN KOREA
Industrial Development Strategy
28.       Korea's industrial expansion has largely been based on the growth o
light labor-intensive manufactures using imported technologies and a ready
supply of efficient cheap labor. However, competition from developing
countries, with lower wage levels than those now prevailing in Korea, and
protectionist restrictions in industrialized countries necessitate an indus-
trial reorientation toward more skill-intensive manufactures, if Korea is to
maintain a comparative advantage in international trade.
29.       The Government's economic growth targets reflect its shift in
development strategy toward heavier industries with a higher technological
content. GNP is expected to rise on average by 10% per year (in real terms)
through 1991, with the overall manufacturing share increasing from 30% to 45%.
Manufacturing output of the newer, heavy and chemical industries would
increase by 15% (in real terms) per year, rising from 50% to 65% of total
manufacturing output by 1991, while that of light industry would decline from
50% to 35% over the same period. Exports would grow at around 15% (in real
terms) per year with general machinery exports increasing from 15% to 50% of
the total exports and a corresponding decline in export of textiles, clothing
and footwear industries from nearly 50% to 20% by the late 1980s.
30.       The successful implementation of this industrial strategy will
require replacement of the present wholly imported technology with locally
generated and adapted technologies through increased product and process
engineering capacity. Expenditures on research and development (R&D) will
need to be increased so that appropriate foreign advanced technologies can be
selected and the know-how acquired by and distributed to firms. By 1991, the
Government expects to raise R&D expenditure to 2.5% of GNP (from 0.7% in
1977), 60% of which will be for industry. Policies have been introduced to
make industry rather than Government responsible for technology transfer and
development through fiscal incentives to increase industry's engineering
capability and tax incentives for importing advanced technologies. Most firms
lack the financial and technical capabilities to provide the design, testing
and planning expertise required to select appropriate and economical technolo-
gies. Assistance in these activities needs to be given through specialized
research institutes, engineering universities and junior technical colleges.
Implications for Higher Technical Manpower
31.       At present there is a limited supply of high quality professional,
technical manpower, and industry reports a long lead time for higher technical
manpower entering employment to become productive. Improvements in the
quality of existing skills will thus be needed to meet the practical require
ments of the skill-intensive industries. A broadened range of technical and
managerial skills will also be needed to effect the planned changes in
industrial orientation.  The development (or adaptation) and application of
new technologies will require new engineering skills in research, design and
production. New management skills in finance, marketing and organizational
methods are also required to raise industrial productivity.
32.          Finally, to effect the planned structural changes in industry,
higher technical manpower will need to constitute a larger share of industrial
employment than at present. Government projections of net demand for



- 9 -
university-trained engineers from 1977-91 show an additional requirement of
about 165,000 (over the 1977 stock of 40,000); additional demand for
engineering technicians from junior technical colleges is estimated at 135,000
(with a present stock of 12,000). The projection of net demand for
university-trained managers amounts to 240,000 for 1977-91.
33.       Thus, there is a current scarcity of, and large-scale future needs
for, higher technical manpower. In response to those shortages the Government
undertook a massive expansion of enrollment intakes (by 116% for engineers,
260% for managers and 82% for technicians between 1977 and 1979). However,
these large enrollment increases, made without the benefit of manpower fore-
casts, are likely to exceed demand and would, without adjustments, lead to
oversupplies of engineers and particularly technicians by the mid-1980s.
Efforts must be made to monitor continuously changes in demand by type of
higher technical manpower in order to allow for timely adjustments in supply.
Major Issues
34.       Despite the general strengths of Korean higher education, substan-
tial changes are needed in higher technical education to meet industrial
requirements in the 1980s. First, shortages and surpluses of technical
manpower are bound to result from the rigidity of the present enrollment
control system and the lack of systematic manpower forecasts. Second, the
quality of higher technical training relates poorly to present industrial
needs and will become increasingly inadequate in the future. Concerted
efforts are needed to increase teacher supply, equip laboratories and develop
more relevant teaching programs. Third, higher technical education has been
underfinanced over the past decade. The investment gap is most acute among
private institutions, which enroll about 75% of the students in higher tech-
nical education, and whose financial resources are largely limited to student
fees. Major investments are required if higher technical education is to
support the planned technological transformation in the 1980s.
Lack of Flexibility
35.       Korea needs to develop a flexible system for supplying higher
technical manpower to meet the rapidly changing technology and skill
requirements of its industry in the 1980s. Shortages and oversupplies occur
because of the inflexibility of the present system of enrollment control and
the lack of a permanent capacity for manpower projections. The size and
composition of higher technical education is controlled by a quota system
through which the number of entering students is determined centrally by the
MOE for each institution and department. This quota system was intended to
match supply with demand and also to ensure minimum quality standards of
the selected students but does not permit the transfer of students between
departments and across fields. The EPB, MOST and MOE have been responsible
for manpower projections in Korea. However, manpower analysis has not been
systematic. Manpower planning is also made difficult by the long lead time
between entrance to university/college and entry to the labor force. In
addition, students have to decide on their area of specialization upon
entering university/college, long before labor market demands are known.



- 10 -
A permanent analytical capability is needed with appropriate methodologies
for planning the size and composition of higher technical education.
Quality Problems
36.       The quality of higher technical training is inadequate for the
technological changes sought in industrial development. Low quality is mani-
fest in three areas: teaching programs, the supply of teachers and equip-
ment.
(a) Teaching Programs. Teaching programs in higher technical education
are characterized by early specialization, lack of practical content and
poorly developed graduate programs. The structure of curricula for higher
technical education fails to achieve a suitable balance between specializa-
tion in a specific field and basic skills. The early specialization stems
largely from the Government's quota system which admits students to each
institution by department. With inadequate basic skills, graduates are not
well prepared to adapt to different industry-specific needs. This is
particularly detrimental to industrial technicians who are often called upon
to perform a broad range of tasks. Teaching programs also do not provide
enough practical applications of theory. Basic skills training will need to
be strengthened and a broader range of options taught. Coordination between
training institutions and industry must be increased to assure the relevance
of teaching content.
(b) The Supply of Teachers. The acute shortage of teaching staff
which is expected to increase from 500 to 2,500 in engineering and from 200
to 1,000 in management between 1979 and 1982, adversely affects the quality
and type of instruction given. These shortages are reflected in large class
sizes and are particularly serious in engineering, with a staff:student ratio
of 1:44, and management, with an overall staff:student ratio of 1:69.
Staff shortages are caused mainly by supply constraints and unattractive
incentives for entering the teaching profession. Most graduates prefer
industrial employment which pays considerably higher salaries than teaching.
The pay differentials reflect industry's strong demand for highly qualified
manpower and its relatively elastic wage structure, while the Government
bases teachers' salaries in public institutions (closely matched by private
institutions) on the regular civil service schedule. Further, few
institutions can attract faculty through opportunities for professional
development, research or industrial consultancies. Not only are teaching
staff in short supply, their qualifications need improvement. Staff lacking
appropriate qualifications and industrial experience tend to rely extensively
on lecture/demonstration techniques since they are ill-prepared to guide
students into industrially relevant experiments and research.
(c) Equipment. Laboratory equipment and materials, which are
indispensable for the effective training of engineers and technologists, are
in short supply. Expenditures on equipment have increased lately, but they
have not kept pace with increases in enrollments. The shortage of equipment
compounds staff difficulties in providing practical instruction. Graduates



- 11 -
are, accordingly, deficient in performing practical jobs which leads, in
employment, to inefficient design and ineffective quality control.
Investment Gap in Private Education
37.       Higher education in Korea has been underfinanced.  Historically, the
Ministry of Education has allocated only about 6% of its budget for higher
education, the lowest figure among Asian countries. This low percentage is
mainly explained by the fact that about three-fourths of the higher education
institutions are private and receive little, if any, funds from the Govern-
ment. Student fees, regulated by the Government, provide about 85% of the
total revenue of private colleges and universities. Large class sizes and
low investment in equipment yield low recurrent costs per student averaging
$400 in private engineering colleges, only two-thirds the level in public
institutions.
38.       Major investments are required if higher technical education is to
support the technological transformation planned for the 1980s. Total invest-
ments of about $830 million are needed for the period 1979-83 in equipment,
facilities and software to raise the standard of higher technical education to
acceptable levels. About 40% of this investment, or $315 million, would be
required for national programs and investment in public institutions. Based
on projected investments, it is expected that the Ministry of Education would
be able to finance these costs for public institutions. However, 60% of the
financial burden for quality improvement would fall on private institutions.
These would probably be able to raise only roughly 25%, or about $130 million
of the required investment, leaving a gap of approximately $400 million.
39.       Measures to increase investment by private institutions include
raising student fees and introducing student loans, increased public subsidy
and the use of tax exemptions on industrial donations. These measures would
help narrow, though not eliminate, the investment gap. In view of this
shortage of resources, which is expected to continue, Government strategies
should: (a) concentrate available resources in a limited number of institu-
tions in order to produce a minimum number of well-qualified graduates; (b)
introduce a comprehensive system of accreditation so as, over the long run, to
establish, gradually improve and equalize standards throughout the country;
(c) increase public assistance for private institutions; (d) introduce
incentives, such as tax exemptions, to encourage contributions by industry;
and (e) permit private institutions to raise the level of student fees.
PART IV - THE SECTOR PROGRAM ON HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION
40.       The proposed program was identified on the basis of a Bank
survey of higher technical education in July 1977. Four Korean study teams,
covering manpower, engineering education, management education and technician
training, prepared the loan proposals. The interim reports of the four study
teams provided a basis for Bank preappraisal in November 1978. The final
reports of the study teams were incorporated into a loan request. These
reports formed the basis for the Bank's appraisal, carried out by a mission
that visited Korea in April 1979. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2723-KO,
dated January 11, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary



- 12 -
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
December 12 to 17, 1979, with the delegation led by Mr. J.H. Hwang, Director
General, Economic Planning Board.
41.       The loan would provide $100 million to assist in the financing of a
program that would raise the numbers and quality of higher technical manpower
to the levels needed in the 1980s. It would provide support chiefly for
developing staff, teaching programs and laboratory facilities in the following
fields: Engineering Education (gr. 13-19) - $60 million; Management Education
(gr. 13-19) - $4 million; and Technician Training (gr. 13-14) - $36 million.
The proposed program is recommended for Bank financing because it supports the
Government's industrial development strategy, addresses the major issues in
higher technical education and it is well organized and financed to achieve
its goals.
Strategy
42.       The proposed program directly addresses the major issues in higher
technical education. It would assist in the creation of a more flexible
system of supplying technical skills, ease the principal constraints on
quality improvement and help reduce the investment gap in the subsector. A
central aim of the program is to reduce the periods of manpower shortages and
surpluses while retaining selection criteria to ensure that students
admitted are best suited to benefit from the courses taken. This objective
would be sought by establishing a permanent capacity for manpower analysis;
replacement of the centrally controlled quota system with a more flexible
system of enrollment control; deferment of early student specialization and
use of retraining programs to ease the transition of surplus manpower. A
major emphasis of the program would be to bring the quality of higher tech-
nical training up to the standards needed for industrial development in the
1980s. This would be accomplished by establishing accreditation agencies to
set and enforce appropriate training standards; adapting the content of
existing teaching programs to meet industrial requirements; increasing the
supply and quality of teaching staff and providing more laboratory equipment
for teaching purposes.
Program Content
43.       Adjusting Manpower Supply and Demand.  A manpower monitoring system
would be established to help regulate the supply of higher technical manpower
in accordance with demand. Initially, the system would be built up under the
existing, but dormant, Committee for Manpower Development and Promotion in the
EPB. In a second phase, to be completed by the end of 1981, a permanent
manpower planning institution would be established either under the EPB or
MOE. The proposed program would include financing for expert services to
assist in establishing the manpower monitoring system. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government will evaluate, before June 30,
1980, its existing Committee for Manpower Development and Promotion and ensure
that it performs, not later than December 31, 1981, the functions of a
manpower monitoring system satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
44.       The achievermLent of a nore flexible manpower supply system for the
1980s also requires replacement of the rigid and centralized quota system
which controls admission of students by institution, department and field of
study. The new system would be decentralized (i.e., available student places
would be determined by each institution in accordance with overall guide-
lines), be based on qualitative criteria and permit transfer of students
between departments and across fields in response to labor shortages or
surpluses. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government,
by December 31, 1980, will submit to the Bank, for its review and comments,
proposals for a flexible system for allocating students in higher technical
education which will facilitate adjustment of supply of higher technical
manpower in accordance with changes in labor market demand, and will implement
such proposals, before December 31, 1981. (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
45.       Until a more flexible system is achieved on the basis of continuous
monitoring of manpower demand and improved supply adjustments, the Government
has adopted a moderate policy on further expansion of enrollments. In view
of the sharp increases introduced over the past two years, any further major
expansion of intake in technical fields is likely to worsen the employment
prospects of graduates. Uncontrolled expansion would exacerbate already
serious staff shortages, would make it difficult to reorient training towards
practical skills and would increase the projected surpluses of graduates. To
avert supply imbalances in the 1980s and further strains on teaching quality,
the Government has agreed to proceed cautiously in raising admission quotas
for engineers and technicians until such time as manpower information and
improved quality suggest a need for further expansion. The Government and
Bank will discuss in the first quarter of each year until 1984 the annual
levels of admission for engineers and technician training.
46.    Quality Control.  The Government will establish an accreditation
system for assessing the quality and relevance of education and establishing
appropriate training standards. Two accreditation agencies have been estab-
lished and a third, for engineering education, is planned. These agencies
will be responsible for assessing the quality of existing training institut-
ions, setting minimum professional standards for training (in terms of staff,
curriculum and facilities), proposing remedial measures to correct quality
deficiencies and, ultimately, for extending accreditation to institutions
through the MOE. The accreditation function will be carried out through the
use of external examiners. In addition, the institutions will carry out ad
hoc studies on particular issues (e.g., cost analysis) and help develop
relevant training programs. Their scope of responsibility will cover private
as well as public institutions. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government will establish a third agency by January 1, 1981
and thereafter maintain the three accreditation agencies with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Curriculum Development.  A major objective of the program is to
strengthen the analytical and practical skills of higher technical manpower
through improved teaching programs. The content of existing programs will be
changed and new curricula introduced. These new teaching programs will be



- 14 -
prepared by selected colleges/universities with assistance from the respective
accreditation agencies. Management education will be modernized using
teaching materials and techniques relevant to Korea. Course content will be
standardized with assistance from the management accreditation agency. Case
studies will be developed based on Korean examples and new specializations
developed based on the use of modern quantitative techniques. The Graduate
School of Seoul National University will sponsor most of this curriculum
development through support of case-writing and case-teaching seminars for 60
teaching staff annually between 1980-84. The technician-training curriculum
will also be made more flexible through adoption of a modular approach
allowing for two types of training. The first type will be designed to
prepare technicians for employment in small and medium-sized industries and
will provide a broad range of basic skills; the second type of training will
prepare students for employment in large industries and will cover fewer
skill areas but in greater depth. The proposed program will provide
specialist services as needed to assist the agencies involved in curriculum
development for the higher technical education.
48.       Increasing the Supply of Staff.  The main requirement for improve-
ments in the quality of higher technical education is to eliminate shortages
and increase the supply of well-qualified teaching staff. Under the program
the supply of teaching staff will be increased from about 4,000 to 12,000.
This would achieve a more reasonable student:staff ratio than at present and
enable students to receive more individual guidance and practical instruction
in laboratories. The expansion of teaching staff will be achieved by
increasing output from postgraduate engineering and management programs,
enlarging overseas fellowship schemes and instituting special postgraduate
programs to produce teachers. In addition, Korean engineers working abroad
will be recruited to teach postgraduate engineering courses, and part-time
staff recruited from industry. Incentives will be adopted to attract students
into graduate schools and staff into teaching. The loan would finance the
expansion of graduate programs (facilities and equipment), overseas fellow-
ships, expert services and costs of recruitment of staff from overseas.
Similar scholarship schemes had been successful in the past and experience
with recruitment of staff from overseas had been favorable. The feasibility
of recruiting significant members of part-time staff from industry, however,
has not yet been tested. Altogether these programs would meet about 90% of
the total requirement of 8,500 by 1986.
49.       The feasibility of expanding domestic graduate school programs
depends on the recruitment of additional professors, and of students to enter
graduate schools and, eventually, teaching. Korea has had difficulty recently
in both areas of recruitment. The Government has, therefore, prepared a
program to attract more students into graduate schools and into teaching.
This program features a substantial increase in the salaries of teachers
(about 35% between 1978 and 1979), scholarships (an increase from 20% to 50%
of the students who would be covered in regular programs and 100% in special
programs), and elimination of two out of the mandatory three years of military
service to those entering teaching. However, these incentives, while
important, may not be sufficient to ensure the full level of staff and student
recruitment needed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government will take all necessary steps to introduce incentives for recruit-



- 15 -
ment and retention of teaching staff as are necessary to achieve targeted
staff:student ratios by December 31, 1986 (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Additional measures are planned to increase teaching staff,
including overseas fellowship programs which would train about 330 staff at
PhD level within the next five years. In the interim, recruitment of Koreans
employed abroad and adjunct professors from industry would supply postgraduate
teaching staff in engineering. Special incentives, including travel and
housing benefits, would be introduced to attract about 150 qualified Koreans
working abroad to assist, in particular, with the special postgraduate faculty
training programs. This special program would supply about 1,400 teachers.
Another 300 engineers would be recruited each year from industry for teaching
on a part-time contract basis (for a minimum of three years). A special law
passed in 1979 enables the regular appointment of persons from industry or
commerce as visiting teachers.
50.       Improvement of Staff Qualifications.  The qualifications of existing
staff will be improved under the program and larger proportions of staff than
now will hold advanced degrees by 1986. Upgrading of staff will be
accomplished by strengthening and expanding local graduate programs; providing
overseas fellowships to present staff; creating faculty exchange programs with
industry; and providing workshops and seminars to familiarize teachers with
local industrial/commercial practice. These three training programs will be
organized by the Ministry of Education to assist in staff development. In
engineering, selected universities will receive funds for additional
equipment, operating costs and research support according to the number of
doctoral candidates they accept under this program. Nondegree courses will be
provided mainly through foreign fellowships. About 1,020 engineering
doctorate holders will receive one year overseas research fellowships; about
100 management education staff will undertake foreign research or study
assignments lasting three months to a year; and about 250 technician training
staff will receive professional training abroad concentrated on increasing
their practical experience. Technical personnel can quickly become obsolete
unless their education is continually renewed. Continuing education for
practical engineering at the site of industry and university is important and
will be supported under the program. Workshops and seminars will also,
therefore, be a feature of the staff upgrading program: in engineering, 500
staff will attend seminars on professional subjects in management education,
an annual Management Professors' Program will provide local training in modern
pedagogy (2 months long) for 50 professors; in addition, 60 management staff
will attend workshops on casewriting and workshops on the introduction of new
teaching materials. About 2,400 technician staff will attend workshops at
Chungnam University to receive training in industrial trends and pedagogy.
Joint programs with industry organized annually for 250 engineering staff will
include a short period of employment, executing of industry related projects
and special studies of industrial firms.
51.       Equipment and Teaching Materials.  One of the major impediments to
practical education is the acute shortage of laboratory equipment and teaching
materials, averaging only about 20% of the MOE standard. Additional
investment in teaching equipment is an essential requirement in the
reorientation of instruction toward problem solving and practical



- 16 -
applications. The program aims at increasing equipment provisions from an
average of 20% of the MOE standard to about 70% overall in engineering and
technician fields, or from $500 per student to about $2,000 per student. Full
attainment of the MOE standard would require unrealistically high investments
in the near term and would need to be deferred to the latter part of the
1980s. Priority in the allocation of equipment funds would be given to:
(a)  selected fields, such as electronics, industrial, mechanical,
electrical, and chemical engineering, in which 100% of the MOE
requirement would be reached;
(b)  basic laboratory facilities in which teaching concentration
would be increased;
(c)  special graduate school programs for training teaching staff; and
(d)  institutions that consolidate resources and share large equipment
items.
The proposed investment in equipment would enable laboratory work to be
increased in engineering from about 10% to 30% of available time and in
technician training from 20% to about 40%.
Management and Implementation
52.       The overall sector program, of which a part would be financed under
the proposed loan, would be composed of about 10 national programs and 55
subprojects for particular institutions. National programs will include
mainly software, curricula and staff development as well as creation of a
manpower monitoring system and accreditation agencies. Subprojects will
include assistance for hardware (buildings and equipment) at specific colleges
or universities.
53.       A deliberate effort has been made in formulating the program to rely
as much as possible on the the Borrower as regards both procedures and
allocation of funds. An intermediary institution, the Ministry of Education,
will assume responsibility for the identification, preparation, appraisal,
approval and supervision of subprojects. Individual colleges or universities
will prepare and submit loan applications to the MOE for financial assistance.
These loan applications will be appraised and approved by the MOE in accor-
dance with methodology and criteria agreed by the Bank.
54.       The Government has devised an effective organization plan and a
feasible staffing plan for implementing the program. The organization
plan for implementing the proposed project relies on existing line agencies in
the MOE, builds on their strengths and includes appropriate checks and
balances. The Education Facilities Bureau (EFB) would be responsible for
overall project coordination and execution of the physical aspects. The
College Education Bureau (CEB) would manage the educational aspects of
engineering and management education and the Industrial Education Bureau (IEB)
that of technician training. Two existing committees, the Deliberation
Committee in the MOE and the Interministerial Planning and Management



- 17 -
Committee under the EFB, would review subproject documents and settle
unresolved questions on approval of subjects. The Government has taken steps
to ensure that the implementation agencies would have sufficient staff to
manage the sector loan project. The key agency, EFB, doubled its staff in
1979 to 125 and would have 150 staff by 1980. The MOE has also arranged for
outside technical assistance groups to assist in subproject preparation and
appraisal.
55.       The Government has designed and tested procedures appropriate for
the implementation of the program. These procedures cover the generation,
appraisal, approval, supervision and monitoring of subproject activities.
Subprojects will be formulated during the course of implementation based on
loan applications submitted by individual universities and colleges. Some
colleges/universities would not have the technical competence to prepare
acceptable applications and would be able to seek assistance from the
technical assistance group in the MOE. The three MOE bureaus will initially
screen subloan applications and appoint a task force on an ad hoc basis for
appraisal. The task force will review the application, make a field visit and
submit an appraisal report to the Deliberation Committee in the MOE. Any
subproject requiring more than $2.5 million from the proceeds of the proposed
loan would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The Bank will make a random ex post review of smaller
subprojects during supervision visits. After any prior Bank review the
Deliberation Committee will submit the application to the Vice Minister of
Education who, if it involved issues or other ministries, would consult the
Planning and Management Committee of EFB. The Minister of Education will give
final approval of all subprojects. These procedures have already been tested
and found acceptable on five subprojects. These test cases confirm the
capacity of the MOE to carry out the program. The EFB will supervise
implementation of the national programs and subprojects in collaboration with
the IEB and CEB, and will be responsible for continuously monitoring the
progress of each subcomponent. The EFB will submit quarterly progress reports
to the Vice Minister and the Bank. A panel of experts for each subcomponent
will make annual evaluation of project achievements. These reports will form
the basis for comprehensive annual project and policy reviews with the Bank.
56.       General guidelines and criteria have been established to promote the
achievement of loan objectives. Eligibility criteria have been developed
which would channel loan funds to existing institutions which have five-year
development plans. The MOE will approve subprojects based on a set of
guidelines formulated to assure a balanced investment program. These
guidelines cover the share of loan funds allocated for postgraduate education,
participation by private institutions, regional distribution, size of
subprojects and number of subprojects by field. Priority would be given to
the expansion of graduate programs and staff development. The guidelines will
help ensure sufficient concentration for individual subprojects to have an
impact on quality improvements and, to the extent that suitable applications
permit, a reasonable geographic spread of project benefits throughout the
country. The MOE will evaluate and approve subprojects according to their
relevance to project objectives, feasibility of implementation and efficiency
in the use of resources. These criteria and guidelines would need to be



- 18 -
interpreted flexibly and could be modified in the light of experience by
mutual agreement during implementation. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government will allocate loan funds in accordance with
agreed guidelines and criteria (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement and a
related Supplemental Letter). Although the number of subprojects to be
approved under the project can only be estimated at this stage, a tentative
schedule has been drawn up for the proposed programthat allows implementation
procedures to benefit from initial experience in processing the first few
subprojects. Five subprojects have been prepared, appraised and approved
after Bank review so that implementation may begin in early 1980. An
additional 50 subproject applications have been submitted by institutions to
the MOE. Because of similarities among groups of applications, the MOE
expects to be able to appraise most of the applications by the end of 1980.
Implementation of the remaining subprojects would begin in 1981 with comple-
tion by the end of 1983.
Program Costs
57.       Program costs are defined as the total investment program in higher
technical education for 1979-83, of which the proposed loan would finance a
part. Based on the exchange rate of Won 485 to the US$ that prevailed prior
to January 12, 1980 when the Won was devalued to 580 to the US$, total program
costs are estimated at $700 million, including contingencies of $185 million.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% and price contingencies at 24% of
base cost. Unit costs of capital investment per student place have been
estimated as $3,400 for engineering education, $1,200 for management education
and $4,300 for technicians training. Instructional equipment and professional
services are exempt from taxes. The costs of technical assistance were based
on averages of $5,400 per man-month for specialist services and $1,300 per
man-month for fellowships.
58.       The Government would finance 60% of the investment program, private
sources would meet 26%, and the proposed Bank loan of $100 million equivalent
would represent 14%. The loan allocation would be: $60 million for engineer-
ing education, $4 million for management education and $36 million for
technician training. The total foreign exchange component is estimated at
$365 million (53% of the total project cost) of which the proposed Bank loan
would represent 27%. The additional recurrent expenditures generated by
the public investment program, estimated at about 1% of MOE budget, are within
the financial capability of the Government. Incremental recurrent expendi-
tures for private institutions, estimated to average $40 million per annum or
about 13% of their 1978 annual expenditures in the next five years, would have
to be met mainly by raising tuition fees.
59.       The Government's investment program is economical, feasible and
within the financial capacity of the MOE. However, an investment gap exists
in private education. The Government will finance software for private
institutions on a grant basis and onlend the proposed loan funds to eligible
private institutions on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan; the
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk. In addition, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government will (a) undertake a
study before June 30, 1980 to determine the financial requirements of private



- 19 -
institutions providing technical education; (b) submit its main conclusions
and recommendations to the Bank; (c) discuss with the Bank the practical
measures needed to be taken to effect the required improvements of the system
of private higher technical education with a view to beginning by January 1,
1981 the implementation of a three-year program aimed at providing private
institutions with required resources; (d) until such time as such three-year
program is implemented, set aside funds annually to subsidize the borrowing of
eligible private institutions from commercial banks for quality improvement
(representing the difference between the interest rate charged by the
commercial banks and the interest rate applicable under the proposed Bank
loan); (e) ensure that these loans will have maturities of 10 to 12 years; and
(f) allow private institutions to borrow from the National Investment Fund
which provides concessional financing for specified developmental activities.
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and a related Supplemental Letter).
Procurement
60.       Teaching equipment costing about $80 million and averaging
about $30,000 per contract would be distributed among approximately 50 insti-
tutions, 60% of which would be private. Where the aggregate cost of goods
in an invitation to bid exceeds $500,000, the goods would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. It is
estimated that about 75% of the goods (in terms of value) would be procured in
such manner. Items would be selected from the MOE standard equipment lists
which are acceptable to the Bank. Private institutions would procure their
equipment on the basis of three price quotations or may use the Government
procurement agency, the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK).
Procurement for public institutions would be through OSROK based on standard
government procedures which allow the participation of international suppliers
and awards to be made only to the lowest evaluated bid. Contract awards would
aot be subject to prior Bank review. However, the Bank would review, ex-post,
bid evaluation and contract awards in the field, on a selective basis, to
ensure that sound procurement practices have been followed. This selective
review would cover about 150 larger contracts and 40% of the total value of
contracts.
Disbursements
61.       Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made for:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, 100%
of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, and
65% of the cost of imported equipment procured locally; and
(b) 100% of the cost of specialists' services, overseas fellowships,
and studies.
In view of the large number of local contracts (under $200,000 equivalent)
anticipated under the project, the Bank is reviewing an arrangement whereby
it would appoint a local bank of good standing, with a wide local network of
branches or correspondents, and which is authorized to deal in foreign



- 20 -
exchange, as the Bank's agent for processing withdrawal applications against
such project expenditures as the Bank may from time to time designate. The
agent would periodically send to the Bank the withdrawal applications it has
processed, for approval and disbursement by the Bank. The supporting docu-
ments together with the duplicate withdrawal applications would be retained
by the agent for inspection by the Bank. The agent's external auditors will
be required to periodically audit the agent's processing of the withdrawal
applications. The agent would not be permitted to engage in prefinancing
activities inconsistent with its agency functions. If no local bank is will-
ing to accept such conditions of appointment, withdrawal applications would be
submitted without use of the agent, under statements of expenditure. With-
drawal applications for expenditures not designated for processing by the
application-processing agent, and in any case all applications relative to
contracts subject to prior review by the Bank, will be submitted to the Bank
for processing.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The program would help eliminate major constraints on the develop-
ment of higher technical education by increasing the supply of teachers,
equipment and finance. Establishment of a manpower monitoring system and
improvements in management of enrollments would enable the supply of higher
technical skills to be better synchronized with demand and help avoid cycles
of scarcity and oversupply. The proposed loan would make a major impact on
improving the skills and qualifications of graduates especially in design and
quality control, making them more relevant to those needed by the increasingly
complex industries. It would also be beneficial in terms of the contribution
it would make to strengthening the institutions and procedures of the
subsector. The approach to be followed under the project would enhance the
institutional capacity of the MIOE to appraise and supervise subprojects which,
in turn, would be of benefit in implementing other education programs.
63.       The basic justification of the loan is that it would benefit
industry through increased productivity brought about by a supply of better
trained and higher quality manpower to help ensure a cost-effective diffusion
and application of modern technology. The wage bill accounts for a signifi-
cant proportion of unit cost in high technology industries. A continuous
supply of qualified technical manpower would help reduce unit costs of
production. Improved training under the project would enable graduates to be
more immediately productive on the job, thus helping to reduce costs of
in-service training.
64.       The proposed loan entails some degree of risks in terms of
staff recruitment and implementation procedures.  Inadequate incentives may
make it difficult to eliminate completely the present acute shortage of
teaching staff difficulties in recruiting teaching staff, and there is a
possibility that some technologists to be trained under the project may leave
Korea for employment abroad. However, the recruitment of teaching staff would
be monitored intensively, and the Government's industrialization program
should afford adequate incentives for trained manpower to remain in Korea. On
balance, the risks have been reduced to acceptable levels by the experience
and competence of the Borrower, its familiarity with program content, and its
commitment to the program's objectives.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The special conditions of the loan are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 30, 1980



-22-                                                                Annex I
Page 1 of 5
KoRA REPUBLIC OP - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EDREA, IZUBLIC  RF IFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                     KOREA REPUBLIC O                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              98.5                                                       SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       22.6                                   MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOMtE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    120.0        300.0      820.0            450.6       926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(K-ILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       258.0        815.0    1020.0             371.1       73'.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        24.7         31.4       36.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9            41.2       49.0             27.4        49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          49.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            64.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        251.0        319.0      365.0             154.8        44.6         28.2
PER SQ. 1M. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0         1371.0    1593.0              566.7       140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.9          41.0      37.0              41.3        41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                           53.8          55.7      60.0              54.9        55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.3          3.3        3.0              3.3         3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2.4        2.0              2.4         2.4          1.7
URBAN                                 5.9          6.4        5.4              4.3         4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTl RATE (PER THOUSAND)        41.0         30.0      24.0              30.2        31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        13.0         10.0        8.0              8.3         9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.1/f        2.6        1.4              2.1         2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            42.0      43.9              34.1        34.7.
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            80.8          99.0      117.0            106.2       104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     85.0         114.0     112.0             104.1       105.0        120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             53.0         65.0       75.7             57.4        64.4         80.9
DF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0/g        19.0      16.3              16.9        23.5         31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        13.0          8.0        5.0              4.8         8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0            59.0       63.0             61.1        60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              62.0         43.0       37.0             46.6        46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         58.0      62.0              21.9        60.8         69.4
URBAN                                  ..         84.0      80.0              46.2        75.7         85.1
RURAL                                 ..          38.0      36.0              12.8        40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         25.0       61.0             28.4        46.0         70.1
URBAN                                  ,,         59.0       68.0             65.0        46.0         88.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.0             14.7        22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            3000.0       2110.0    1677.0             3790.5      2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3220.0/h    2170.0/h   517.0             1107.4      1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             2510.0        1900.0    1430.0             613.3       453.4        197.6
URBAN                                  ..           ..      340.0            203.6       253.1        260.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..           1110.3      2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         14.9         *-             23.9        22.1          17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.6          5.3        5.1              5.2         5.3          4.7
URBAN                                 5.4          5.0        4.9               ..         5.2          4.4
RURAL                                 5.6          5.5        5.3               ..         5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.5          2.3        ..                ..         1.9          1.1
URBAN                                 2.8          2.7         ..               ..         1.6          1.2
RURAL                                 2.4          2.2         ..               ..         2.5          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                28.0         49.9         ..                ..       50.0         66.0
URBAN                                67.3         92.4         ..               ..        71.7         85.1
RURAL                                12.0         29.9       64.9                ..       17.3



-23-                                                             Annex I
Page 2 of 5
KOIUtA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORIS DATA SHEET
KDREA REYlTBLIC OF        zREFERNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AypAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAllE        sEz      NXT HIGUIR
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCO1E         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  94.0        105.0     109.0             97.9       102.5        101.7
MALE                  99.0        106.0      109.0             98.7      108.6        110.0
FEMALE                89.0        105.0      109.0            97.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0      63.0             42.2        33.5         51.2
KALE                  38.0         52.0       71.0            46.7        38.4         56.4
FEMALE                14.0         34.0       54.0             40.9       30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.0           16.0      16.0             12.5        11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0         57.0      49.0             32.5        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           34.0        37.0       38.0             25.8        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         78.0      91.0              84.1       64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          2.0       2.7              6.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0        126.0     144.0             84.4       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3        13.0       48.0             22.4        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0        138.0     173.0             24.2        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            5.0       2.2              3.6         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7500.0      10200.0   13061.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8        32.7       32.8             36.7        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4         51.0      44.6             54.6        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3        20.1       33.0             16.3        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4         35.0      36.6             40.7        33.5         33.8
MALE                                  49.5         46.8      48.8             49.9        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                17.2         23.0      24.2             31.0        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.4        1.1              1.1        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/i         17.1      16.1             14.9        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3/i        44.5       45.3             46.8        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77T          7.1       5.7              6.2         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.071         17.7      16.9             16.8        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      220.0            193.1       270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            128.7       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     194.0            136.8       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..             96.8       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       9.0             32.0        20.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..            52.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values'of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-$2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /S  1962;   /h  Registered, not all practising
in the country;   /i  1965.
May, 1979



Annex I
-24-                                                                         Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIoNs OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Saa   The adjusted group avertgee for each indicator era popula.iot-weighted geometric mea., excluding the extreme value  of the indicator mad the ecat
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indioatora depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicgtors of acoesa to water cnd excreta dispoaal, housing, incom dietribution cnd poverty ere
aisple population-weighted geometric meats without the exclusion of extreme valuea.
LAND AREA (thoueand  q. ko)                                                             tPopultios perbooital bed - total, urban, end roo-  - Population (total,
Total - Total surface coc  comprising lord  area ond inland care.                         urban, and roal)  divided by their reapective number of hoapital bade
Agricultural - Moat recent estimate of agricoltural area used temaporarily                available in public and private general and epecialized hoepital cod re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, morket and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitatios centers.  Hopitale are establishemnte permanently ataffed by
lie follow.                                                                             at leat one physicicn   Eetabliehmente providing prinoipally custodial
cara are rot iscluded, Rural hospitals, however, include hbalth and ledi-
GNP PER CAPITA (7S$) - INP per capita  estimatas at curreot morhet prices,                 cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (bat by e medical a.-
calculoted by .a.e coovarer  nethod  c World  oank Atlx  (1975-77 basis);              c;iatnt, nurse, midwife, eto.) which offer in-patient  ccosodation cnd
1960, 1970, and 1977 dote,                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admiee,iona  ebeitel bed - Total numbero  adieiose to or diechargee
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual coreorption of commsercial energy                    iron hoepitala divided by the number of bad.
(coal and lignita, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gao-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal oquivaleot per capita.                    HOUSING
Average eize of bousehold (nere:ons per bousehold) - total. urban. and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A houeehold concists of a group of individuals who  hab re living quartere
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if rot avoiloble,                   and their main  eal..  A boarder or lodger may or my not he included in
overage of two end-year eatietosT; 1967, 1977, and 1977 d-t-                            the ho..e.old for  aratiatiral purpoae.  Statiftical daffeirione of hou.e-
Urban population (paroent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
ton  different definitione of urban aroaa nay affect comparability                   Average  oumber of pereons pet room - total, urban, and rural - Average mum-
of doto among countries.                                                                ber of persons per room in a1,  urban, and rural occupied conventional
Porulari- d-odity                                                                         dcellioe  reapectively.  Dwellinga esclude non-permanent structare. and
Per  s. kn. - Mid-year population per equate kilooeter (100 hectoree)                    unoccupL e    p p rit.
of total ares                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings)  - total, urban, and rural -
Per s.o. agriculture land - Computed as above for agrcculrurt l land                     Convestotal dwelling  with electricity in living quarters se perentege
only,                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (perce-t) - Children (0-14 yenra(, vorking-oge
(15-64 years), *nd retired (65 yaarn and over) as percentoges of eid-              EDUCATION
yeor "popul"icn.                                                                    Adiuated enrollment ratioe
Populatioo growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Co=uound an.ual                  Primary achool - total, and female - Total and female enrollmsent of a11 agee
growth rotes of total end urban oid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentagee of re-p-ctively primary echool-egs
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populati.on; normally inclodes children-aged 6-11 yeara but adjueted for
Crude birth rate (per thoua.nd) - Annual livo births per thounard of                      different lengthb  of primary education; for countries with univeral edu-
mid-yeor population; ten-year arithmetic asoragas ending io 1960 and                    oation enroll=eet may eaceed 1Sf percent sisce  -oma pupils are below or
1970 and fire-ypor overage ending it  1971 for aoat r.cont ertimate.                    above rho officil school age.
Crude death rate (Per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousacd of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; aecondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic avaragee endina in 1960 and 1970                   tion requires at least four years of approved pria ry instruction; pro-
*nd five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training inatrurtiona for pupils
irCeeron producsioo rate - Average -uber of daughtersw amar will bear                     ueually of 12 to 17 years of age  correapondence courees are generally
in her normal -eproduotive period if she experiences preo.nt age-                       excluded.
npecific fertility rates; usually five-year  -v-tagea ending in 1960,                Vocational e-roil.e.t (fercent of aecondary) - vocational inetitotione in-
1970, end 1975.                                                                         clde technical, induetria1, or other program. which operate independently
Fanily planning - acceptora.actual (thounana)u  -s nofnatl -nubr of                       or aa departrents of secondary institutiosa.
a-optora of birth-control desican under aus picco of raclo...l family               PunSl-treacher ratio - primary, and aecondary - Total etudents enrolled Sn
planning program.                                                                       primary and _econdary levels divided by number. of teacher. in the corre-
Family vlanning-uoors (percent of carried coier) - Percentaag  of                         oponding levels
arried wonen of child-hearing age (15-4i years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate  opercent) - Literate t dulta (able to read  nd write) as
devices to a1l  married wo=en in Same age group.                                        a percentge of total adult population aged 15 yeare and over.
FOOD AND NL ITRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Index of food production  per caPita (1970-100) - Index nuober of per                  Paasenrer cats (per thounand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capIta annual production of oll food coeoditton                                      seatinm lse  thao eight porson; exoludes  sbulan-, hear.es and military
Per cupita nupply of calories (percent of renuirenanta) - Computed fron                 vehlcle.
energy equivalent of net food supplies  ailable in couotry per oupita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Avilable oupplies coxpriee domestic production, inports lean               broadcssto to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicen-ed
erports. and ohanges S  crock,  Net supplieo  occlude animal fee. seeds,              receivers it  countries and in years when registration of radio sets wee in
quantities used in food processing, and losaes in distribution.  RS-                  effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since moat countries
quirenernt  were estimated by FAO bhaed on phyaiological needs for nor-               aboliuhed licensing.
mal uctsivty and health considering envirooxontal teoperurure, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd
ceighta. age and sex diatributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                  public per thousard population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers incoun-
coot for woote at bousehold level.                                                     -tris and in years when regiatration of TV sets waa to ettect
Per capita supply of protein (gats per day) - Protein cottent of per                   Ne-opoper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capitu nor supply of food per day.  Ner  upply of food it  defined or                   tio  of "daily general intereot sewspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
abore.  Requtienoota for a11 countries estubliohed by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It ia considered to
a minimum allowonce of h0 grams of tctol protein per day and 20 grant                  bh  "dully" if it appears at   least four tines a week
of animal and pulse prottein,fhh1  gr                   ld                          Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the nanher of tickets
There ntandordo are lower than thoae of 75 grans  of  total protein and                 cold during the year, including adeisnione to drive-in cineman and mobile
23 g-run  of     --inil protein on an averago for rho cotrld, proposOd by               units
FAO iD thr Third World Food Survey
Pot capita  protein supply from animal and puloe - Protein supply of food             iLliLOYMENT
derived from aonlmala and plses in grams per day.                                    Torta  labor force (tho.uands) - Efonocially active persons, including ared
Child (aces 1-4) mortality rare (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thouc-                 forces and unemployed but e-oluding hoosawiven, students, etc.  Sefini-
and in ego group 1-4 yours, to children in this age group,                              rios in various countriee are not comparable.
Female (percent) - fem-le labor force as percentage of total labor force
HEALTH                                                                                  Agrculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, honting and ishing
Life e-p-ct-ucc  at hirth  (yours) - Overage rusher of yours of lift                      us percentage of total labor fore.
r-maining at birth; usually fire-your rveragos ending to 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Lehor foree in mining, construetion. manufactaring and
and 197.                                                                                eleciriciry, cater ond gas as percentage of total labor force
lofant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deathu of itfontnuodot                   farnicipatioo rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand liv  birhts.                                               .oale labor force an poerentogen of their roopectioe populatiors.
Accoss to safe cuter (percent of population) - total, urban, und r-al -                    These are IO's ad.hjted participacion rates reflecting age-net
Nunbor of peyle (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable acceso to                    structue of rhe yopula_icr. od long cine trend.
suit cater  supply (includes creoted surfEace water  or cntreatod hut                Eoonic droend-cc  ratio - Rati  of yopulation under l5 and 65 and over to
uno-ctanuiated cuter sach as that from protected boreholen, nprings,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years
and sanitary wella) as pereo.tages of their respeotive populatios.
In an urbhn area a public tountain or otandpoot lo-tad nort -or                    INCOME DISTRISUTION
then 200 meters from s house may be considered as being   ithin tea-                 Percentage of prisate iloome (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
nonable access of that ho.ue.  In tur-  areas reasonale b        tcru   could           percent, riohest 20 perceot, poorest 20 percent. od poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or renbers of the household do not huvo to                     of hooueholds.
upend a disproportic..te part of tho day it fetching the family's
water  eedo.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to esrerot disposal (percent of populatioc) - total, urhan, and                 Rstiruted absolute poverty income level (Ub$ per copita) - urbac and rural -
rural - Ntober of people (total, urhan, and rural) unroof by ecreta                       Ahuolute poverty incone levol ie that income level below which a minimal
dinpoual an porcerntgen of theSt respoctic  populations.    tcreta                      nutritionally adequate diet pIs essential ron-food requirementa is not
disposul nay include the collection  -nd diuposal, with or without                      affordabl
crearocrt, of huran e.-reta and costa-cater by aatro-hor-n  ystcn                    Etisriated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or rho une of pit privies and similar installations                                     Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
f.cululticc per phyvician - Population divided by number of proctiing                     per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified fron a medical school at u_iversiry level.                      Intimted poPulotiot below poverty ine   level (percent) -urban and rurel -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who ere either  'aboolute poor" or
practicing male *nd foeale graduate nursen, practical nurser, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistaot nurseus
Eoononic and Social Data Division
icconeic Anelysis and ProJectiern  Departmeot



-25-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual /e                                                 Projected            Growth rates (X)
1965     1970       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980    1965-75  1978  1978-80
A. National Accounts
(Million 1JS at
1975 prices)
1. GDP                6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8  25,769.0  28,688.0  31,324.0  33,938.0   10.7    11.3    8.7
2. Gains from TOT        140.4      665.3   1,122.9   1,486.4       348.7          -   1,160.5   1,511.0   1,685.0   1,350.0   1,337.0           -        -      -
3. Gross domestic
income            7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4  27,280.0  30,373.0  32,674.0  35,275.0   10.4    11.3    7.7
4. Imports (goods
and NFS)            984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0  11,723.0  15,138.0  16,077.0  16,636.0   22.5    29.1    4.9
5. Exports volume        388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,001.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6  10,210.0  11,994.0  12,294.0  12,827.0   30.7    17.5    3.4
6. Exports
(adjusted
for TOT)            528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   5,678.6   9,290.1  11,721.0  13,978.0  13,644.0  14,164.0   26.1    19.2    0.6
7. Resource gap
(adjusted
for TOT)            455.6   1,719.5   1,039.0        666.0   2,136.8   1,785.4       389.9         2.0   1,160.0   2,433.0   2,472.0         -       -       -
8. Total
consumption       6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15,381.1  16,538.4  19,187.0  21,299.0  23,006.0  24,616.0    8.3    11.0    7.5
9. Investment            917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,275.9   5,070.2   5,120.6   5,874.4   7,975.0  10,841.0  11,900.0  12,852.0   18.8    35.9    8.8
10. Domestic savings
(adjusted for
TOT)                206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   3,708.1   6,569.9   8,093.0   9,373.0   9,668.0  10,659.0   33.6    15.8    7.4
11. GDP at current
US0               2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  19,089.2  25,369.5  35,375.0  47,582.0  60,488.0  72,633.0   20.7    34.5   23.9
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at
1975 prices)
1. Agriculture,
forestry
and fisheries        46.3       32.8       29.3       26.1       25.3       24.9      23.6       22.2       19.1       19.6       19.1       -       -       -
2. MIining and
manufacturing         13.9      20.5       23.4       26.2       28.2       29.2       31.8      30.6       32.9       31.9       32.0       -       -       -
3. Other                  39.8      46.7       47.4       47.8       46.5       45.9       44.5       47.2      48.0       48.5       48.9       -        -      -
C. Prices (1975-100)
1. Export price
index /a             57.7       67.4       67.3       85.2      107.9      100.0     111.7      120.7      132.9      154.1      167.7       -       -       -
2. Import price
index Ia             46.3       46.2       46.8       62.5       97.2     100.0       98.0      105.2      114.0      138.8      151.9       -       -       -
3. Termr of trade
index               124.6      145.9      143.8      136.3      111.0      100.0     114.0      114.8      116.5      111.0      110.4       -       -       -
4, GDP deflator           43.2       70.6      71.0       76.8       95.7      100.0      115.6      137.3      165.9     193.1      214.0       -        -      -
5. Average exchange
rate                266.2      310.4      394.0      398.5      406.0     484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0       -       -       -
D. Selected Indicators   1965-75  1977-80             E.                                                         Actual
1. ICOR                  2.39       3.75                                                   1960      1970       1975       1977       1978
2. loport elasticity      2.10      1.08              1. Labor force (million)              8.9       10.2       12.3      13.4       13.9
3. Average domestic                                   2. Unemployment (% of E.1)            7.9        4.9       4.1        3.8        3.2
savings rate         0.15       0.31             3. Employment (million)               8.2        9.7       11.8       12.9       13.5
4. Marginal domestic                                  (% shares)                          100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
savings rate         0.29       0.25              3.1 Agriculture, forestry,
5. Imports/GDP            0.36      0.49                   fisheries                       58.6       50.5      45.9       41.8       38.4
6. Investment/GDP         0.25      0.36              3.2 Mining and manufacturing         10.4       14.3       19.1      22.4       28.5
7. Resource gap/GDY       0.11      0.05              3.3 Other                            31.0       35.2      35.0       35.8       33.1
F. Public Finance /b        1972       1973       1974      1975       1976      1977/d
(X of GDP)
1. Current revenue        17.8       16.9      18.3       20.3       22.9       22.7
1.1 Tax revenue           13.5       13.2      15.0       16.8       18.9       18.9
2. Current
expenditure           14.2       11.6      12.4       14.4       14.3       15.7
2.1 Defense
expenditures         4.5        3.7        4.4        4.8        5.7        6.3
3. Govornonent
saving                 3.5       5.3        5.0        5.8        8.5        7.0
4. Capital
expenditure /c       11.3        8.7        8.0        8.3       12.7       10.5
Ia  Data for 1965-76 refer to merchandise trade only, 1977-80 data include merchandise and nonfactor services.
/b  Refers to the Government Sector, comprising Central Government (including government enterprises), Local Government and Special Accounts.
/c Refers to total capital expenditures, less repayment of debts.
Td Budget estimates.
/e  Data for 1977 and 1978 are based on revised National Accounts (BOK, August 1979); details of the revised historical series for 1965-76 wore not
available at this time.
Novenmbr 29, 1979



-26-                                                                Page 5 of 5
BNCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
S millioD at current prices)
Actual                                                PrOJected
1969   1970      1971   1972   1973       1974     1975     1976      1977    1978    1979    1980
A. Sum=ary of Balance of Payments
1. ERports (i.cl. NFS)                                      998  1,221    1,478  2,075  3.962    5,125   5,679   9,111  12,328  15,940  18,942  21,512
2. Imports (incl. NPS)                                    1,880  2,064    2,490  2,577  4,368    7,209   7,464    9,493  12,329   17,264  22,321  25.267
3. Resource balance                                        -882   -843  -1,012    -502   -406  -2,084  -1,785           -382       -1  -1,324  -3,379  -3,755
4. Net factor service income
(1) Net interest payments                                  2    -29       -91    -138   -166    -229       -399    -411       -479    -702    -790    -997
of which Interest on public MET loans              -47    -68       -89   -120   -150       -201      -290     -345    -437      -653  -1,065  -1,374
(2) Direct investment income                              -6      -8        -      -2       1       -8       -5      -37       -63      -80      -65      -46
(3) Workers' remittanoca (net) /a                          -       -        -       -       -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -
(4) Other factor service intome (net)                     91      77       84    101       72       74        76      167      332      549      787      916
5. Current transfers (net)                                  246      180      171     170    190       224      226      349      223       472      500      600
6. Balane. o. current aeCCount                             -549   -623      -848   -371   -309  -2.023  -1,887          -314        12  -1,085  -2.947  -3.282
7. Private direct investment                                  16     65        43      74    137       104       53       76      104       101      110      125
8. Official capital grants                                   150    131        84      87      61       64        -        -         -        -        -        -
Public MI & LT Loans
9. Disbursements                                            660    414       625      735     757   1,155    1,687    1,701   2,212   3,919   4,965   5,275
10. Ameorti.ation                                            109    205       215    289       334      391      368      494      720   1,142   1,500    1,700
11. Net dinburse.ents                                        551     209      410    446    423         764   1,319    1,207   1,492   2.777    3,465   3,575
Other M 6 LT Loans
12. Disbursements                                              17     78        33      49      71      174       85      115       46         -        -        -
13. An-rti.ation                                                3       8       10      10      15       23       28      105       71       97        75       72
14. Net disbursements                                          14     70        23      39      56      151       57       10      -25      -97       -75      -72
15. Use of IMF resources /b                                     -    -10        -8    -10        -      132      130       97      -25        -2                 -
16. Short-tore capital transactions                           57    122        135    -19       82     -45       680      357        21  -1,171       400      500
17. Capital trnsctions NEI /c                                -78       71      112    -87   -110        868      141      -14    -233        108       70      154
18. Change ic reuseves (- - increase) /d                    -161    -35         49   -159   -340        -15    -493  -1,419  -1,346        -631  -1,023  -1.000
19. Foreign exchange reserven /  (end of period)             549    584        535    694  1,034    1,049    1,542    2,961   4.307   4,938   5,961    6,961
B. Grant and Loon  Commitments
1. Official gront                                           150    131        84      87      61        64        -        -        -        -
2. Total public M 6 LT loans                                753    475       689    813  1,073    1,972    1,304   3,613   3,304   5,014
(1) IBRD                                                  65      40       85      73    150        85   382.5       372       335      659
(2) IDA                                                   15      15        7      26      20        -  -               -        -        -
(3) Other  uitilatera.1 /f                                25      2J       81      68      46       89   101.5        114      135       50
(4) Governments /g                                       102    161       255    479      383      477      360      917       406   1.190
Of which centraIly planned economics                 -        -        -       -       -        -        -        -         -        -
(5) Suppliers                                            374     134      248      94    223       486      232      689   1,144    1.027
(6) Financial initti..tons                               144    104        13      73    240       737      193    1,448   1,216    1,966
(7) Bonds                                                  -       -        -       -       -       19         -       60       68      122
(8) Public loans NEI /h                                   28       1        -       -      11       79       34         -        -        -
3. Other M & LT Ioane                                        100      26       67      74    213       120      138       97        16        -
Debt ace Debt Services
Public debt ontutanding 6 disbursed  (end of period)                               2,691  3,199   3,982   5,277   6,659   8,472    11,992
Interent on public debt                                                               120    150       201      290      389      437        653
Repaynents on public debt                                                             289    334       391      368      504      717    1,142
Tctal public debt service                                                             409    484       592      658      893   1,154       1,795
Other debt aervice (net)                                                               23      33       54       60      103       125       140
Total oebt service (net)                                                              432    517       646      718      996   1,279      1,935
Borden on Esport  arns  (2)
Public debt service                                                                  19.7    12.2     11.6     11.6      9.8      9.2       11.3
Total debt nervice                                                                  20.8   13.1    12.6    12.6    10.9    10.2             12.1
TDS + Direct Invest. IDo.                                                            20.7   13.1    12.4       12.6     11.3    10.7        12.6
Average Teens on hb.blic Debt
Itterest an 2 prior year DO6D                                                        5.3     5.6       6.3      7.6      8.2      7.3       7.7
A-ortization an 2 prior year DO6D                                                    12.9   12.4      12.2      9.2     10.9     11.9       13.5
IBRD debt outstacding  & disbursed                                                     94.7  139.8   223.8   403.5   659.0   835.1  1,123.2
IBRD as 7 public debt  60D                                                              3.5     4.4      5.6      7.7      9.9      9.9        9.4
IBRD as 2 public debt service                                                           1.7    2.5       3.3      4.9      5.7       6.7       6.4
IDA debt cutntanding 6 disbursed                                                       47.1   58.5      78.3    92.7   102.4   111.1         114.4
IDA es 2 public debt O0D                                                                1.8     1.8      2.0      1.8      1.5       1.3       1.0
IDA ns 2 p.blic debt nervi-e                                                            0.1    0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1        0.1
External Debt (Disbursed Only) Outstanding December 31. 1978    Aeount                  2
1. IBRD                                                                1,123.2       9.4
2. Bank Group /I                                                       1.237.5       10.3
3. other multilateral                                                    400.9        3.3
4. G-verneent                                                          3,353.9      28.0
Of which centrally planne  ecn.        is                                -         -
5. Suppliers                                                           3,711.5      31.0
6. Financial Institutions                                              3,021.4      25.2
7. Bonds                                                                 266.2       2.2
8. Other public debt  ..i.-                                                             -
9. Total public debt                                                  11,991.6     100.0
10. Other MILT debt                                                       461.2
11. Total public and otber MLT debt (disbursed)                        12,452.8
12. Total public and other MILT debt (iel. undi.bursed)                19,080.7
C. Mee.randuc Items
1. Grunt eleeent of total co- iteentS                      25.2   25.8      30.5   37.2   25.2       27.7      10.6     11.1      8.0      7.4
2. Average interest (0)                                     5.1     5.1      5.2     4.8    6.1        8.0      7.9      8.0      8.2      8.8
3. Average maturity (years)                                14.1   17.9    19.0   23.6   18.3          11.6     13.0    13.0      11.4    14.4
/   Included in other factor service incoes.
/b  Net of "draings" and "repaymeet by purchase" (IFS).
/c Includes borrovings by the banking system.
id    -ciude. net use of IMF  -rsuorces which are shown sep-rately.
/. "Interntional BIeserve" (IFS).
/f ADB.
L& Includes bilateral ODA, Eximbankn, official export credits, including US CCC Credits.
/h Other.guaranteed private loans.
/i Priv-te loans.
i Fxcludes IFC.
November 29, 1979



-27-                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                               Amount ($ million)
Credit  Calendar                                                     (less cancellations)
Number    Year        Borrower             Purpose                Bank   TW   IDA  Undisbursed
Fourteen Loans and eight credits fully disbursed                  641.4         106.8
906       1973   Republic of Korea   Education II                 23.0                     2.4
917       1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                      80.0                     1.6
942      1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production               7.0                     0.2
953      1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                       25.0                     0.5
994      1974   AFDC                   Agriculture                13.0                     1.2
1070      1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities-Gwangju 15.0                          3.5
1096      1975   Republic of Korea   Education III                 22.5                     5.4
1101      1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                   100.0                     3.2
1175      1975   SMIB I                 Dev. Fin. Co.              30.0                     0.1
1193      1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated             15.0                     1.1
Dairy Development
1203      1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III                  90.0                    17.6
1216 &    1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-                  20.0                     0.2
1218-T                                  structure 1                      40.0               0.4
1319      1976   ADC                    Irrigation                 29.0                    25.8
1328      1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit           20.0                     2.3
1338      1976   KDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.           82.5                     3.3
1364      1977   ADC                    Irrigation                 95.0                    77.7
1401      1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                      67.0                    62.7
1461      1977   KDFC VI                Dev. Finance Co.           70.0                     3.2
1466      1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery               80.0                    29.2
14.74     1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training           23.0                    18.5
1503      1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agricul/Irrigation            36.0                    36.0
1507      1978   SMIB II                Dev. Finance Co.           55.0                     3.0
1530      1978   Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastructure II  95.0                         64.7
1542      1978   Republic of Korea   Railway VI                   120.0                    62.4
1574      1978   KDB III                DFC                       110.0                    60.3
1635      1978   KDFC VII               Dev. Finance Co.          100.0                    58.1
1640      1978   Republic of Korea   Highways IV                  143.0                   142.8
1666      1979   Republic of Korea   Chungju Multipurpose    125.0                        125.0
1676      1979   Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology   29.0                         28.9
1749      1979   SMIB III               Dev. Finance Co.           60.0                    59.5
1758 L    1979   Second Gwangju                                    65.0                    65.0
Regional Cities
Total                                                2,486.4  40.0  106.8    965.8
of which has been repaid                              99.9    -      1.5
Total now outstanding                                2,386.5  40.0  105.3
Amount sold                    8.5
of which has been repaid   3.9                         4.6    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                    2,381.9  40.0  105.3
Total undisbursed                                      965.4   0.4             965.8
La Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-28-                    Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of October 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                       Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business               Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                   Development Financing            -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.         Textiles                         1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                  4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -      0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                   Development Financing            -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Stai & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers                 6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                           2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -     0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                   Development Financing          17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products                      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                   0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market                    -     0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market                  15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                   Development Financing            -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,       Electronic Products
Ltd                                                     -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                   Capital Market                   -      0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star                                               -      1.5    1.5
Total gross commitment                                99.4   19.3  118.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               49.4    2.1   51.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                     50.0   17.2   67.2
Total undisbursed                                       -       -      -
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



-29-                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16. 1973;
Effective Date:  April 24. 1974; Closing Date:  December 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical implemen-
tation is almost completed. The contractor for the last cereal plant
civil works declared bankruptcy, but other contractors have now completed
the work. Disbursements, as of October 31, 1979, were over 97% of the
loan, and have now been completed. It is planned that all plants will
operate on a pilot basis in 1979 reaching, on average, 75% of capacity in
1980.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7. 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are mainly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance pro-
cessing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, and also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds before the
Closing Date. Disbursements as of October 31, 1979 were about 91% of the loan.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4. 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farms; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and technical assistance for both farm development
and processing. The effective date was delayed for nearly a year but the
implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be completed ahead
of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and supply 8% more
cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the farmers has
been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture quality and
establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a low-cost
dairy industry in Korea. The expansion of processing facilities is prog-
ressing steadily and it is anticipated that the actual capacity will be
significantly above the original estimate. KDBC's financial condition improved
during the last two years. The general prospects are for a gradually
improving trend. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were about 93% of
the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4. 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood, Roads
and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. The Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation
components will be completed by the Closing Date. Project monitoring and
reporting continue to be satisfactory, the Hydrologic Services Study has been
completed and the evaluation study has produced useful results. As of
October 31, 1979, disbursements were 99% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project: 29.0 Million
Loan of August 5. 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work is progressing on the first
of five major civil work contracts. A second contract was awarded in
July 1979. Altogether, the five contracts will involve construction of 8
large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main and secondary canals
and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The project, which will
require five years to complete, also involves construction of 80 km of
river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as well as
feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
The project is currently two years behind schedule due to major shortfalls
in local budget allocations. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were
over 11 of the loan amount.



-31-                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1328   Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
for medium and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm fruit storage. The loan became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily and total lending is on
schedule. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were about 89% of the loan
amount.
Loan No. 1364   Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam has been
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule and construction is
progressing well; however, the irrigation subprojects are behind schedule
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations. As of October 31, 1979
disbursements were over 18% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1503   Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.
Construction will be carried out under seven civil works contracts and three
were awarded, about 12 months behind schedule due to shortfalls in local
budget allocations.



ANNEX II
-32-                   Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 43 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The 1978 program for river training, water supply and rural
telephones was completed on schedule and the 1979 program has progressed
well. Design work on the minor irrigation component is proceeding
satisfactorily and contracts have been awarded for 16 subprojects. The
total area of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,235 ha.
As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were about 32% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1666    Chungiu Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following
its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood damage, generate
an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW of
peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal features of the
project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han River, a power
plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated transmission
facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam;
relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway, protective works in
the reservoir area including the raising of an existing embankment of a
cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation of a resettlement
program for some 9,300 families affected by the project; and consulting
services.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28. 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily.  Disbursements of the loan are about complete.
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23. 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-
prises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of October 31,
1979, disbursements were 96% of the total loan amount.



ANNEX II
-33-                 Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977: Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78. KDFC's
performance has been very satisfactory. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements
were 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million; $141 million above
the appraisal estimate of $255 million.  This is due to increases in
scope to enhance the company's ability to manufacture nuclear power
plant; devaluation of the U.S. dollar; and local inflation. The company
is preparing a detailed financing plan to cover the cost overrun which
will be submitted to the Bank for review shortly. The market prospects
for the project have been affected by the licensing of other power plant
manufacturers in Korea thereby leading to the possibility of under-
utilization of the project facilities. This has been brought strongly to
the Government's attention. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were about
64% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A portion of the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist
small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross
capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements
were about 95% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1574      Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Overall progress
is satisfactory. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were over 45% of the
loan amount.



-34-                    ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979 Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million
would be earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at
a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order
to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan was made available
to the Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company
affiliated to KDFC, by way of subloans. As of October 31, 1979, about 42%
of the loan had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29. 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983
After initial delays in finalizing specifications and bidding
documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the project is
progressing satisfactorily.  Bids have been invited for a major proportion of
the equipment. Key personnel appointments required to strengthen management
capabilities at the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) have been
made.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically
produced capital goods (estimated at 60%). To ensure that a reasonable
proportion of the loan is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects,
an amount of $25 million of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to
finance: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b)
projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater
than $8,500. The loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the
Government's policy of increasing the regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure, and also to continue
SMIB support of projects which would complement large-scale manufacturing
enterprises.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31. 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related civil



ANNEX II
_35-                     Page 9 of 12 pages
works. Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to
initial delays and some project changes. The project is now making satisfactory
progress. About 88% of the equipment has been contracted, and 60% delivered;
furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all completed
by the end. of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well under way.
As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were completed under the Credit and
reached about 90% of the total loan amount, which is expected to be fully
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31. 1975;
Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30. 1980
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (EDE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation has improved for
the MOE part of the project and is about six months behind schedule compared
with being about one year behind schedule in early 1978. Implementation of
the ALA part is satisfactory. Training operations have commenced in five
VTIs. Project completion is expected before the Closing Date of June 30, 1980
for both parts of the project. Estimated total project cost now is expected
to be below, but close to the appraisal estimates. As of October 31, 1979,
disbursements were 76% of the total loan and were close to the original
forecasts.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22. 1977; Effective Date:  October 25. 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance, part of which is being
provided by UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany. The implementation
schedule has been revised and is about five months behind the original
schedule. Two civil works contracts were awarded in November 1978. Equip-
ment procurement has commenced for two VTIs and the NCVTI with about $5.0
million purchased. Disbursement should improve significantly. Technical
assistance from UNDP and Germany is satisfactory.  The project is facing a
moderate financial problem, mainly caused by the sharp increase in construct-
ing costs, about 140% over the original estimate of unit building costs. The
Government's attention has been drawn to the importance of adequate budgetary
provisions. As of October 31, 1979, disbursement was about 20% of the total
loan.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4. 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of



-36-                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. The first two hotels with 600
rooms were completed and opened for operations on April 1, 1978. Negotiations
with other private investors are under way for two more hotels and also for
apartments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. The total amount of
the loan is expected to be disbursed by the Closing Date.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads, a city
market fishery harbor infrastructure and building complex and associated
electrical works have been completed. Installation of refrigeration and ice
handling equipment at the fishery complex has experienced some delays; the
fishery complex is now expected to be fully operational by early 1980.
Construction of houses at all three sites has been completed and the sites
are fully occupied. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions
of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the
project has moved extremely well. As of October 31, 1979, disbursement was
about 77% of the loan amount.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Civil works and provision of equipment financed under the First
Port Project are practically completed. The final estimated cost is $143
million including $101 million foreign exchange. The excess foreign exchange
requirement over the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being provided
by a Saudi Fund for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean Government;
this loan was based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements of $115
million arrived at following the first large increase in the price of
petroleum products. The balance of the latter loan will be spent on
additional civil works. The project is practically completed.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,



37                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$96.4 million equivalent. About 97% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed
by October 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways totaling
about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c)
feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provincial
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All contracts for construction
and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasibility studies by consultants
started in January 1978, and are now proceeding satisfactorily. As of
October 31, 1979, disbursements were over 80% of the total loan. The Saudi
Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35 million to assist in financing
the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 28, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project, with ancilliary works;
rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5;
(b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container handling equipment, and
tugboats; (c) engineering consultant services and (d) techmical assistance
and training. The first contract has just been let following delay in
appointing the consultants for final engineering. Estimated costs have
increased to $167 million ($95 foreign exchange) compared with the appraisal
estimate of $112 ($70 foreign exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial
accounting from January 1, 1982. Traffic and especially containerized
general cargo traffic continues to increase at Busan.



-38-                    ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3. 1978; Closing Date:
June 30. 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.
Bids have been received for about 96% of the Bank-financed items. Consultants
have been selected to carry out feasibility studies of major investment
items for 1980 and 1981. As of October 31, 1979, disbursements were 48%
of the total loan.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and bids on the remaining roads were received,
and contracts awarded August 1979. A contract for the study was signed, and
work started, in September 1979.



ANNEX III
-39-                         Page 1
KOREA
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Completion of feasibility study:    February 1979
(b)  Departure of preappraisal mission:  October 1978
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:       March 1979
(d)  Agency which prepared the project:  Ministry of Education
(e)  Negotiations completed:                December 17, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         June 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
The following conditions are incorporated in the Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements:
(a) The Government will ensure that a manpower monitoring system
satisfactory to the Bank will be functioning by December 31, 1981
(para. 43);
(b) The Government will develop, by December 31, 1981, in consultation
with the Bank, and thereafter maintain a more flexible system for
allocation of students in higher technical education (para. 44);
(c) The Government will establish by January 1, 1981 a third
accreditation agency (for engineering education) and thereafter
maintain three accreditation agencies with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (para. 46);
(d) The Government will introduce such incentives for recruitment and
retention of teaching staff as are necessary to achieve targeted
staff: student ratios by 1986 (para. 49);



ANNEX III
Page 2
-40-
(e)  All subproject applications with requests for Bank financing
exceeding $2.5 million equivalent would be sent to the Bank for
prior review (para. 55);
(f) The Government will allocate loan funds in accordance with agreed
guidelines and criteria (para. 56); and
(g) The Government will adopt a number of measures to enhance its
assistance to private institutions. (para. 59).



I BRD 12351 R
t v  >   g X p  27-          i28                            29,                     FEBRUARY Th
.           . ,j  ;' WA               .  NORT H   KOREA
C KI                                                                                        -IA
Japa                                           .. Serr of ', ;   >   t \  \1 4      a e                      fEast  Sea
Yellow                        St -
Se) 7              y \                                        GYE                                            WEON'
v      .v Pac,f                                      "?,c                                                                t                            5
^ >    , <<.,X, /           eun>9,~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gognun
4~~~5 ~                                                                               ++Cfi  u  rxlyeunornntrcto
EaS,~  F     Oce an                                        Eienb
China Sea,
125'                         126'                                 sh
ThE b7ERUUiRE ASOFE RR FU' RP dR .OF        isch                                                                   engeo
pl~y URUFRRR  -F FOYF- by FEE                               Anyong                            nI)enso                            \
37,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f3.
-37'
Cheongju   1)~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Gyonj
8eebseenq~~~  \        ~          B U 
tJJJ      ~                ~JSG
0 7                            E      NeogM
-~~~~              N~~~~~~q~ e 0ri u
Beben~-'                                                     
s            hu~~~RilasUde RStUtO
gseungpot
Milo ~ ~ P01
-  - - IRoRwasRR  bundeconsruoios
-34-                                                                                                   Airp~~JJUa  o  0  orets o 10 14  O
E                      0     20    40    60    so    1~~~~0   6   83 10      I00
<  ,SeOgettpo                                                         MlILES
2,5'                             126'                            127'                            128'                           129.



