Document of
The World Bank                t e.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2723a-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
SECTOR PROGRAM ON
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION
January 11, 1980
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Won 485 = US$1.00
Won 100 = US$0.2062
GLOSSARY
CEB    -  College Education Bureau
EFB    -  Educational Facilities Bureau
EPB    -  Economic Planning Board
IEB    -  Industrial Education Bureau
KMEB   -  Korea Management Education Board
MOE    - Ministry of Education
MOST      Ministry of Science and Technology
OSROK  - Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
SNU       Seoul National University
TERI      Technician Education Research Institute
GOVERN4ENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA: APPRAISAL OF A SECTOR PROGRAM
ON HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET
*            1.  INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
2.  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND HIGHER TECHNICAL MANPOWER . . . . .    3
Industrial Strategy  .                      . . . . . . . . . .    3
Implications for Higher Technical Manpower . . . . . . . . .    4
3.  ISSUES IN HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Major Issues 7. . ...7
Lack of Flexibility   . .      .. . . . . . .  .                  7
Quality Problems   g          ..9
Teaching Programs.                            . . . 9
The Supply of Teachers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Qualification of Teaching Staff  . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Equipment               ...12
Investment Gap in Private Education  . . . . . . . . . . .   12
4.  SECTOR PROGRAM ON HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION   ... .         .  .  .    .   14
Strategy .....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ... .......   .   14
Flexibility  ....  .       .  .    .. . ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
Quality Improvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Program Content  ....... ......... .                               15
Adjusting Manpower Supply and Demand . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Quality Improvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Accreditation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Curriculum Development .. . ........... .                        17
Increasing the Supply of Staff   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Improvement of Staff Qualifications  . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Equipment and Teaching Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
5. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  ...  .  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
The Sector Approach. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Organization and Staffing           .. .27
Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Staffing                 ...29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page NTo.
Procedures   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
Identification .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .   31
Preparation    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
Appraisal  . . . . . . . . . . .      . .            .. . .   31
Approval .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . .  .  .. .   31
Supervision .              .                  . . . . .  37
Project Monitoring and Evaluation        . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Criteria for Allocation of Loan Funds  . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Eligibility  .                        .   .   .   . .  . .     33
General Guidelines for the Allocation of Loan Funds  . . .   33
Approval of Subprojects .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   34
Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   .       3.5
6.  COSTS AND FINANCING  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......... .    3,
In-vestment Program ....  .  .  .  .  .  .. ....           .     3
Recurrent Cost Implications. .            .       . . . . . .    3
Financing and Bank Contribution  .  ...... ..   . . .  .    .   .    319
Financing of Private Subprojects       ..       . . .            4.
Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4.
Disbursements...                                                 4
Auditing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED.. .....                                          4
LIST OF TABLES IN TEXT
Table No.
3.1 Student Admission Quotas
3.2  Supply and Demand Projections for Engineers, Technicians and Managers
(1977-1991)
4.1 Requirements for New Teaching StaEf (1L979-86)
4.2  Sources for Additional Teaching Staff Required (1975-1986)
4.3  Planned Expansion of Postgraduate Programs, Enrollments and Outpul:s
(1979 Actual, 1986 Planned)
4.4  Average Salaries of Teachers in Higher Education
4.5 Enlarged Scholarship Scheme
4.6  Proportion of Total Teaching Staff with Advanced Degrees
4.7 Training Programs for Present Teaching Staff
6.1  Investment Program for Higher Tecanical Education, by Component
(1979-83)
6.2 Investment Program by Public and Private Sector
6.3  Estimated Addiitional Private and MOE Recurrent Expenditures, 1979-83
(constant 1979 prices)
6.4 Overall Financing Plan (1978-83)
6.5  Tentative Bank Financing by Componlent and Category



6.6 Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Component and Year
6.7 Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Semester
DIAGRAMS
5.1 Organization and Responsibilities for Management
5.2 Procedures for Generating and Processing Subloan Applications
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1 (a) Eligibility Criteria
(b) General Guidelines for Allocation of Loan Funds
(c) Contents of Loan Applications for Subprojects
(d) Criteria for Evaluation and Approval of Subprojects
2      Materials in Project File






KOREA
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION
BASIC DATA (1978)
Higher Education
Enrollments (grades 13-19 equivalent)                          407,000
% female                                                          24
Gross enrollment ratio/a                                             18%
Female enrollment ratio                                               9%
Higher Technical Education
Enrollments in technical fields at tertiary level              132,000
As a percentage of total enrollments at tertiary level            32%
Total    Of which technical
Distribution of enrollments in higher education
Postgraduate courses (grades 17-19)                19,000      5,500 (29%)
Universities and colleges (grades 13-16)          278,000    73,000 (26%)/b
Junior colleges (grades 13-14)                    110,000    53,500 (48%)
Engineering students by field of study:
University Level /c    Technician Level
Civil engineering group           8,170 (22% of total)   8,640 (16% of total)
Electrical engineering group    9,310 (25%)               16,720 (31%)
Mechanical engineering group   11,700 (31%)               16,160 (30%)
Chemical engineering group        4,640 (13%)              4,960 (10%)
Others                            3,330 ( 9%)              6,880 (13%)
Percentage of enrollment in:
-evening classes                               16                22
-Seoul                                         48                13
-private schools                               72                86
Student/Teacher Ratios:
Engineering & technician education            41:1              29:1
Management education                          69:1               -
Equity indicator (Gini coefficient)/d         - 0.38
Applicant/admissions ratio                    - 4:1
Scl,olarship coverage in higher education   -  6% of enrollment
Fee exemption coverage in higher education - 16% of enrollment



- ii -
Financial Data
Public expenditure on education as
percentage of GNP                          2.8%
Public expenditure devoted to education   17.5%
Public education expenditure on higher
education                                  6.6%
Public Private
(%)
Total Expenditure (public and private)
for higher education:                     US$411 million    27         73
Of which:  universitiies                US$324 million    29         71
Of which:  junior colleges              US$ 87 million    19         81
Estimated total private expenditure for
higher education                         US$300 million
Percentage of expenditure for development - For universities    20%
- For junior colleges 11%
Unit Recurrent Costs
Average for higher education          US$1,050
Average for engineering education   US$1,000 (estimate)
Average for technician education    US$  800 (estimate)
Note:  Enrollments include overage and underage students.
/a  Including overage students.
lb Including 18,000 in management courses.
/c Excluding freshmen which is a common Year I.
/d The Gini coefficient measures the degree of inequality in the distributicn
of two variables, e.g. the total number of people in a particular age
group and the number enrolled,, with 0.0 representing absolute equality
and 1.0, absolute inequality.
Sources: MOE Statistics; KEDI, "Long-Term Educational Development Prospect,
1978-91"; and mission estimates.



1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Korean economy has achieved remarkable success, particularly in
the growth of export-oriented manufactures./I Manufacturing (including mining)
output has grown at an average annual rate of over 20% in real terms since
1960 and its share of GNP rose from 15% in 1960 to 30% in 1978. The export of
manufactures accounts for some 90% of total commodity exports. Industrial
expansion, stimulated by international demand, has been based on the growth of
light industry, largely textiles, footwear, and simple, assembled electronic
products; since 1960, light industry has grown at an average annual rate of 17%
in real terms.
1.02      Korea's successful industrialization has been based largely on the
exploitation of well-established, imported technologies and a ready supply of
productive, inexpensive labor. The technologies used were often developed 25
years ago or earlier, and were relatively simple, requiring few sophisticated
skills. Industry was thus able to expand without extensive research and
development costs or a great need for high level technical manpower. Expansion
depended instead on the availability of a generally well-trained labor force,
whose workers commanded relatively low wages. By 1970, virtually 100% of the
employed labor force was literate and nearly 90% of production workers had
completed secondary and/or primary education. This broad base of education has
allowed the work force to fulfill the skill demands of Korea's labor-intensive
production methods.
1.03      Korea's education system has contributed to industrialization by
emphasizing widespread provision of basic education (primary and general
secondary) and vocational training at the secondary level. Universal enroll-
ment of the primary school age group was achieved by 1970 and about 60% of the
secondary school age group was enrolled by 1975. Priority was also attached
over the last decade to expanding training capacity for industrial workers,
i.e., at technical high schools and vocational training institutes. Between
1970 and 1978, secondary enrollments in vocational fields more than doubled (to
615,000) and accounted for 42% of total secondary enrollments. In addition,
some 5,000 grade 9 school leavers (this figure is expected to double by 1981)
attend one- to two-year skill training courses at vocational training
institutes. As a result of these programs, the needed training capacity for
skilled workers has largely been met.
1.04      The Bank Group has supported the industrialization process in the
education sector by concentrating lending on training for skilled and
semiskilled workers. Its four loans/credits amounted to US$103.3 million,
roughly 50% of which was allocated for vocational (industrial) training at the
secondary level, 30% for teacher training and university assistance, and 20%
for other secondary and postsecondary education.
/1 In 1976 Korea ranked third highest among "middle income countries" in
manufactured exports (World Development Report, 1979, Table 12).



Over 60% of the 25,000 student places created or improved under these projects
fall under the category of vocational/technical training at the secondary
level (see Project File).
1.05      Further industrial growth requires strengthened higher education
in the technical fields. A subsector survey /1 of higher technicaL education
in July 1977 concluded that future government and Bank assistance for
education should continue to support the manufacturing sector, but with a
major shift, consistent with the increasing complexity of Korean i-ndustry,
toward higher technical skills in engineering, management and technician
education.  To follow through on this recommendation, four separate study
teams (composed of Korean specialists assisted by part-time foreign expertsl
were formed iin August 1978 to make comprehensive analyses and proposals in the
fields of manpower supply/demand, engineering education, management education
and technician training.  The interim reports of the four study teams proviclel
a basis for Bank preappraisal in November 1978. The final reports of the
study teams were incorporated into a loan request /2 with an introductory
summary by the MOE. These reports formed the basis for the Bank's appraisal,
carried out by a mission that visited Korea in April 1979./3
1.06      The proposed sector loan would include IBRD financing of US$100
million to assist in raising the quality of higher technical manpower. Banli;
financing is sought chiefly for developing staff, teaching programs and
laboratory facilities in the following fields:
Engineering Education (gr. 13-19)        US$60 million
Management Education (gr. 13-19)         US$ 4 million
Technician Training (gr. 13-14)          US$36 million
The proposed sector loan is recommended for Bank financing because it
supports the Government's industrial development strategy, it addresses the
major issues in higher technical education and it is well organized and
financed to achieve its goals. The following sections of the report addres,,
each of these topics in turn.
/1  "Korea:  Education Subsector Memorandum on Higher Technical Training,"
June 26, 1978, Report 1927-KO.
/2  "Final Report on the Proposed Fifth IBRD Education Project," Ministry of
Education, Republic of Korea, February 1979.,
/3  Consisting of Messrs. S.Z. Sung (technical educator, mission leader);
P. Eklund (economist), R.M. Macdonald (management training specialist,
consultant), J.C. Calhoun (engineering educator, consultant).



-3-
2. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND HIGHER TECHNICAL MANPOWER
Industrial Strategy
2.01      Korea's economic development strategy seeks to shift its industrial
structure away from light, labor-intensive manufactures towards more skill-
intensive manufactures, i.e., those with a higher technological content. This
strategy is necessary to maintain a comparative advantage in international
trade in view of:
(a) the expected increase in competition from developing countries
with lower wage levels than those now prevailing in Korea; and
(b) protectionist restrictions in industrialized countries, which
will work against increasing imports of high volume and low
value-added goods.
This strategy is reflected in the Government's economic growth targets: GNP
is expected to rise on average by 10% per year through 1991, exports would
grow at around 15% per year, and manufacturing would increase its overall
share in GNP from 30% to 45%. Output in the newer, heavy and chemical
industries would dominate the growth and increase by 15% per year. The share
of these newer industries in manufacturing output would rise from 50% at
present to 65% by 1991, while that of light industry would decline from 50%
to 35% over the same period. Textiles, clothing and footwear, industries
which recently accounted for nearly 50% of Korea's total exports, would
represent a 20% share by the late 1980s, while general machinery exports
should increase from 15% to 50% of the total.
2.02      If this industrial strategy is to be successful, Korea must
increasingly replace wholly imported technologies with locally generated and
adapted technologies. To do this it must reinforce its capabilities in pro-
duct and process engineering. Policies are required that encourage a selec-
tive importation of foreign advanced technologies, the diffusion of such
know-how between firms and the acquisition of advanced technology par-
ticularly at the firm level. This in turn requires raised expenditures on
research and development (R&D). Total R&D expenditure in 1977 was 0.7% of
GNP, of which the industry share was 30%. However, by 1991, the Government
expects to raise expenditure on R&D as a share of GNP to 2.5%, with the
industry share at 60%. The Government has already introduced policies to
strengthen the local capacity for research in order to shift the responsibi-
lity for technology transfer and development from the Government to industry.
Fiscal incentives are being provided to develop the engineering capability in
industry. Moreover, the Government has liberalized procedures and tax
incentives for importing advanced technologies. At present, most firms lack
the financial and technical capabilities to provide the design, testing and
planning expertise needed to screen and select appropriate and economical
technologies. Assistance in these activities needs to be given by specialized
research institutes, engineering universities and junior technical colleges.



- 4 -
Implications for Higher Technical Manpower
2.03      The planned structural transformation of industry also necessitate:
changes in the composition of the work force to match manpower supply with
demand. Effective operations using more sophisticated production technologie:s
require (a) higher quality of present skills, (b) a broader range of skills
and (c) greater proportion of highly skilled technical manpower in the labor
force.
2.04      At present the supply of high quality professional, technical
manpower is limited. Industry reports a long lead time for higher technical
manpower entering employment to become productive (e.g., a typical orientaticon
period for Korean engineers beginning employment is two to three years
compared with about six mLonths for new engineers in industrialized countries:.
This initiation period would likely be prolonged by the introduction of more
complex technologies.  Some on-the-job training will always be appropriate,
but the present amount is needlessly long and inefficient. In the future as
Korea moves towards greater technological content in its manufactures,
on-the-job training cannot be expected to compensate for inappropriate
training in higher education institutions. In addition, the prevalent
downward substitution of engineers in employment (i.e., use of engineers to
perform technician level tasks), is symptomatic of low quality technical
training as is the dependence of firms on costly service contracts with
foreign suppliers of advanced technologies. Improvements in the quality of
existing skills will thus be needed to meet the requirements of the
skill-intensive industries.
2.05      A broadened range of technical and managerial skills will also be
needed to effect the planned changes in industrial orientation.  The develop-
ment (or adaptation) and application of new technologies will require new
engineering skills in research, design and production. Important skill gaps
include:  the ability to screen and select new technologies that will be
cost-effective once adapted to local labor and materials conditions; the
ability to develop modern integrated production systems that go beyond simpla
batch processing and exploit opportunities for joint production and creating
economies of scale; and the ability to establish testing and quality control
schemes based on modern iinstrumentation. New management skills in finance,
marketing and organizational methods are also required to raise industrial
productivity. Success with the changing pattern of firm ownership:, from
family to corporate operations in particular, requires new knowledge for
applying modern quantitative methods of firm management.
2.06      Finally, to effect the planned structural changes in industry,
higher technical manpower will need to constitute a larger share oiw industri)]
employment. The proportiLon of engineers and technicians within industry is
expected to rise from the present 2.9% to about 5% in 1991. Within heavy
engineering and chemical industries, the proportion may be as high as 25-302
of total employment, compared to about 5% in modern light industry. In



- 5 -
absolute terms, government projections of net demand for university-trained
engineers from 1977-91 show an additional requirement of about 165,000 (over
the 1977 supply of 40,000); additional demand for engineering technicians
from junior technical colleges is estimated at 135,000 (with a present
supply of 12,000). The projection of net demand for university-trained
managers amounts to 240,000 for 1977-91. Because these figures imply rapid
growth starting at relatively low absolute levels, it will be essential to
monitor continuously changes in demand by type of higher technical manpower
in order to allow for timely adjustments in supply.



- 6 -
3. ISSUES IN HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION /1
Overview /2
3.01      Despite the general strengths of Korean higher education (in
coverage and efficiency, substantial changes are needed in the tech-
nical subsector to meet industrial requirements in the 1980s.
(a)  Flexibility - The supply of technical skills must become more
responsive to demands. At present rigid enrollment controls
prevent the present supply of higher technical manpower from
responding adequately to changes in demand. This accentuates or
prolongs cycles of shortages and oversupply. Structural changes
need to be introduced in the supply of technical skills so as to
satisfy the rapidly changing requirements for technological growth
in the 1980s.
(b)  Quality - The quality of higher technical training relates poorly
to present industrial needs and will become increasingly
inadequate in the future. Recent enrollment growth has not been
accompanied by commensurate increases in teaching staff and
facilities. Acute teacher and equipment shortages have resulted.
These shortages, together with insufficient adaptation of teaching
content to industrial requirements, contribute to theoretical
teaching which does not produce the practical, problem-solving
abilities required by industry. Concerted efforts are needed to
increase teacher supply, equip laboratories and develop more
relevant teaching programs.
(c)  Finance - A major financing gap exists in higher technicaL
education. The subsector has been underfinanced over the past
decade.  Major new investments are required to support the planned
technological transformation in the 1980s and the bulk of these
investments fall on private institutions unable to afford them.
Increased public expenditure in private education would help
narrow, but not eliminate, the gap. In view of the expected
continued shortage of investment funds, available resources should
be concentrated in a limited number of high quality institutions
and systematic accreditation should be introduced so as to
establish, improve and equalize standards over the long rin.
/1  The fields of study most closely related to industrial development in
Korea include engineering and management education (at both graduate and
postgraduate levels) and technician training (at diploma level)..  For the
sake of convenience, these three types of education are called "'higher
technical education." Higher technical education is defined as the
sector in this report.
/2  For a background description of higher technical education see Projects
File and for a recent comprehensive analysis see "Korea: Education
Subsector Memorandum on Higher Technical Training," June 26, 1978, IBRD
Report No. 1927-KO.



- 7-
Major Issues
Lack of Flexibility
3.02      Higher technical education is not well organized to respond to
changes in demand for higher technical manpower. The output of graduates
cannot be adjusted quickly to eliminate shortages or oversupplies. Current
shortages and projected surpluses of technical manpower indicate this lack of
flexibility in the system. Major shortages exist for engineers and managers,
estimated to be about 10,000 and 45,000 in the 1977-81 period. Salary
differentials reflect the growing scarcity of college-trained graduates. In
1971 the wage ratio between degree holders and persons with primary education
was 3:1; in 1978 it had increased to 4:1 and was 8:1 for engineering
graduates.
3.03      The Government recently undertook major expansion of the intake
quotas in technical fields to overcome these shortages. Entrance quotas were
raised in undergraduate engineering by 40% in 1978 and another 60% in 1979, by
35% in both years for technicians, and by 95% and 85% for management.
Additional increases are being planned in 1980, as shown in Table 3.1:
Table 3.1: STUDENT ADMISSION QUOTAS
Undergraduate                   Actual              Projected
Field               1977    1978    1979           1980
Engineering           13,000  17,500  28,100         29,400/a
Management             4,300   8,400  15,500         20,500
Technicians           23,700  32,000  43,100         44,800/a
/a Increases announced in September 1979.
Source: MOE.
However, recent long-term manpower projections prepared by the Government
suggest that, even without the planned 1980 increases, the system may have
been overexpanded. Oversupplies of engineers and particularly of technicians
are likely to emerge by the mid-1980s, as shown in Table 3.2.



- 8 -
Table 3.2: SUPPLY AND DEMAND PROJECTIONS FOR
ENGINEERS, TECHNICIANS AND MANAGERS
(1977-1991)
1977-81      1982-86     1987-91   1977-91
Engineers
Additional supply /a                27,200        64,700      90,800    182,700
Additional demand lb                38,700        52,000      72,300    163,000
Balance                          -11,500       +12,700    +18,500    +19,700
Technicians
Additional supply /a                33,600        83,000    106,800    223,400
Additional demand lb                 16,700       42,100      74,600    133,400
Balance                          +16,900       +40,900    +32,200    +90,000
Managers
Additional supply /c                18,000        89,000      92,000    199,000
Additional demand                   65,000        75,000    100,000    240,000
Balance                          -47,000       t14,000      -8,000    -41,000
/a  Including projected quota increases for 1980.
/b  Demand projections are based on the Government's long-term economic plans,
and were prepared by the Korea Educational Development Institute (KEDI).
The future demand for engineers produced by engineering colleges, is
assumed to rise from 80% in 1975 to 86% by 1991; for technicians produced
by junior technical colleges, an increase is assumed from 10% in 1975 to
70% by 1991; for management projections refer only to output of college
and university level programs. Demand projections do not allow for
teacher requirements.
/c Supply derived holding 1981 planned quota constant.
Source: KEDI and mission projection for management education.



-9-
3.04      Shortages and oversupplies are bound to occur because of the
inflexibility of the present system of enrollment control and the lack of a
permanent capacity for manpower projections. The size and composition of
higher technical education is controlled by a quota system through which the
number of entering students is determined by the MOE centrally for each
institution and department. This quota system was intended to regulate supply
with demand and ensure minimum standards among entering students. However,
a systematic manpower analysis has not been done and little permanent capacity
exists for analyzing and forecasting demand for higher technical manpower.
Manpower projections have been carried out on an ad hoc basis by the EPB,
MOST, KEDI and the Korea Development Institute (KDI). The most recent
projection was carried out by KEDI. A permanent analytical capability is
needed with appropriate methodologies and information base for planning the
size and composition of higher technical education.
3.05      Manpower planning in Korea is made difficult by the unusually long
lead time between entrance to university/college and entry to the labor force.
Male students are required to fulfill three years of military training
beginning at age 20. Seven years may therefore elapse between entry to
tertiary education and entry to the labor market. Students have to decide
their area of specialization upon entrance to the institution, long before
labor market demands are known. Institutions can respond only slowly to
changing market demands since it takes up to seven years before altered
curricula or intake quotas begin to have an impact on the labor market. Korea
needs to develop a more flexible system for supplying higher technical
manpower to satisfy the rapidly changing needs of technological growth in the
1980s.
Quality Problems
3.06      The quality of higher technical training is inadequate for the tech-
nological changes sought in industrial development. A few institutions pro-
duce satisfactory engineers and technicians, particularly in civil engineering
and architecture, but standards vary widely among institutions. At all
institutions the teaching programs lack practical content. Theory is
generally well taught but there is a lack of emphasis on its application
through experiments and problem solving. Some teaching programs are outdated
and some needed skills are not being taught. Low quality is manifest in
three areas: teaching content, teaching staff and equipment.
3.07      Teaching Programs.  Teaching programs in higher technical education
are characterized by early specialization, lack of practical content and
poorly developed graduate programs. The structure of curricula fails to
achieve a suitable balance between specialization in one field and sound basic
skills. The average undergraduate engineering program allocates only about 9%
for general engineering but 56% of course time for specialization. Early
specialization is also a characteristic of undergraduate business management
courses.



- 10 -
Students are allocated to specific departments early in their careers, inclu-
ding business management, economics, trade, commerce, industrial management
and statistics. Fragmentation of courses is combined with a lack of stan-
dardization between schools. Junior technical colleges, moreover, provide
a relatively rigid and terminal two-year course which emulates programs
provided by four-year engineering colleges. Few opportunities are provided
for further training or retraining. The early specialization stems largely
from the Government's quota system which admits students to each institution
by department. Graduates who lack adequate basic skills are not well preparedL
to adapt to different industry-specific needs. This is particularly
detrimental to industrial technicians who are often called upon to perform a
broad range of tasks.
3.08      Teaching programs also do not provide enough practical applications
of theory taught. Laboratory work and practice in engineering account for
only an average of 8% (8-14 units of the total 140 units) in a student's
undergraduate career, compared with 30% in more advanced countries. Manage-
ment education lacks a problem-solving orientation, as indicated by the
virtual absence of case studies on the solution of management problems in the
Korean context. In addition, teaching programs are often obsolete and do not
provide the types of skills now needed by industry. There is relatively
little emphasis on industrial and process engineering which is needed for more
efficient manufacturing methods and production efficiency. Management
curricula do not include industry specific courses and devote inadequate
attention to such topics as business policy, strategic planning, and
management information systems.  The failure to keep teaching programs up to
date results from the absence of a continuous dialogue with industry on
training content and from the quota system which discourages experimentation
with multidisciplinary training programs. As Korea enters a new phase of
industrialization, basic skills training will need to be strengthened and a
broader range of options taught. Coordination between training institutions
and industry must be increased to assure the relevance of teaching content.
3.09      The Supply of Teachers:  The teacher shortage is a major factor
adversely affecting the quality and type of instruction given. Staff
shortages are reflected in large class size and are particularly acute in
engineering and management. The student:staff ratio in engineering is 44:1
(80% higher than the average of 24:1 in higher education as a whole); ratios
above 50:1 commonly occur in less prestigious universities/colleges. The
teacher supply is even mores constrained in management. The overall student:
staff ratio is 69:1, but there is a wide variation. In 1979, only 7 out of 60
institutions had student:teacher ratios of 40:1 or below.  Over half the
students faced ratios exceeding 130:1. Even if there were no increases in
admissions to engineering and management beyond 1979, and teacher recruitment
proceeded at the present pace, the student:staff ratios would still rise to
55:1, and 110:L, respectively, by 1982.  The shortages of teaching staff
between 1979 and 1982 would increase from 500 to 2,500 in engineering and from
200 to 1,000 in management (as measured against student:teacher ratios of 21:]
and 40:1, respectively).



- 11 -
3.10        Korea has had difficulty in recruiting qualified teaching staff.
In 1979 faculty recruitment amounted to only 170 teachers for engineering,
less than 30% of the planned increase, and 30 for management education, less
than 10% of the target. About 400 junior college staff were recruited for
technical level training in engineering, about 60% of the 1979 target./L
Staff shortages are caused mainly by supply constraints and unattractive
incentives for entering the teaching profession. Postgraduate programs in
engineering and management produced only 1,220 and 700 graduates, respec-
tively, in 1979. These low levels of output stem from difficulty in
recruiting students into graduate school.  In 1977, for example, only 80% of
the student intake quota was met for masters degrees in engineering and only
40% for doctoral programs. Available graduates preferred industrial
employment which pays 33-100% higher salaries than teaching. A recent survey
on engineers' salaries found that the pay for teaching staff (from W 214,000
for an instructor to W 360,000 for a full professor) ranged from 75% to 50% of
comparable wages in industry. In management the average teacher receives even
less in relative terms: from 40% for assistant teachers to 50% for associate
professors. The pay differentials reflect industry's strong demand for highly
qualified manpower and its relatively elastic wage structure, while the
Government bases teachers' salaries in public institutions (closely matched by
private institutions) on the regular civil service schedule. Further, few
institutions can attract faculty through opportunities for professional
development, research or industrial consultancies. The average annual
research fund for the 26 management research institutes was only US$7,500.
3.11      Staff shortages reinforce the tendency towards theoretical
instruction. The lack of staff in technical fields means they must carry
heavy workloads. Engineering and management staff handle an average of more
than 20 classroom sessions weekly (more than double the average for other
fields), with about 40-60 students per class. Under these conditions, it is
difficult for teachers to supervise practical work or analyze case studies.
Consequently, training fails to cultivate the practical, problem-solving
abilities required by industry.
3.12      Qualifications of Teaching Staff.  Not only are teaching staff in
short supply, their qualifications need improvement. This applies particu-
larly for staff in junior technical colleges and for industrial experience of
staff in all fields. Because of the shortage .of qualified graduates
interested in teaching, too few faculty have been employed with high quality,
advanced degrees. Over half the staff of junior colleges are recruited
directly from undergraduate courses for technical secondary school teachers or
from engineering courses with no pedagogical training. The formal qualifi-
cations of staff in engineering and management are reasonably good (38% of
engineering and 28% of management staff hold doctorate degrees, mainly from
local institutions), but less than 5% of all teaching staff have had any
/1 This was achieved by relaxing qualification standards so that teaching
staff were recruited largely from among recent graduates rather than
postgraduate programs.



- 12 -
industrial or commercial work experience.  Staff lacking appropriate, qualifi-
cations and industrial experience tend to rely extensively on lecture/demon-
stration techniques since they are ill-prepared to guide students in
industrial experiments and research.
3.13      Equipment.  Laboratory equipment is indispensable for the effective
training of engineers and technologists. However, laboratory equipment and
materials are in short supply and this constrains the quality of education
particularly in engineerin,g and technician programs.  Expenditures on equip-
ment have increased lately, but they have not kept pace with increases in
enrollments. Existing laboratory equipment in engineering and junior
technical colleges meets only about one fifth of the MOE standard of US$3,000
per student./l The shortage of equipment compounds the difficulties of staff
in providing p,ractical instruction. The lack of adequate equipment and
materials reinforces the reliance on the lecture approach and reduces the
possibilities for practical work by students in technical fields. On the
average students can perform only about one-fifth of the amount of laboratory
work required, which is already insufficient. Graduates are, accordingly,
deficient in performing practical jobs which leads, in employment, to
inefficient design, and ineffective quality control.
Investment Gap in Private Education
3.14      A major financing gap exists in the subsector.  Higher education in
Korea has tended to be und,erfinanced. Historically the Ministry of Education
has allocated only about 6% of its budget for higher education, the lowest
figure among Asian countries. This low percentage is explained mainly by the
fact that about three-fourths of the higher education institutions are privatti.
and receive little, if any, funds from the Government. Student fees, regu-
lated by the Government, provided about 85% of the total revenue of private
colleges and universities. Large class sizes and low investment in equipment
yielded low recurrent costs per student averaging US$400 in private engineer-
ing colleges, only two thirds the level in public institutions. These levels
of expenditure represented underfinancing in relation to the needs,
particularly for teaching staff and facilities in technical fields.
3.15      Such underinvestment cannot continue if higher technical education
is to support the technological transformation planned in the 1980s. Major
new investments are required.  Total investments of about US$830 million
(constant 1979 prices) are needed for the period 1979-83 in equipment,
facilities and software to accommodate new enrollments and raise the standard
of higher technical education to acceptable levels. About 40% of this
/1 The standard equipment lists appear reasonable and modest. Based on
current enrollment per department, the standards correspond to about
US$3,000 in equipment per engineering student and US$3,000 per technician
student. These standard list were introduced in 1974 and revised in 1978
Despite their limitations (e.g. equipment is specified by department
without provision for enrollment variations) they are valuable planning
tools.



- 13 -
investment, or US$315 million, would be required for national programs and
investment in public institutions. The Ministry of Education would probably
be able to finance the projected costs for public institutions. However, 60%
of the financial burden for quality improvement would fall on private
institutions. Private institutions, with financial resources limited mainly
to student fees regulated by the Government, are unlikely to be able to afford
investments of US$515 million. Data are not available to permit a precise
projection of the size of the gap. However, taking into account endowments
and other resources available to private institutions and industry
contributions, they would probably be able to raise only roughly 25% of the
required investments, or from $125-150 million. A gap of nearly $400 million
would, therefore, remain. The foreseen inability of private education to meet
the financial requirements for expansion and quality improvement poses an
important issue for the Government.
3.16      Measures to increase investment at private institutions include
raising student fees and introducing student loans, increased public subsidy
and the use of tax exemptions on industrial donations. In view of the
Government's industrialization plans there appears to be a strong case
for increased public subsidy of private institutions. This could take the
form of grants for staff upgrading and loans on favorable terms for laboratory
equipment and buildings together with the requirement of matching funds to
stimulate direct assistance by industry. Increased public expenditure on
private higher technical education would help narrow, but would not eliminate
completely, the investment gap. A segment of private institutions would
remain of low quality into the mid 1980s. In view of this expected shortage
of resources, the Government strategies should: (a) concentrate available
resources in a limited number of institutions in order to produce a minimum
number of well-qualified graduates; (b) introduce a comprehensive system
of accreditation so as over the long run to establish, gradually improve and
equalize standards throughout the country; (c) increase public financial
assistance to private institutions; (d) introduce incentives, such as tax
exemptions, to encourage contributions by industry, and (e) permit private
institutions to raise the level of student fees.



- 14 --
4. SECTOR PROGRAM ON HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Strategy
4.01      The proposed sector program, including assistance for engineering 
management and technician education,/l directly addresses the major issues .n
higher technical education. It would help create a more flexible system cE
supplying technical skills, help remove the principal constraints on quality
improvement and help reduce the projected investment gap. The costs of tha
proposed loan include expenditures on establishment of new instit:utions,
policy studies, curriculum development, teacher recruitment and training,
buildings, equipment and materials.
4.02      Flexibility.  A central aim of the sector program is to shorten the
periods of manpower shortages and surpluses. It would help introduce more
flexibility into the planning and the management of higher technical educa-
tion: in the future this system would respond more readily and quickly to
changes, quantitative and qualitative, in labor market demand. This objec-ive
would be accomplished by:
(a)  establishing a permanent capacity for manpower analysis and
continuous monitoring so that it would be possible to adjust supply
more readily to foreseen changes in labor market demanc, by broad
categories;
(b)  replacement of the centrally controlled quota system with a systli-m
for admissions and management of universities and colleges which
enhances the transfer of students between departments and school;
while maintaining minimum standards among entering students;
(c)  the deferment of early specialization in favor of broad general
training with the possibility of transfer between fields in line
with supply/demand changes; and
(d)  the introduction of in-service and retraining programs to ease tle
transition of surplus manpower to fields in demand.
4.03      Quality Improvement.  The main emphasis of the sector program
would be to bring the quality of higher technical training up to the standards
needed for industrial development in the 1980s,. Such quality improvement
would be accomplished by:
(a) establishing accreditation agencies to set and enforce appropriate
training stan(lards;
/1 For a separate account of the programs by type of education, see "Final
Report on the Proposed Fifth IBRD Project,'  (2p.cit.).



- 15 -
(b) adapting the content of existing teaching programs to industrial
requirements, and introducing new programs to strengthen analytical
and practical skills;
(c) increasing the supply, and improving the qualifications of teaching
staff; and
(d) providing more laboratory equipment for teaching purposes.
4.04      Investment in Private Education.  A third objective of the sector
program is to lessen the investment gap in private higher technical education
by:
(a) channelling sector loan funds to private institutions for staff
development and equipment;
(b) channeling additional public funds into private institutions; and
(c) studying the feasibility of increasing revenue to private
institutions through raised student fees.
These financial measures are discussed in Chapter 6.
Program Content
Adjusting Manpower Supply and Demand
4.05      A manpower monitoring system would be established to help regulate
the supply of higher technical manpower in accordance with demand. The
monitoring system would carry out continuous analysis of manpower demand in
industry with a view to recommending necessary adjustments in the supply of
trained manpower, both by level and type of manpower. The monitoring system
would include the annual collection and assessment of data on manpower
demand and supply, employment and technological changes in industry as they
relate to manpower requirements. The system would develop three main
sources of information, as follows:
(a) tracer studies of graduates (employment rates, salaries,
vertical mobility and job performance) in collaboration
with the MOE;
(b) forecasts on industry specific technology needs in order to deter-
mine emerging skill requirements, in cooperation with MOST; and
(c) general manpower projections based on five-year development plans,
occupational coefficients of major economic sectors; and data on
productivity and relative wage movements.



- 16 -
The initiaL scope of operations would be limited to higher technical fiel':s,
but later would be expanded to encompass all skill categories.  On the basiq
of information derived from this monitoring system, recommendations would ba
made to the MOE to adjust enrollments.
4.06      Initially, the manpower monitoring system would be built up under
the existing, but dormant, Committee for Manpower Development and Promotien in
the EPB.  'In a second phase, to be completed by the end of 1981, a permanen:
manpower institution would be established either under the EPB or MOE.  The
proposed program would include financing for expert services to assist in
establishing the manpower monitoring system. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the government would evaluate before June 30, 1980 its existing
Committee for Manpower Development and Promotion and ensure that it performs
the functions of a manpower monitoring system satisfactory to the Bank before
December 31, 1981.
4.07      The achievement of a more flexible manpower supply sysltem for the
1980s also requires replacement of the rigid and centralized quota system
which controls admission of students by institution, department and field of
study.  The new system should be decentralized (i.e. available student plazes
would be determined by each institution in accordance with overall guide-
lines), be based on qualitative criteria and permit transfer of students
between departments and across fields in response to labor shortages or
surpluses. During negotiations, it was agreed that before Decemnber 31,
1980, the government would submit to the Bank for its review and comments,
proposals for a flexible system for allocation of students in higher technical
education which would facilitate adjustment of supply of higher technical
manpower in accordance with changes in labor market demands and implement, in
consultation with the Bank, such proposals before December 31, 1981.
4.08      Until a more flexible system of manpower supply is achieved, the
Government has adopted a moderate policy on further expansion of enroll-
ments./1 In view of the sharp increases introduced over the past two year;:,
any major expansion of intake in technical fields is likely to worsen the
employment prospects of graduates and the quality of education. To avert
supply imbalances in the 1980s and further strains on teaching equality, thte
Government has agreed to proceed cautiously in raising admission quotas fo:
engineers and technicians until such time as manpower information and imprcved
quality suggest a need for further expansion. During negotiations, the
Government and Bank agreed that during the the Bank's regular review missicn3
in the first quarter of each year until 1984, the annual levels of admissicn
for engineer/technicians would be discussed. The discussions would consider
the most recent information available such as revised manpower prDjections for
engineers and technicians, average wages by field of specialization for the
three most recent years, tracer studies, i.e. the employability and wages of
/1 For example, the quota increases in engineering originally intended for
1980 have been considerably reduced from 15,000 to 1,300 students.



- 17 -
new graduates of sampled institutions, etc. The objective of this
discussion would be to establish general guidelines for the overall annual
enrollment increases by major field of study.
Quality Improvement
4.09      Accreditation.  Under the proposed sector program, the Government
would establish an accreditation system for assessing the quality and
relevance of education and establishing appropriate training standards. Two
elements of this system, namely (a) The Korean Management Education Board, and
(b) The Technician Education Research Institute have already been established.
The government intends to submit plans for the establishment of a third
agency, for engineering education, to the Bank before June 30, 1980 and to
establish it before January 1, 1981. These agencies would be generally
responsible for assessing the quality of existing training institutions in
their respective fields, setting minimum professional standards for training
in terms of staff, curriculum and facilities, proposing remedial measures to
correct quality deficiencies and, ultimately, for extending accreditation to
institutions through the MOE. The evaluation and accreditation of
institutions would be carried out through the use of external examiners.  In
addition, the institutions would carry out ad hoc studies on particular issues
(e.g., cost analysis) and help develop more relevant training programs.  Their
scope of responsibility would cover private as well as public institutions.
4.10      Each agency would comprise about 5-10 professional staff, assisted
by ad hoc experts and consultants. The agencies would serve as secretariats
for existing MOE Evaluation Committees and would include representatives of
industry, public and private institutions and Government on their boards. The
project costs associated with accreditation include the establishment of the
agencies and their initial operating costs, specialist services and the costs
of about ten studies. During negotiations, the Government agreed to establish
a third agency (for engineering education) by January 1, 1981 and thereafter
maintain the three accreditation agencies in the fields of engineering,
technician training and management with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
4.11      Curriculum Development.  A major objective of the program
is to strengthen the analytical and practical skills of higher technical
manpower through improved teaching programs. The content of existing programs
would be changed and new curricula would be introduced. These new teaching
programs would be prepared by selected colleges/universities with assistance
from the respective accreditation agencies. Curricula for engineering courses
would be improved by:
(a) increasing the credit requirements for basic science and engineering
subjects from about 24% to about 40% of available time;
(b) increasing the requirements for practical (laboratory) work from
about 10 credits on the average to about 25 credits;
(c) adding new engineering programs, particularly in industrial
engineering, operations research and instrumentation; and



- 18--
(d)  allowing for the development of multidisciplinary courses.  At the
postgraduate level, a multidisciplinary approach to problem solv:ing
would be fostered by the creation of four interdisciplinary certers
which would utilize the resources of several departments in appli.ed
research programs.
4.12      Management education would be modernized using teaching materiaLs
and techniques relevant to Korea. Course contents, which vary widely amoag
institutions, would be standardized with assistance from the management
accreditation agency. Case studies would be developed based on Korean
examples and new specializations would be developed (for instance in
accounting and financial analysis) based on the use of modern quantitativL
techniques.  The Graduate School of Seoul National University would spons)r
most of this curriculum development through support of case-writing and
case-teaching seminars for 60 teaching staff annually between 1980-84. The
technician-training curriculum would also' be made more flexible through
adoption of a modular approach allowing for two types of training. The f:'rst
type would be designed to prepare technicians for employment in small- and
medium-sized industries and would provide a broad range of basic skills; the
second type of training would prepare students for employment in large
industries and would cover fewer skill areas but in greater depth. The
proposed program would provide specialist services as needed to assist thc
agencies involved in curriculum development for the whole subsector.
4.13      Increasing the Supply of Staff.  The main requirement for improve-
ments in the quality of higher technical education is to eliminate shortales
and increase the supply of well-qualified staff. Under the loan, the sup:lly
of teaching staff would be trebled from about 4,000 to 12,000 staff so as to
achieve reasonable student:staff ratios at the undergraduate level of 21:1,
40:1 and 18:1 for engineering,/l management and technician courses,
respectively, by 1986. This increased supply of teachers would enable
students to receive more individual guidanace and practical instruction in
laboratories.
/1 The ultimate aim is to achieve a student:staff ratio of 15:1, but the
higher ratios have been adopted in the interim due to staff shortages
that cannot be completely overcome by the end of the plan period in
1986.



- 19 -
Table 4.1: REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW TEACHING STAFF (1979-86)
Type of          Existing  Additional Staff Required (1979-86)  Target Student
training           staff     Incremental  Replacement  Total        Faculty Ratio
(1978)                                               (1986)
Engineering
Undergraduate   1,330          3,900         200       4,100          21:1
Graduate           100           260            -        260          15:1
Subtotal       1,430        4,160          200       4,360
Management
Undergraduate      280         1,750           50      1,800          40:1
Graduate            20           250            -        250          20:1
Subtotal         300        2,000           50       2,050
Technicians        2,250         2,300          300      2,600          18:1
Total          3,980         8.460         550       9,010
Source: MOE.
4.14      The expansion of teaching staff would be achieved by increasing
output from postgraduate engineering and management programs, enlarging
overseas fellowship schemes and instituting special postgraduate programs to
produce teachers. In addition, Korean engineers working abroad would be
recruited as teaching staff for postgraduate engineering training, and
part-time staff would be recruited from industry. Incentives would be adopted
to attract students into graduate schools and staff into teaching. The
subsector program would finance the expansion of graduate programs (facilities
and equipment), overseas fellowships, expert services and costs of recruitment
of staff from overseas. Table 4.2 indicates the estimated sources for the
additional staff needed. Similar scholarship schemes have been successful in
the past and experience with recruitment of staff from overseas has been
favorable. The feasibility of significant numbers of part-time staff from
industry, however, has not yet been tested. Altogether these programs would
meet about 90% of the total requirement of 9,000 by 1986. The Government has
submitted supplementary staff development plans for reducing the expected
deficits.



- 20 -
Table 4.2:  SOURCES FOR ADDITIONAL TEACHING STAFF REQUIRED, 1975-1986
Engineering            Management
Under-                 Under-    Techni-
Graduate  graduate   Graduate  graduate    cian         Total
(1)       (2)          (3)       (4)        (5)
Staff required (1986)            260      4,100         250       1,800      2,600    9,010
Sources of additional
staff
(i)  Local graduate school'
(a) regular                 -     1,400          120      1,500      1,800    4,820
(b) special                 -     2,030            -           -          -    :',030
(ii)  Overseas fellowships        -        150          30           -        150       330
(iii)  Overseas recruitment    150            -           -                      -       150
(iv)  Industry (part time)    100/a         40/a        -           -
) 650       790
and other                 -          -           -           -      )
Total                250      3,620         150       1,500      2,600    8,120
Surplus or (deficit)      (10)      (480)       (100)       (300)         0      (890)
/a Full time equivalent.
Source: MOE estimates.



- 21 -
4.15      The increased supply of teaching staff would be produced largely
through expansion of domestic graduate school programs. Existing programs
would be expanded and special teacher-training programs would be introduced
as shown in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: PLANNED EXPANSION OF POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMS
ENROLLMENTS AND OUTPUTS
(1979 Actual, 1986 Planned)
Enrollments                   Outputs               Estimated
Accumulated    number
Type of postgraduate       Actual  Planned   Estimated  Planned       total       becoming
training               1979     1986        1979       1986     1979-86      teachers /b
Engineering
Masters
Regular program        1,890    4,400         800     2,000      11,200        1,130  (10%)
Special program /a       300         0          0       360       2,070        1,470  (70%) /c
Doctoral
Regular program          240       660         70        200      1,080          270  (25%)
Special program /a         0      400           0        160        560          560 (100%)
Management
Masters                  2,200    5,800       1,000     2,400      12,800        1,200  (10%)
Doctoral                   200       260         60         80        560          300  (50%)
Technicians
Masters                     60       300          -        150        720          720 (100%)
/a  A peak enrollment of 1,400 would be reached in 1983 with 800 in masters
programs and 600 in doctoral programs.
/b  Figures in bracket represents the percentage of the accumulated output
entering teaching.
/c  Excluding the 600 masters degree holders who are expected to proceed to
doctoral programs.
Source: MOE.



- 22 -
4.16       The feasibility of expanding domestic graduate school programs
depends on the recruitment of additional graduate school professors an(
students to enter graduate schools and eventually teaching. Korea has hid
difficulty in both areas of recruitment (para. 3.10). The Government 1 a3
prepared a program to attract more students into graduate schools and Into
teaching. The program includes the following:
(a) The average salaries for teachers in higher education have beei
substantially increased in 1979 as shown in the following table
and the gap between faculty and industry salaries has narrowed:
Table 4.4: AVERAGE SALARIES OF TEACHERS
IN HIGHER EDUCATION
1978           1979      Increase
(Won) ------          ()
Professor                       438,000        639,000          46
Associate prof essor            380,500        513,000          35
Assistant professor             290,000        403,000          39
Instructor                      249,500        338,000          35
Part-time instructor            140,400        190,000          35
(b)  The legislation on military services has been revised and app^cved
by the National Assembly. Three years of military services wLll
be reduced to one for students pursuing graduate studies in
engineering and natural sciences.
(c)  A law on Research Promotion and the establishment of a resear( h
promotion fund was recently passed at the National Assembly.
Professors have access now to research funds and those whose
applications for such funds are approved have income in addit>on
to their salaries.
(d) The enlarged scholarship schemes recently approved at the grac ulte
level for engineering, management and technicians education (i.t a
cost of about Won 1 billion per annum) are shown in Table 4.5



- 23 -
Table 4 5:  ENLARGED SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME
No. of scholarships per year               Amount of
Engineering    Management    Technicians    scholarship
(W p.a.)
Master level             400             100             150            500,000
PhD level                 50              50              80            700,000
Total                  450            150              230
Moreover, the Government agreed during negotiations to take all necessary
steps to introduce incentives for recruitment and retention of teachers at
graduate and undergraduate levels to achieve not later than December 31,
1986 the following targets of student/teacher ratios:
(students per staff)
Graduate level       Undergraduate level
Engineering                                15                      21
Technicians training                        -                      18
Management                                 2U                      4U
4.17      Additional measures are planned to supply teaching staff,
including overseas fellowship programs which would train about 330 staff at
PhD level within the next five years./l In the interim, recruitment of
Koreans employed abroad and adjunct professors from industry would supply
postgraduate teaching staff in engineering.  Special incentives, including
travel and housing benefits, would be introduced to attract about 150
qualified Koreans working abroad to assist, in particular, with the special
postgraduate faculty training programs. Another 300 engineers would be
recruited each year from industry for teaching on a part-time contract basis
(for a minimum of three years). A special law was passed in 1979 to enable
regular appointment of visiting professors from industry and commerce who
are inadequately qualified but have up-to-date industrial experience, to
teach at universities and junior technical colleges.
/1 Fellowship recipients sponsored by the government are required on
completion of their studies to work in appropriate teaching positions for
a period of time equal to twice the length of their studies.



- 24 -
4.18      Improvement of Staff Qualifications.  The qualifications of exi.tLng
staff woulcl be improved under the sector program and a larger proportion
of staff would hold advanced degrees by 1986, as shown in Table 4.4.
Table 4.6: PROPORTION OF TOTAL TEACHING STAFF WITH ADVANCED DEGREES
1977           1986
Field of Study       (% of total teaching staff)
Engineering (PhD)             38             43
Management (PhD)              28             50
Technician (Masters)          43             70
4.19      Upgrading of staff would be accomplished by strengthening and
expanding local graduate programs; providing overseas fellowships to present
staff; creating faculty exchange programs with industry; and providing work-
shops and seminars to familiarize teachers with local industriallcommercia:
practice. The training programs would be organized by the Ministry of
Education to assist in staff development as shown in Table 4.7:
Table 4.7: TRAINING PROGRAMS FOR PRESENT TEACHING STAE'F
Engineering   Management   Technician
Doctoral programs (local)                400            40
Nondegree fellowships                  1,020           100             250
Workshops/seminars                       500           700           2,400
4.20      In engineering, selected universities would receive funds for ad(li-
tional equipment, operating costs and research support according to the
number of doctoral candidates they accept under this program. Nondegree
courses would be provided mainly through foreign fellowships. About 1,020
engineering doctorate holders would receive one year overseas research
fellowships; about 100 management education staff would undertake foreign
research or study assignments lasting threes months to a year; about 250
technician training staff would receive professional training abroad conceii-
trated on increasing their practical experience.
4.21      Technical personnel can quickly become obsolete unless their
education is continually updated, particularly if Korea is to compete in a
world market where some products are based on rapidly growing sciesntific tech-
nology. Continuing education for practical engineering at the site of



- 25 -
industry and university is important and would be supported under the program.
Workshops and seminars would also therefore be a feature of the staff upgrad-
ing program. In engineering 500 staff would attend seminars on professional
subjects in management education, a two-month Management Professors' Program
would provide annually local training in modern pedagogy for 50 professors; in
addition 60 management staff would attend workshops on case-writing and
workshops on the introduction of new teaching materials. About 2,400
technican staff would attend workshops at Chungnam to receive training in
industrial trends and pedagogy. Joint programs with industry, organized
annually for 250 engineering staff, would include a short period of
employment, executing of industry-related projects and special studies of
industrial firms.
4.22      Equipment and Teaching Materials.  One of the major impediments to
practical education is the acute shortage of laboratory equipment and
teaching materials, averaging only about 20% of the MOE standards. Additional
investment in teaching equipment is an essential requirement in the
reorientation of instruction toward problem solving and practical applica-
tions. The sector program aims at increasing equipment provisions from an
average of 20% of the MOE standard to about 70% overall in engineering and
technician fields, or from US$500 per student to about US$2,000 per student.
Full attainment of the MOE standard would require unrealistically high
investments in the near term and would need to be deferred to the latter part
of the 1980s. Priority in the allocation of equipment funds would be given
to:
(a) selected fields, such as electronics, industrial, mechanical,
electrical, and chemical engineering, in which 100% of the MOE
requirement would be reached;
(b) basic laboratory facilities in which teaching concentration
would be increased;
(c) special graduate school programs for training teaching staff;
and
(d) institutions that consolidate resources and share large
equipment items.
The proposed investment in equipment would enable laboratory work to be
increased in engineering from about 10% to 30% of available time and in
technician training from about 20% to 40%.



- 26 -
5. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.01     M4anagement arrangements have been well organized for execution of
the sector program. Tlhese arrangements include:
(a) a sector approach for managing the complex program;
(b)  effective plans for organization and staffing;
(c)  well defined and tested implementation procedures;
(d)  relevant criteria for allocation of loan funds; and
(e)  a realistic implementation schedule.
These arrangements are discussed in turn below.
The Sector Approach
5.02      The improvement program for higher technical education would be
composed of national programs, and subprojects for particular institutions.
It is expected that the overall program would include about 10 national
programs and about 55 iinstitution subprojects. National programs would cover
the whole subsector, puiblic and private, and would include such activities as
creation of the manpower monitoring system and accreditation agencies, as well
as curricula and staff development (fellowship) programs. Subprojects would
pertain to a specific college or university and would include provision of'
equipment, materials, and construction of physical facilities.
5.03      A deliberate effort has been made in formulating the program to rely
as much as possible on the borrower as regards both procedures and allocations
of funds. An intermediary institution, the Ministry of Education, would
assume responsibility for the identification, preparation, appra:Lsal, appr:val
and supervision of subprojects.  Recipient institutions, individual collegan
or universities, would submit loan applications to the MOE for assistance.
These loan applications would be appraised and approved by the MOE in
accordance with methodology and criteria agreed with the Bank. Project
management would be accountable to an interministerial committee headed by EPB
and to periodic review by the Bank.
5.04      This approach would be the most effective and efficient way
to execute the improvement program for higher technical education. The
program is complex, covering about 55 institutions with varying needs and
involving both hardware and software elements. Bank review of the technic;al
merits of assistance to, and detailed supervision of, each institution wou>d
not be workable for this number of subprojects. Appraisal and supervision
of subprojects could be done more efficiently by the MOE than by an extern:l
agency. The requirement that each institution submit a loan application
would also be an effective way to allocate loan funds. The approach would
help ensure that:



- 27 -
(a) the needs of each institution are adequately covered in the
subprojects;
(b) the most interested and committed institutions participate in the
program; and
(c) loan funds are allocated for the best proposals through competition.
Organization and Staffing
5.05      The Government has devised an effective organization plan and an
adequate staffing plan for implementing the program.
5.06      Organization.  The organization plan relies on existing line
agencies in the MOE, builds on their strengths and includes appropriate checks
and balances. Diagram 5.1 shows the principal agencies responsible for
execution. Overall responsibility for implementation of national programs and
subprojects would be divided between the CEB and IEB (educational aspects) and
EFB (physical aspects). The Educational Facilities Bureau (EFB), which has
had extensive previous experience in executing Bank education projects, would
be responsible for planning and supervising the physical aspects of project
implementation and for general coordination of the program and liaison with
the Bank. The EFB has demonstrated its competence to handle the central role
in project implementation. It was established within the MOE to execute the
Bank's First Education Project (Credit 151-KO) and subsequently developed into
a well-organized department with an experienced staff able to assume
responsibility for all MOE construction programs, including those of later
Bank projects (Credit 394/Loan 906-KO, and Part of Loan 1096-KO). EFB, in
conjunction with OSROK, would have overall responsibility for the procurement
of instructional equipment and delivery to project institutions. EFB would
also be responsible for reporting to the Government and the Bank.
5.07      The College Education Bureau (CEB) in the MOE would manage the
educational aspects of university (engineering and management) education, and
the Industrial Education Bureau (IEB) that of technician training. Within
this context CEB and IEB would be responsible for implementing technical
assistance programs under the project e.g., selecting and appointing local or
foreign specialists, assigning their duties, and organizing fellowship schemes
and in-service training. CEB and IEB would further oversee the establishment
of the accreditation system, including the secretariats for the three evalua-
tion subcommittees. The accreditation agencies and selected educational
institutions would be jointly responsible for the development of curricula,
teaching materials, case studies and improved delivery systems.
5.08      Two committees, the newly created Deliberation Committee /1 and the
existing interministerial Planning and Management Committee (under the
/1 This Committee has recently been established within the MOE and includes
members from public and private institutions of higher education and
representatives of research and industry.



- 28 -
Diagram  5.1
KOREA
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION SECTOR PROGRAM
Organization and Responsibilities for Management
AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY
APPROVAL                                                            , MIISERE.P.B.
GENERAL MANAGEMENT &                                           VICE MINISTE                PLANNING )IND
INTER-MINISTERIAL                                         I                                MANAGEME:N1'
COORDINATION                                                                                COMMITTI E
EVALUATION                                            ASSIST.IMIN ASI
SUB-COMMITTEES
EVALUATION &
ACCREDITATION                     I
L ACCREDITATION
A G ENCIFS[
REVIEW OF APPRAISAL                                                                   [   DELIBERAT 01 ]
COMMITT. E    J
APPRAISAL                                                                                   TASK.E _  A
RIE-APPRAISAL, MODIFICATIONS
PROCUREMENT                            OSROK                                                MINISTRY OF
-         ~~~AUDIT.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION,
SUPERVISION, COST CONITROL,                                  DIR. GENERAL E.F.B.
MONITORING & EVALUATION,                                     EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
DISBURSEMENTS, DAY-TO-DAY
MANAGEMENT
EFB - PHYISCAL ASPECTS
CEB & IEB - EDUCATIONAL
ASPECTS        |SUB-COMPONENT    SUB-COMPONENT                                  SUB-COMPO EN
MANA(,ER         MANAGER                                        MAN   1
ENGINEERING      MANAGEMENT                                     TECHN IN
|EDUCATION       EDUCATION                                      EDUC   IN_
rC. E.B.    I      r       E. F. B.     II.E.B,
COLLEGE EDUCATION             EDUCATIONAL            INDUSTRIAL ED JCATION
BUREAU                 FACILITIES BUREAU               BUREAU
IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION                                     TECHNICAL
(DF SUB-PROJECTS                                             ASSISTANCE GROUP
World Bzi k -20904



- 29 -
Economic Planning Board) would play important roles in reviewing subproject
documents (subloan applications, and appraisal and implementation reports) and
settling unresolved questions on approval of subprojects.
5.09      The Vice Minister of Education would coordinate loan activities
handled by EFB, CEB and IEB. The position of Executive Director, with
responsibility for day-to-day implementation of the proposed sector loan,
would be held by the Director General of the EFB. In addition, three persons
would be designated subcomponent managers (two in the CEB for engineering and
management education and one in the IEB for technician education).
5.10      Staffing.  The Government has taken steps to assure that the
implementation agencies would have sufficient competent staff to manage the
proposed sector program. The key agency, the EFB, doubled its staff in 1979
to about 125 and plans to have 150 staff by 1980 in anticipation of the
workload imposed by execution of the proposed program. In addition,
existing staff of EFB would be able to assume new tasks under this loan when
previous Bank projects are completed in early 1980. The staff level is
sufficient to handle the planning and supervision of equipment procurement
under the project, as well as maintaining EFB's responsibility for civil
works for all other schools in Korea. The procurement agency, OSROK,
increased its staff for previous Bank projects. The annual volume of
procurement (less than US$25 million) is not expected to exceed previous
levels by more than 20% and is therefore within the agency's capacity. The
CEB and IEB each have about 35 staff members. It has been estimated that
the staff of these two agencies could each evaluate about 30 subproject
applications a year due to similarity of subprojects, oversee implementa-
tion, and monitor progress, all of which would not exceed demands on staff
under the program. The MOE has also arranged for outside assistance to
complement its permanent staff capability. These arrangements include the
formation of a technical assistance group of local and foreign specialists
(in part, using funds from Loan 1096-KO) to assist in subproject
preparation, and the appointment, during implementation, of ad hoc task
forces of up to 20 specialists (from universities and industry) to assist in
subproject appraisal. It is expected that modifications would be made in
these organization and staffing plans as experience is gained during
execution.
Procedures
5.11      The Government has designed and tested procedures appropriate for
the implementation of the program. These procedures are as shown in
diagram 5.2. The procedures cover generation, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation. They have been designed to ensure that subprojects conform
with the MOE's overall development plan for higher technical education, adhere
to the main project objectives and that implementation is feasible. Proce-
dures for identifying and preparing subprojects were tested during appraisal
for two model subloan applications and were found to be satisfactory. In



- 30 -
Diagram 5.2
KOREA
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION SECTOR PROGRAM
P'rocedures for Genwrating and Procaesing Sub-Loan Applications
STOPPED    I
GOT. INFORMS                                                YES
ITITUTIONS          -NTS TO AL Y 
STONOED  ,<  IIOCRECUESTS|
IEFB. CEE. 
CRTR ,~             AS HOCAPER   1PAR        R     S
O    APPLICATION
IYES                              UL   IYECT
(OMOOICAT IODNSD      ,           PES
'RITERIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~\CRTRA                                                              __.
PO NTN TASK    E
r  - -_-    SUBMITTED TO           ~      PREPARES        ,      APPRAISAL   >~C    APPROVAL ,EVI
D.C. fOR REVIEW     I    APPRAISAL     I        NECESSARY               CRArERIA
ITES         _RECOMM.               I      REPORT      |        -      /\
___   __                        /                                       -1OA          }_
P  NO  MODIFICATIONS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIAINS >F10.                                                        S-OPD       J
STOP PEG  TOMEET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O ME
 VRITERIASSS CRITERIA                                                                         C
I~ ~~~ ~ ~ Io  -  MEETS        REI
U'ITTED  ~       PREARE                 G_; RK BI
IYES ~~|N IIERTE2M :EOR
12~~~~                                  ~         ~~~~~~~~                1 I  IVES\        , ___   
STOPPED  ~          --      -          APROA
IMIODIFOOIPICATIONSCATIONMODITICATION
TO _MEET      OTHER    %        RECOMMENDATIONTEEIRETOE
__i_E.IC.MNITE
|TSUBMITTED TO   I
_ ...          PLANNINGA    I         NO
L  I~~~~~~~~ORRTTEEEJ~~~~~~~~~~~0 .
(     ,      \    M OO I F  EnO >        IES
.......... .. - Z\< APPROVED  >
NOI
IY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EFS & ICE.MSTR_2
L _-_       FORWIARDSE_             MINISTER     YES       SENT TO EFB _IMPLEMENTON  _
AS6SREVIATIONS                                                                            NO
EF6 _ EDECATIONAL FACILITIESBRUREAUE,
CE6 - COLLEGEEOUCATIONSUREALI~ 
ZER      INDESTRIAL EGECATION BUREAU,                                                     PE
STOPPED~~~~~~~~~~~~T ME  IR                      N 
EPB- ECONOMIC PLANNING SOARS                                                     I    STOPM|
DOC. - DELIBERATION COMMITTEE                                                       -_ST____ T
A 1 X13.1079                                                                                                                                                         World E. -X200



- 31 -
addition, the Government brought to negotiations the loan applications and
appraisal reports of five subprojects (three national and two institutional
programs) for review by the Bank. The appraisals of the subprojects were
generally found to be satisfactory.
5.12      Identification.  National programs have been formulated by the MOE
based on the findings of the three study reports. Subprojects for specific
institutions, except for several test cases, have not yet been identified.
These subprojects would be decided during the course of implementation based
on loan applications submitted by individual universities and colleges. The
MOE would advise individual institutions about the requirements for subproject
applications, the items eligible for project financing and would solicit
applications. Based on a recent survey through the receipt of about fifty
loan applications, the MOE has determined that there is s-'fficient interest
among private institutions to borrow from the loan funds.
5.13      Preparation.  The MOE would prepare subloan applications for
national programs; individual institutions would prepare their own subproject
applications. However, some colleges/universities would not have the techni-
cal competence to prepare an acceptable application and would be able to seek
assistance from the MOE. Assistance would be provided by the relevant MOE
bureau using the technical assistance group. A detailed report would be
prepared for each subproject in accordance with guidelines for subloan
applications and a pro forma provided by MOE. The Government would bear any
costs involved in providing preparation assistance.
5.14      Appraisal.  The three MOE bureaus would initially screen subloan
applications to determine whether agreed criteria have been met.  If met, the
Government would appoint task forces on an ad hoc basis for appraisal.  The
membership of each task force, composed of Korean experts, would depend on the
expertise required, which in turn would depend on the content of the subloan
application. The task force would review the application, make a field visit
if necessary, and submit an appraisal report on a standard format to the
Deliberation Committee Chairman (Assistant Minister) through the EFB.
5.15      Approval.  The Deliberation Committee would review and approve (or
request modifications of) subprojects based on the appraisal report of the
task force. Any subproject application exceeding US$2.5 million equivalent of
Bank financing would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval./I This
amount would be adjusted during implementation to achieve prior Bank review of
about 20% of all subprojects. The Bank would make a random ex post review of
smaller subprojects during supervision visits. After Bank approval has been
obtained for the larger subprojects, the Deliberation Committee would submit
the application to the Vice Minister of Education. If outside agencies were
/1 The amount of Bank loan per subproject would average US$1.5 million
equivalent.



- 32 -
involved, or the subproject raised substantive issues, the application wolild
be forwarded to the interministerial Planning and Management Committee cf thei
EPB for its recommendations.  Based on these recommendations the Vice Min:.ster
would forward the subproject application to the Minister of Education fc.r
final approval. During negotiations the Government agreed thai: all subrlrject
applications exceeding US$2.5 million of Bank financing would be sent tco the
Bank for review prior to being submitted, to the Vice Minister.
5.16       Supervision.  The Vice Minister, assisted by the Executive Director,
would oversee the implementation of national programs and the subproject;.
The Executive Director, in turn, would depend on the three subcomponent
managers for supervision of the educational aspects of the program and o-l the
staff of EFB for supervision of procurement. The Executive Director wouLc be
responsible for following up on the execution of subprojects at particula.r
colleges/universities. The role of the Bank would be to hold cLiscussion.3 on
policies affecting the subsector, check overall progress on institutiona.L
reforms, and make random checks on approved subloan applications to ensu-'e
that they conform with agreed criteria. It is not expected that the Bank
would become involved in the details of assistance to particular subprojects.
5.17       Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  The three subcomponent managers
(para. 5.09) would be given the responsibility of continuously monitoring the
progress of each subcomponent.  These persons would be responsible for collec -
ting up-to-date infornation on the status of their respective components and
preparing quarterly evaluation reports for the Executive Director (Diagr,an
5.1)./1  Particular attention would be paid to the recruitment of new teiFching
staff . The Executive Director would submit quarterly progress reports tl the
Vice Minister and to the Bank. In addition, a panel of experts for each
subcomponent, under the aegis of the respective accreditation agency, wol..1i
report annually to the Vice Minister and the Bank on achievement of goaL: and
would make recommendations for improvements and modifications in the proi:osed
loan. These reports would form the basis for comprehensive annual loan . nl
policy reviews with the Bank. During negotiations the Government and Bark
reached agreement on monitoring and reporting requirements, including
timing of annual comprehensive reviews with the Bank on performance.
Criteria for Allocation of Loan Funds
5.18       General guidelines and criteria have been established to promot:e
the achievement of program goals. Three sets of criteria (Annex 1) would be
followed in implementing the proposed loan, viz. criteria by which instit:u--
tions would be eligible to apply for loan funds; general guidelines on the
/1  An early task during project implementation would be the development if an.
effective information system on project accomplishments and the estahlI.sh-
ment of specific targets against which to measure progress. Some targets
are implicit in the proposed covenants and implementation schedule.



- 33 -
allocation of loan funds by the MOE; and criteria for the approval of
subprojects by the MOE. These criteria serve to ensure that loan funds would
be directed towards the achievement of program objectives and establish the
parameters within which the Government may make decisions in allocating loan
funds. The criteria may be amended by mutual agreement in light of experience
in approving subprojects during the first year of implementation. During
negotiations the Governnent agreed that it would allocate loan funds in
accordance with criteria and guidelines agreed with the Bank.
5.19      Eligibility.  Only existing institutions of minimum size possessing
five-year development plans would be eligible to apply for loan funds. First,
the program would seek to strengthen and consolidate institutions giving
higher technical training. Because Korea has a large number of well-
established institutions offering higher technical education support would be
directed at quality improvement at these existing institutions rather than
creation of new institutions. However, new courses or departments, for
instance, in the priority fields of industrial engineering and fuel techno-
nology, would be eligible for assistance. Second, the use of loan funds would
also seek to reduce the fragmentation of departments within an institution.
Therefore, the eligibility of an institution would depend on its meeting also
minimum college, class and faculty size requirements./I Third, an attempt
would also be made to assure that loan funds would be allocated to institu-
tions that are committed to quality improvements. This would be done through
the requirement that each institution prepare a five-year development plan to
be eligible for assistance. This plan would contain both an analysis of
strengths and weaknesses at the institution and targets for quality improve-
ment, such as staff:student ratios, by which progress could be measured. The
Government would extend technical assistance to help institutions in
preparation of these development plans.
5.20      General Guidelines for the Allocation of Loan Funds.  The MOE would
approve subprojects based on a set of guidelines formulated to assure a
balanced investment program. These guidelines would help ensure sufficient
concentration for individual subprojects to have an impact on quality
improvement and, to the extent that suitable applications permit, a reasonable
geographic spread of project benefits throughout the country. Priority would
be given to expansion of graduate programs and to staff development. The
guidelines cover the following areas:
(a) allocation for postgraduate education (at least 20-50% of total loan
funds would apply to postgraduate programs, depending on the field);
/1 For engineering departments, at least 5 faculty and an entry quota of 40
students; for management schools, at least 5 faculty, 20 graduate stu-
dents at a student:staff ratio of 120 or less; and for technician train-
ing, colleges should have at least 20 teachers and 500 students by 1980.



- 34 -
(b) participation by private institutions (at least one third of the
subprojects or one third of the loan funds by field would be for
private institutions);
(c)  size of subprojects (a minimum of US$500,000 for administrative
convenience up to a maximum of 10% of available loan funds for the
field of study to any one subproject);
(d)  number of subprojects (no more than three-fourths of esxisting under-
graduate engineering and technician institutions and no more than
ten graduate institutions so as not to spread loan funds too
thinly); and
(e) regional distribution (at least half the subprojects would be
outside the Seoul area).
There would be exceptions to these guidelines and they would need to be
interpreted flexibly so as not to limit unduly the approval of high quality
subproject applications. It is expected that the guidelines would need to be
modified in the light of experience by mutual agreement during the course of
implementation.
5.21      Approval of Subprojects.  The MOE would evaluate and approve sulo-
project applications on the basis of three criteria, viz:
(a) relevance to sector program objectives;
(b) feasibility of proposed subprojects; and
(c) efficiency of the proposed subprojects.
The first criterion, relevance, means the degree to which the proposal wol_li
meet the overall objectives of quality improvement as defined in Annex 1.
This consideration would include the analysis of the institution's need f(:r
assistance and whether the overall quality improvement plan for the
institution has clear targets and programs consistent with program
objectives.  The second criterion, feasibility, pertains to the degree to
which the proposal cou:ld be achieved. This consideration would include suich
topics as the incentives being given to recruit staff (i.e., evidence that:
the proposed staff development plan could be implemented as planned), the
availability of sufficitent budget resources to operate the institutions at
higher quality levels; the adequacy of proposals for accommodating and
maintaining equipment, ability of the institution to manage the subproject
and, for private institutions, the ability to repay the loan. Commitment 3o'
the borrower to the subproject would also be an important factor in
assessing the feasibility of proposals. Third, proposals would be evaluatac.
according to the extent to which loan fund[s would be used efficiently. ThiE;
criterion would include such aspects as the common use of facilit:ies and
equipment (i.e., utilization rates). Annex 1 provides a further explanatir.
of the criteria guiding allocation of loan funds.



- 35 -
Implementation Schedule
5.22      The MOE has prepared a detailed and reasonable schedule for imple-
mentation of the proposed program. The number of subprojects to be approved
under the program can only be tentative at this stage, but it is estimated
that the program would encompass about 10 national and about 55 institu-
tional subprojects. A tentative schedule has been drawn up that allows
implementation procedures to benefit from experience in processing the
first few subprojects. Five subprojects have been prepared, appraised and
approved after Bank review so that their implementation may begin in early
1980. During this review agreements were reached on modifications to the
preparation requirements and appraisal criteria. An additional 50
subproject applications have been submitted by institutions to the MOE.
These will be revised in early 1980 to conform with revised guidelines.
Because of the similarity among groups of applications, the MOE expects to
be able to appraise most of these applications by the end of 1980. Imple-
mentation of the approved subprojects would begin in 1981 with completion
of Bank-assisted subprojects by the end of 1983. The Closing Date for the
proposed loan would be June 30, 1984.



- 36 -
6. COSTS AND FINANCING
6.01      Costs are defined as the total inivestment program for higher tech-
nical education for 197C-83, of which the proposed loan would finance a
part.  The volume of the investment program for higher technical education
program is sufficient to effect important structural changes and Lmprovements
in the system of higher technical education. The investment program is
economical and would be financially feasible.
6.02      Investment Program.  The investment program 1979-83/1 for public
and private higher technical education is costed at $515 million net of
contingencies and $700 million with contingencies (Tables 6.1 and 6.2). ThM
investment program is based on the costs necessary to achieve (a) projected
enrollment expansion; and (b) improvement in the quality of existing facil-
ities. The public sector investment program, $315 million net of contingen-
cies, includes $115 million for national programs (para. 5.02) and $200 mil-
lion for subprojects/2 (buildings and equipment) at public colleges and
universities. The private investment program for private institutions is
estimated at $200 million and would cover only about 40% of the pr`ojected
needs for expansion and quality improvement. This proportion cannot be
greater because of constraints on the capacity of private institutions to
mobilize the necessary investment funds (para. 3.15). The allocation of
investment bietween components shows that engineering education and technician
training would receive $250 million and $190 million, respectively; management
education, where equipment needs are less, would receive $75 million
(Table 6.1).
6.03      Base cost refers to 1979 prices.  Civil works costs are estimated
on the basis of Korea Economic Planning Board's standards for building unit
costs.  Equipment costs ;are based on the MOE standard equipment list of 197,
and are reasonable. Instructional equipment and professional services
(specialists and fellowships) are exempt from taxes.  The technical
assistance component would include 600 man-months of specialist services an(I
8,800 man-months of fellowships with estimated costs at US$3.2 million and
US$10.9 mill-ion, respectively. The average man-month costs of specialist
/1  The Government has formulated an eight-year (1979-86) investment plan
for the higher techn:ical education subsector. This plan, with an invest-
ment estimated at US$1 billion equivalent (constant 1979 prices), covers
two plan periods, including part (1979-81) of the Fourth Plan and the
whole of the Fifth Plan.  Bank support :is being proposed for the first
five years of this plan; for comparability, this first phase (1979-83) hs-
been costed separately and is referred to as the Government's program.
12 The cost estimates for subprojects are tentative and would depend on thE
number and type approved during implementation.



- 37 -
Table 6.1: INVESTMENT PROGRAM FOR HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION, BY COMPONENT
(1979-83)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Program component           ---- (Won billion)  ---    ----   S$ million) ----
Engineering education        50         70       120       110       140        250
Management education          25         15       40        50        25         75
Technician training          45         45        90        90       100        190
Total Base Cost /a   120          130       250       250      265        515
Contingencies                40         50        90        85       100        185
Total                  160        180       340      335       365         700
Table 6.2: INVESTMENT PROGRAM BY PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTOR
(US$ million)
Public
National                                      Private
programs /a    Subprojects    Subtotal    subprojects    Total
Engineering          85              85           170              80          250
Management           15              45             60             15           75
Technician           15              70            85             105          190
Base cost           115             200           315             200          515
Contingencies        40              70           110              70          185
Total        155             270            425             270         700
/a Includes staff development for all institutions, public and private.



- 38 -
services, including salary, fees, international travel and subsistence is
expected to average about US$5,400 per man-month. The man-month cost of
fellowships is expected to average about US$1,300. About 10 policy studies
would be included and the cost of each is estimated to average about
US$75,000.
6.04      The contingencies estimated at $185 million bring the total invest-
ment program to $700 million (Table 6.1). Physical contingencies are
estimated at 10% and price contingencies at 24% of the base cost on the
basis of expected inflation of 8-9% p.a. in local costs and 6% in foreign
costs of equipment. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at 25% for civil
works, 90% for instructional equipment, 50% for systems building, recruit-
ment and training of new staff and curriculum development, and 90% for
technical assistance. The foreign exchange cost of the total investment
program is US$365 million or 53% of total cost.
6.05      The economical nature of the investment program is reflected in
low unit costs which, in turn, are explained by high utilization rates. The
unit costs of capital investment per student place are estimated at US$3,401)
for engineering education, US$1,200 for management education and US$4,300
for technician training. These costs compare favorably with unit costs in
the region. Planned utilization ratios both for civil works and equipment
are also high at about 7D-80% of the total available periods per week./l
6.06      Recurrent Cost Implications.  The additional recurrent expendi-
tures generated by the public investment program are within the financial
capacity of ithe Government. Enrollment expansion during the investment
period, in combination with higher standards (reflecting lower student/
teacher ratios, increased practical work and improved staff compensation)
would lead to higher recurrent expenditures. For the public sector, these
additional expenditures would represent an increase of only about 1% of the
MOE's budget (Table 6.3). Recurrent costs would also increase for private
institutions as a result of improved education standards. For private
institutions, incremental recurrent expendiltures would average about $40
million, or about 13% of their 1978 annual expenditure as shown in Table
6.3. Fee increases, justified by the expected high rates of return to
students pursuing higher technical education, would largely meet the higher
recurrent costs of private institutions./2  The introduction of student
loans would help students pay for the tuition costs and reduce any inequities
in access which otherwise would have occurred.
/i Furthermore, facilities would be used by evening class students, about
16% of total enrollment in 1979.
/2  A study would be undertaken by the Government under the program to
assess the feasibility of increasing student fees and introducing
student loan funds at least in higher tetchnical education as a
means to avoid causing undue hardship to students.



- 39 -
Table 6.3:  ESTIMATED ADDITIONAL PRIVATE AND MOE RECURRENT EXPENDITURES, 1979-83
(constant 1979 prices)
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
-----------(US$ million)----------------
Public                             15         30         40          45        45
MOE budget                      2,310      2,660      3,060       3,520    4,040
Public expenditure
as a percentage
of MOE budget                    0.7%      1.1%       1.3%        1.3%      1.1%
Private                            20         30         45          50        55
6.07       Financing and Bank Contribution.  Table 6.4 outlines the proposed
financing plan for the investment program.
Table 6.4: OVERALL FINANCING PLAN (1978-83)
Sources of finance
Proposed              % IBRD
Type of Program             Government   Private    IBRD Loan   Total  Financing
---------------- $ million --------------
Public (Total)                (370)         ( - )        (60)       (430)      (14%)
National                      140           -           20         160        13%
Subprojects                  230            -           40         270        15%
Private-Subprojects              -           230          40         270        15%
Total                           370          230         100         700        14%
% Total                       53%           33%         14%        100%
The Government would undertake 53% of the total investment program, private
sources would be expected to finance 33% and the proposed Bank loan of
$100 million equivalent would cover 14% of the total investment program.
The loan would represent 27% of the estimated foreign exchange component.



- 40 -
6.08      The Government's investment program is feasible and within the
financial capacity of the MOE. The peak yearly capital investment of MOE
would be roughly US$100 million in 1981. This represents less than 4% of
the estimated annual budget for MOE in 1981 or about 20% of the capital
expenditure, which are reasonable proportions in view of the urgency for
improvements in higher technical education. Capital expenditures in privatt
institutions would be financed mainly from their own funds, present
endowments, contributions from industry and, if needed, loans from commercial
banks. In the 1979-83 period, these sources are expected to generate about
$230 million in current prices, or 85% of ithe total investment in
private institutions. Since the Government has provided assurances to the
Bank during negotiations that private institutions will be financially
assisted whenever necessary, this is considered a reasonable burden (para.
3.15). The remainder would be met from the Bank loan.
6.09      The proposed Bank loan of $100 million would include approximatelr
$60 million for engineering, $4 million for management and $36 million for
technical training. These amounts were determined by the government in
accordance with overall priorities and relative need for foreign exchange byz
component. Table 6.5 makes a tentative estimation of Bank financing by
component and category.
Table 6.5: TENTATIVE BANK FINANCING BY COMPONENT AND CATEGORY
Engineering   Management    Technician         Total
education/a   educatiorn       training      (rounded;
---------------- (S$ million) --------------------
National Programs
Specialists services      0.9          0.4               1.9            3.2
Fellowships                5.9         2.4               2.6           10.9
Studies                    0.4          0.1              0.2            0.7
Subtotal                  7.2         2.9               4.7           15.0
Subprojects
Equipment, books          37.5          0.1             22.1           60.0
journals, etc.
Base Cost Subtotal
Contingencies               15.3          1.0              9.2           25.0
Total (rounded)        60.0          4.0             36.0           100.0
/a  Includes US$0.2 million for the establishment of the manpower monitoring
system (US$0.13 million for specialists services and US$0.07 mi:Llion
for studies).



- 41 -
6.10      Financing of Private Subprojects.  Assistance for software
(curricula and staff development) would be financed by the government for
private institutions on a grant basis. Assistance for private subprojects
(construction and equipment) would be done through loans by the government to
the private institutions. The terms (i.e. interest rate, grace period and
repayment period) for this onlending would be the same as those the government
receives from the Bank except that the government would also bear the risk of
fluctuating foreign exchange rates. Private institutions have indicated
substantial interest in applying for loans on these conditions since they are
more favorable than local commercial borrowing.
6.11      As a means to channel additional public funds into private education
(para. 3.16), the government agreed during negotiations that it would:
(a) undertake a study before June 30, 1980 to determine the financial
requirements of private institutions providing technical education; (b)
submit its main conclusions and recommendations to the Bank; (c) discuss and
agree with the Bank on the practical measures needed to be taken to
effect the required improvements of the system of private higher technical
education with a view to beginning by January 1, 1981, the implementation of
a three-year program aimed at providing private institutions with required
resources; (d) until such time as such three-year program is implemented,
set aside funds annually to subsidize the borrowing of eligible private
institutions from commercial banks for quality improvement (representing
the difference between the prevailing interest rate as charged by the
commercial banks and the interest rate applicable to the proposed Bank loan);
(e) ensure that these loans would have maturities of 10 to 12 years; and (f)
allow private institutions to borrow from the National Investment Fund which
provides concessional financing for specified developmental activities.
6.12      Procurement.  Under the proposed loan, project teaching equipment
would be procured costing about US$80 million. This equipment would be
distributed among approximately 55 institutions throughout the country. More
than half of these institutions would be private. The equipment items
procured would be selected from the standard equipment lists of the MOE which
are acceptable to the Bank. The quantity and type of equipment would vary by
institution according to its existing inventory, enrollments and development
plans. The timing of procurement would also vary according to when the
subprojects were approved. An analysis of equipment contracts under Cr.
394/Ln. 906-KO and Ln. 1096-KO shows that the average size of each contract
was about US$30,000. Using this norm, it is expected that between 2,500 and
3,000 equipment contracts would make up the estimated US$80 million in the
equipment category under the proposed loan.
6.13      The Government and private institutions have well-developed proce-
dures for equipment procurement. The most efficient way to organize equip-
ment procurement under the proposed loan would be to allow the institutions to
follow their normal procedures to the maximum extent practicable. First,
private institutions normally procure their own equipment off-the-shelf after
shopping for the best price. Under the proposed loan, private institutions
would be permitted to procure their own equipment according to their
procedures which are similar to the Government's local procurement procedures.
Alternatively, at their option, private institutions could use the Government
procurement agency, OSROK. Second, procurement for public institutions would



- 42 -
be done by OSROK.  Equipment items would be grouped for bulk procurement tc
the extent this is posslble, given the differenit times of subproject appro-
vals.  Bid invitations for equipment of public institutions exceeding
US$500,000 would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Bank Gu:Ldelines. The standard preference in bid evaluatior.
would be accorded to locally manufactured goods under ICB. Bid invitation:
below US$500,000 would be procured on the basis of standard government pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank.  These procedures require local competitivo
bidding for contracts above W5 million, allow the participation of inter-
national suppliers, and make awards to the lowest evaluated bidder after
deliberation by a joint technical/OSROK committee.  These procedures have
proved effective in past education projects in procuring equipment at
competitive prices and with reasonable speed. Under the above procedures, il:
is expected that about 75% of the total equipment value would be procured
through ICB (including 60% of the $40 milljion of equipment for private
institutions and 90% of the $40 million in equipment for public institutiorLs,.
Awards would not be referred to the Bank for prior review.  OSROK would retaLn
bid evaluations and contracts for random ex post review by Bank st'aff during
supervision. It is expected that Bank field review of equipment awards wou ld
cover about 5% of the number (i.e. about 150 larger contracts, or all
contracts above $100,000:) and about 40% of the total value of al:L contracts.
6.14      Disbursements.  Disbursements under the proposed loan would be madE.
for:
(a) 100% of foreign exchange cost of imported equipment; 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; and 65% of
the cost of imported equipment purchased locally; and
(b)  100% of the cost of specialists services, overseas fellowships and
studies.
In view of the large number of local contracts (under US$200,000 equivalent'i
anticipated under the project, the Bank is reviewing an arrangement whereby it
would appoint a local bank of good standing, with a wide local network of
branches or correspondents, and which is authorized to deal in foreign
exchange, as the Bank's agent for processing withdrawal applications against
such project expenditures as the Bank may from time to time designate. The
agent would periodically send to the Bank the withdrawal applications it has;
processed, for approval and disbursement by the Bank. The supporting
documents together with the duplicate withd rawal applications would be
retained by the agent for inspection by the Bank. The agent's external
auditors will be required to periodically audit the agent's processing of t.e
withdrawal applications. The agent would not be permitted to engage in
prefinancing activities inconsistent with its agency functions.  If no local
bank is willing to accept: such conditions ol appointment, withdrawal
applications would be submitted without use of the agent, under statements cE
expenditure. Withdrawal applications for expenditures not designated for
processing by the application-processing agent, and in any case all appli-
cations relative to contracts subject to prior review by the Bank, will be
submitted to the Bank fox, processing.
6.15      The estimated disbursement schedules by project component, year
and semester are given in Tables 6.6 and 6.7.



- 43 -
6.16      Auditing.  Separate accounts would be established under the loan
to record the expenditure of proceeds. These accounts would be audited
by the Ministry of Education, in accordance with standard government pro-
cedures under the auspices of the Ministry of Audit. The Executive Director
would promptly furnish the Bank with the Ministry of Audit's Annual Audit
report of the loan accounts.
Table 6.6: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE BY COMPONENT AND YEAR
FY80     FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84      Total
Project component           ---------------- (US$ million) -------------------
Engineering education        0         10       19        17        14       60
Management education         0          1        2         1         0        4
Technicians education        0          5       16        11         4       36
Total                  0         16        37       29        18       100
Table 6.7: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE BY SEMESTER
Bank
FY &                                        Accumulated            Undisbursed
semester            Disbursements            disbursements              balance
(--------------------- (S$ million) -------------------
1980
2                        0                        0                     100
1981
1                        1                        1                      99
2                        b                       lb                      84
1982
1                       18                       34                      64
2                        19                      53                      47
1983
1                       17                       70                      30
2                        12                      82                      18
1984
1                       10                       92                       8
2                         8                     100                       0



- 44 -
7. BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.01      The proposed sector program would help eliminate major constraLiLts
on development of higher technical education by increasing the supply of
teachers, equipment and finance. First, establishment of a manpower
monitoring system and improvements in the management of enrollments woul(i
permit a better synchronization between the supply of, and demand for,
higher technical skills, thereby avoiding problems of scarcity which
currently impede industrial development. Second, the proposed program would
make a major impact on improving the skills and qualifications of graduai:es
through assistance for staff development, curricula development, equipment
and accreditation.  The skills of graduates such as in design and quality;
control, would be improved to approximate more closely those required by the
increasingly complex industries. Third, although.the proposed Bank
financing is small in relation to the size of the investment program, it is
justified by the contribution it would make to strengthen institutions ard
procedures. The approach to be followed under the project would enhance tie
institutional capacity of the MOE to appraise and supervise subprojects, and
the organization, procedures and criteria adopted could be used to implerelat
other improvement programs in the education sector. The program would also
assist the Government in addressing systematically the resource implications
of its expansion plans.
7.02      The basic justification of the proposed sector programn is that il:
would benefit industry.  Sustained economic growth in Korea depends upon
moving from dependence on labor-intensive industries to skill-intensive
export-oriented technologies. The proposed program would help support this
process by stabilizing the unit costs of high technology production. In
some modern technology-intensive industries, engineers and technicians ma-
represent as much as 25-30% of total employees compared with around 5% of
total employees in traditional light industry. Hence, wages for technica'.
manpower represent a significant proportion of total cost of production
in such industries. A raised supply of q[ualified technical manpower,
therefore, plays an imiportant role in stabilizing unit costs in such
industries. Second, the program would help reduce the costs of
in-service training. The improved formal training would reduce the
orientation period of graduates from the present two-to-three years to ab:ut
six months. The better trained graduates would be more immediately
productive on the job. Third, the international competitiveness of Koreai_
manufacture requires continued access by Korean industry to advanced fore:lga
technology. Such know-how is expensive, difficult to acquire, and often
immpossible to purchase.  Korean skilled technical manpower with experience
in foreign and advanced firms, who in turn are hired by other firms,
represents an important source of technology diffusion in Korea. The
greater supply of skilled technical manpower produced under the proposed
loan would help ensure a continued cost-effective diffusion of modern
technology.



- 45 -
7.03      The proposed loan entails some degree of risk, particularly with
regard to staff recruitment and implementation procedures. One risk
pertains to the supply of new teaching staff. The lack of incentives may
make it difficult to eliminate completely the present acute shortage of
teaching staff. Recruitment of teaching staff would be monitored inten-
sively, and the Bank and Borrower have agreed to make concerted efforts in
overcoming any shortfalls detected in the expansion program. Brain drain is
another risk. The technologists to be trained under the project are in
great demand worldwide. The possibility that some may leave Korea for long
term employment abroad cannot be excluded. However, in recent years the
economic incentives for skilled technical manpower have improved in Korea;
increasing numbers of high-level technical manpower have reportedly returned
to Korea. The success of the government's industrialization program depends
in part on continued adequate incentives for a sufficient number of highly
skilled technical manpower to remain in Korea. The proposed program
jQcludes, in particular, provisions to repatriate Korean nationals for
iehching a third risk is that the proposed sector approach is new for the
education sector in Korea, and it is reasonable to expect some initial
difficulties in implementation. However, the proposed management framework
could be adapted and changed by mutual agreement on the basis of early
implementation experience. Moreover, several lessons derived from
evaluation of the first education project /1 have been applied in the
design of the proposed program, viz: (i) the government participated
extensively in project identification and took full responsibility for
preparation of the proposed program; and (ii) equipment procurement has been
simplified by conforming largely to existing government procedures. On
balance, the experience and competence of the Borrower, its familiarity with
the content of the proposed program and commitment to the objectives of the
program have reduced the risks to acceptable levels.
11 Credit 151-KO, Project Performance Audit Report, 1801-KO, November 22,
1977.



- 46 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      During negotiations the government gave assurances on the follo.wing
matters:
(a)  performance of a satisfactory manpower monitoring system
(para. 4.05);
(b)  a flexible system for allocation of students in higher technica'.
education (para. 4.07);
(c)  establishment of an accreditation system acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.10);
(d)  incentives for recruitment and retention of teaching staff (pa r-I.
4.16);
(e) threshold for prior Bank review of subproject applications (para..
5.15);
(f)  criteria and guidelines for allocation of loan funds (para. 5.18);
and
(g)  measures to increase the financing of private institutions (pa -a.
6.11).
8.02      Subject to the above conditions the proposed project constitutE~s
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Korea of US$100 mi lion
equivalent, with a term of 17 years, including a grace period of 4 years



- 47 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA (EDUCATION V)
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION LOAN
Objectives. The objective of the sector program is to improve the
quality of higher technical education (engineering, technician and management
training). Quality improvement is this context is defined as achieving a
closer match between what the graduates of higher technical education know
and can do, and the knowledgge and skills they require to perform technical
tasks for future industrial development. Such quality improvement entails,
inter alia, changes in the content of teaching programs to make them better
related to the needs of future industrial development; improvements in the
number and qualifications of teaching staff; and improvements in teaching
facilities, particularly laboratory equipment.
1. Eligibility Criteria
All public and private institutions in engineering, management and
industrial technician training would be eligible to apply to the Ministry of
Education for loan funds under the program provided that:
1.        The institutions already exist in 1979; the loan can accommodate
new courses/departments in exceptional cases.
2.        The institutions are of the following minimum sizes:
(a) Engineering Department. At least five faculty members and a 40
student quota for Year 1 students;
(b) Technician Training. Junior Technical Colleges with at least 20
teachers and 500 students by 1980;
(c) Management Schools. At least five faculty members, 20 graduate
students and a student:staff ratio of 120 or less.
3.        The institution has a five-year development plan for quality
improvement which includes a systematic analysis of strengths and weaknesses
of teaching programs, staffing and facilities at the institution, and
identifiable targets in these areas to enable monitoring.  Such targets
would include proportion of time spent in basic engineering and in laboratory
work; staff: student ratios; proportion of staff trained and with indus-
trial experience; and proportion of MOE equipment standard met.
2. General Guidelines for Allocation of Loan Funds
Decisions by the Ministry of Education in approving subprojects
would follow these guidelines:/l
/1 It is expected that the guidelines would need to be modified in the
light of experience by mutual agreement during the course of
implementation.



48 -ANNEX 1,
Page 2
1.         Concentration of Funds.  It is expected that no more than three-
fourths of existing undergraduate engineering and technician institutions
would receive loan funds.  No more than ten graduate institutions would
receive loan funds.
2.         Distribution of Loan Funds by Level.  At least 20% of the funds
for engineering education and 50% of the funds for management education
would be allocated to the development of graduate programs.
3.         Participation of Private Institutions.  At least one-third of the
loan funds (except the management education component) would be allocated to
private institutions.
4.         Regional Distribution of Loan Funds.  No more than half the loan
funds (except the management education components) for undergraduate programs
would be allocated to institutions in the Seoul area.
5.         Maximum and Minimum Allocation per Subproject.  No undergraduate
institution would be eligible to receive more than 10% of the total amount
of respective total loan funds available for engineering and technicians'
education. For administrative convenience, each subproject except for
management education must be at least US$500,000 in size.
3. Contents of Loan Applications for Subprojects
Subproject applications should contain current, historical, and
projected information sufficient to describe the status of the institution's
program and the institution's intent for the future, as they are related to
the goals for the sector loan and to the goals for the institution. Data
would normally be presented, where available, by year for the previous three
years and for the future five years. Detailed content for loan applications
is expected to include information such as:
A.  Objectives and Means
1.        What problems the subproject would enable the institution to
solve; What the subproject would enable the institution to do better or
differently;
2.         How the subproj ect would accomplish these objectives; and
3.         What criteria and procedures would be used for measuring results
under the subproject, e.g.. tracer studies of graduates, achivement tests of
graduates.
B. Enrollment Plan
1.        Enrollments by year, level, and field of study (Actual 1977-79;/l
Projections 1980-84);
/1 Data, where possible, would be presented by year for the previous
three years and projected by year for the next five years.



- 49 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 3
2.        Graduates by year, level, and field of study;
3.        Ratios:  Internal efficiency rate (i.e. proportion of entering
students who complete each year, and the entire program, successfully on
schedule), graduation rate by year and field of study.
C. Staff Development Plan
1.        Teaching staff by field, level, and qualifiction (Actual, 1977-79;
projected 1980-84);
2.        Recruitment Plan
- number of teaching staff hired by year, level, and field (Actual
1977-79; projected 1980-84);
- sources of recruitment;
- recruitment incentives to be offered.
3.        Training Plan
- Number of staff trained by year and field (Actual 1977-79,
projected 1980-84)
- Proposed content and types of training programs (e.g., technical
and pedagogical, preservice and inservice)
D. Curriculum Plan
1.       Present (1979) and Proposed (1984) allocation of teaching time by
field in:
- basic science/engineering;
- laboratory work
2.       Proposed new teaching programs, e.g.:
- new fields;
- multidisciplinary
- consolidation of departments
- in-service courses for practitioners
3.       Proposed new teaching/learning methods, e.g. independent research,
case studies, problem-solving and simulations.
E. Physical Development Plan
1.       Inventory of Existing Buildings and Equipment (1979)
2.       Deficits in equipment and buildings as compared with MOE standards
3.       Targets for physical facilities and equipment.
- List of goods to be procured
4.       Proposed utilization ratios per week and per year (including a
separate list of any expensive equipment to be used by more than one Depart-
ment).



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
F. Financial Plan
1.       Expenditures by purpose (e.g. salaries, maintenance, etc.)
2.       Level of fees charged by field and the institution's average
student fee based on total fees collected divided by enrolled
students
3.       Income by source, i.e. fees, endowment, industry contributions,
government subsidy, etc.
4.       Proposed investment program by category (buildings, equipment, tEtc.)
5.       Proposed plan for financing investment program (i.e. loan amount,
counterpart financing and sources of counterpart financing)
6.       Proposed disbursement schedule
7.       Proposed schedule for repayment of principal and interest
G. Management Plan
1.        Organization and staffing - who will manage the subproject and how
20        Monitoring, evaluation and reporting
3.        Implementation schedule



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
4. Criteria for Evaluation and Approval of Subprojects
The Ministry of Education will appraise and approve loan applica-
tions on the basis of three criteria: relevance, feasibility and efficiency.
These criteria should form the basis by which any evaluating or appraising
group will arrive at a consensus, although it is recognized that the weight
assigned to individual factors may vary to fit the Korean situation.  Detailed
consideration of criteria is expected to include factors such as:
A. Relevance of Subproject to Quality Improvement Objectives
Subproject applications would be evaluated to determine the degree
to which they would meet overall program objectives of quality improvement
(as defined in Annex 1, p. 1). Particular care would be taken to ensure
that a close fit exists between targets or programs proposed and the causes
of quality problems identified by the institution in its five year
development plan (e.g. irrelevant training programs, staff or equipment
shortages). The analysis of relevance would cover the following topics:
1.        Enrollments.  Whether projected rates of enrollment expansion are
consistent with the overall manpower development plan of the Government and
would permit improvements to take place in staff:student ratios and proportion
of time spent in laboratory work. For undergraduate institutions preference
would be given to those with no, or only moderate, increases in enrollment.
2.        Staffing.  In view of the priority importance of staff development
preference would be given to proposals which include graduate programs for
increasing the supply of training of staff, or have strong undergraduate
staff development programs. The evaluation would cover both the quantity
and quality of staff as follows:
(a) Quantity. Present student:staff ratios would be compared
with targeted ratios by field and a determination would be made
of whether the targets are consistent with overall targets.
(Table 4.1).
(b) Quality. Present proportions of trained staff (both formal
training and industrial experience) would be compared with
targeted proportions and a determination would be made of
whether the targets for the institution are within targets
for the whole system (Table 4.4).
3.        Curricula.  Whether the planned changes would meet industry require-
ments. Proposals would be evaluated for the extent to which changes in
teaching programs would: (i) increase the proportion of student time spent
in practical laboratory work and in basic science/engineering, (ii) consoli-
date existing programs (e.g. introduce interdisciplinary programs), (iii)



- 53 -
ANIEX I
Page 7
C. Efficiency of Proposed Subproject
The third general appraisal criterion would assess whether the
subproject could be implemented at reasonable cost. This consideration
would include the following aspects:
1.        Unit Capital Costs.  Whether the investment cost per student
and per graduate would be reasonable.
2.        Utilization Rates.  Whether space utilization and equipment use
would be sufficiently intensive weekly and annually (e.g. whether expensive
equipment items would be shared between departments). Priority would be
given to equipment in the order of frequency of use.
3.        Staff Work Schedules.  Whether staff would have adequate (but not
excessive) weekly workloads.
It is expected that MOE will develop acceptable ranges for the
above factors, e.g. student/staff ratios, space utilization rates, staff
workloads, and unit costs and will specify any targets which may accompany
the appraisal and approval. It is expected that MOE will convey the results
of its appraisal to the institution and will receive periodic reports from
the institution on progress toward goals of the subproject and the achieve-
ment of targets set by MOE. Finally, it is expected that MOE will terminate
any subproject which is not achieving its targets over a reasonable period
of time.



- 54 -
ANN1..X 2
Page! L
KOREA (EDUCATION V)
HIGHER TECHNICAL EDUCATION LOAN
List of Working Papers and Project Related Documents
1. Comparative Education Indicators, June 1979
2. Educational Pyramid, 1978 (Chart)
3.  Higher Education and the Technical Subsector (Working Paper)
4. Summary of Previous World Bank Group Education Projects
in Korea
5.  Organization of the Ministry of Education, 1979 (Chart)
6. Responsibilities for Generating and Processing Subloan
Applications and Implementation (Working Paper)
7. Implementation Schedule (Chart)
8.  Draft Terms of Reference for Accreditation Agencies in:
A.  Engineering Education
B. Management Education
C. Technical Education
9.  Korean Institute for the Development of Engineering (KIDEE) -
Objectives and Organization
10. Korea Management Education Board (KMEB) - Objectives and Organization
11. Technican Education Research Institute (TERI) - Objectives and
Organization
12. Project Brief dated June 14, 1978
13.  Education Subsector Memorandum on Higher Technical Training, IBRD
Report No. 1927-KO dated June 26, 1978
14. Terms of Reference to First Stage Appraisal Mission dated October 19,
1978
15. Preliminary Findings and Conclusions of the First Stage Appraisal
Mission, November 18, 1978



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
16. Draft Status Report by Appraisal Mission, January 23, 1978
17. Final Report on the Proposed Fifth Education Project, Ministry of
Education, Republic of Korea, February 18, 1979
18. Summary of principal points recorded at the March 19 meeting with
Korean delegation by J.C. Calhoun dated March 20, 1979
19. Terms of Reference to Second Stage Appraisal Mission dated
March 23, 1979
20. An Improved System for Manpower Policy and Planning in Korea by
P. Eklund dated April 24, 1979 (Working Paper)
21. Industrial Strategy and Higher Level Human Resource Development -
Condensation of Points, memo by P. Eklund to R.K. Johanson
dated March 1, 1979
22. Technology Diffusion to Korean Manufacturing Firms by Source (Table)
23. Back-to-Office Report after second stage appraisal, May 4, 1979
24. Issues paper dated May 15, 1979
25. Decision Memorandum dated June 8, 1979
26. Contributions by J.C. Calhoun, Consultant on Engineering Education
27. Contributions by R.M. Macdonald, Consultant on Management Education
28. (a) Summary of Costs by Purpose of Programs
(b) Technical Assistance - Specialist Services Required and Studies
(c) Technical Assistance - Fellowships Required



