                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35062

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      (PPFI-P9680 PPFI-P9681 PPFI-P9682 IDA-32190 TF-29433)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$38.1 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                                SENEGAL

                                                 FOR A

          AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT

 IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER
                                     ORGANIZATIONS PROGRAM




                                              June 20, 2006




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development 4 (AFTS4)
Country Department 14
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                               CFAF 520 = US$ 1
                                   US$ 1 = SDR 1.52

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 AfDB      African Development Bank
ANCAR      Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural
           National Agency for Rural and Agricultural Counsel
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
ASPRODEB   Agence Sénégalaise pour la Promotion du Développement à la Base
           Senegalese Agency for the Promotion of Grassroots Development
CAR        Conseiller Agricole et Rural
           Agricultural and Rural Advisor / Counselor
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CLCOP      Cadre Local de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs
           Producer Organizations Local Council
CNCR       Conseil National de Concertation et de Coopération des Ruraux
           National Rural People Council for Consultation and Cooperation
CRCR       Cadre Régional de Concertation et de Coopération des Ruraux
           Regional Rural People Council for Consultation and Cooperation
EU         European Union
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
FNDASP     Fonds National de Développement Agro-Sylvo-Pastoral
           National Agricultural Development Fund
FNRAA      Fonds National de Recherche Agronomique et Agro-alimentaire
(NARF)     National Fund for Agricultural and Agro-food Research
           (National Agricultural Research Fund)
FSRRD      Fonds de Services Ruraux Régis par la Demande
           Demand Driven Rural Services Funds
GoS        Government of Senegal
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISRA       Institut Sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles
           Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
ITA        Institut de Technologie Alimentaire
           Food Technology Institute
LOASP      Loi d'Orientation Agro-Sylvo-Pastorale
           Framework Law for the Development of Agriculture, Forestry and
           Livestock

ONIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PO           Producer Organizations
PSAOP        Programme des Services Agricoles et appui aux Organisations
             Paysannes- Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
QEA          Quality at Entry Assessment
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SODEFITEX    Société de Développement des Fibres Textiles(Cotton Company)
SODEVA       Société de Développement pour la Vulgarisation Agricole
             Agricultural Extension Services Agency



                            Vice President:   Gobind T. Nankani
                          Country Director    Madani M. Tall
                           Sector Manager     Mary Barton-Dock
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Renato Nardello

                                          SENEGAL
                  Agricultural Services & Producer Organizations Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    34

Project ID: P002367                                                  Project Name: Agricultural Services & Producer
                                                                     Organizations Project
Team Leader: Renato Nardello                                         TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 19, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Agricultural Services & Producer Organizations           L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9680; PPFI-P9681;
                            Project                                                                  PPFI-P9682; IDA-32190;
                                                                                                     TF-29433
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (56%); Central government administration (31%);
                            Agricultural marketing and trade (13%)
                  Theme: Technology diffusion (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/08/1995                                     Effective: 12/31/1999                05/03/2000
     Appraisal: 06/03/1998                                         MTR: 12/31/2001                  10/15/2002
      Approval: 05/20/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV. OF SENEGAL/ MIN. OF AGRI. & LIVESTOCK / ANCAR / ASPRODEB
                                           / ITA & ISRA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Renato Nardello                                Marie-Helene Collion
ICR Primary Author:             Olivier Durand


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The PSAOP has been designed as a three-phase and ten-year program, financed by an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL). The present Implementation Completion Report (ICR) analyses the
execution and results of the first phase from May 2000 to May 2003 (extended to December
2005).

As stated in the original PAD, the development objective of the overall three-phase program is
the substantial increase of smallholder agricultural productivity, production and incomes
through technological change. The focus of the program is on: (i) institutional reforms to make
agricultural services accountable, more demand-driven and cost-efficient, and to increase the
participation of the private sector in a number of functions previously executed by the public
sector; (ii) generation and transfer of technologies, to improve agricultural productivity in a
sustainable way; and, (iii) empowerment and capacity-building of producer organizations.

The long-term vision of the PSAOP is characterized by: (i) strong and effective producer
organizations capable of co-managing the nature and quality of the services they receive and pay
for, as well as influencing the policy dialogue in the sector; (ii) efficient and de-concentrated
sector ministries focusing on their essential functions of policy formulation, planning, monitoring
and evaluation, as well as in the definition of the regulatory framework; and, (iii) financially
sustainable agricultural services, accountable to producers and relevant to their needs, evolving in
a competitive environment and responsible for the generation and dissemination of technologies
on a contractual basis.

The objective of the first phase was to set in place the institutional reforms to achieve
autonomy and accountability of public agencies and empower producer organizations. The
objective was clearly defined and translated the willingness to promote in-depth reforms of the
framework and environment of agricultural services, to move out of a state-led extension system,
to increase accountability of public services and to give more voice and responsibility to
producers in expressing their needs. It was relevant to the context of agricultural services in
Senegal at the time of project preparation by taking into account approach changes and by
drawing lessons from experiences in other African countries, especially the mixed and
disappointing results of the training and visit model. Specific objectives were set as guiding
principles for the different types of institutions: (i) for research, the objective was to improve
scientific and managerial capacities of the research institutes, while establishing open and
transparent financing mechanisms for research programs; (ii) for agricultural extension, the
priority was to reform existing extension services to make them more accountable to producers
and responsive to their needs through contractual arrangements; (iii) for producer organizations,
the objective was to help POs undertake capacity-building activities at the national, regional and
local levels; (iv) for the sector Ministries, the objective was to help public services refocus on their
core functions of regulation, policy-formulation and monitoring and evaluation.

The first phase's cost was US$47.1 millions with a IDA contribution of US$ 27.4 millions (SDR
20.2 millions equivalent).




                                                   - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Based on the five specific objectives, mentioned above, the project was divided in the seven
following components:
1- Component 1 ­ National Agricultural Research Fund (US$ 3.7 millions or 14.9 percent of
IDA financing): this component aimed at establishing a national agricultural research fund to
finance priority research programs, selected on a competitive basis and implemented under
contractual arrangement.
2- Components 2 and 3 ­ Research institute development: this component aimed at improving
research institutions' efficiency by strengthening their scientific and managerial capacities,
rehabilitating their infrastructure and upgrading their equipment:
    · Component 2 (US$ 3.2 millions / 12.9 percent) supports ISRA (Institut Sénégalais de
    Recherches Agricoles - Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute);
    · Component 3 (US$ 0.9 millions / 3.6 percent) support ITA (Institut de Technologie
    Alimentaire - Food Technology Institute).
3- Component 4 ­ Agricultural extension (US$ 7.5 millions / 30.1 percent): this component
aimed at creating a semi-public agency, co-managed by the GoS and POs, which will deliver
extension activities based on producers' demands and under contractual arrangements.
4- Component 5 ­ Producer organizations (US$ 3.5 millions or 14.1 percent): this component
aimed at strengthening producer organizations' capacities to provide services to their members, to
participate in research extension programs elaboration and services, and to become effective
partners for policy formulation.
5- Components 6 and 7 ­ Strengthening Public Services: the project aimed at reorganizing and
decentralizing the two sector Ministries and at refocusing services on their core public functions
(regulation, policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation...):
    · Component 6 (US$ 3.3 millions or 13.3 percent) helps the Ministry of Agriculture;
    · Component 7 (US$ 2.8 millions or 11.2 percent of IDA financing) helps the Ministry of
    Livestock.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
QAG assessment: The project was rated satisfactory by a quality at entry assessment (QEA)
carried out by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group in 2000. The QEA rating was based on the
following justifications: (i) the concept, objectives and the approach of the project are ambitious,
high-risk but high-reward and could result in radical transformation of Senegalese agricultural
services; (ii) the technical and economic aspects received great attention during components
design; (iii) environmental aspects were taken into account; (iv) poverty and social aspects were
analyzed, even a lack of specific measures to ensure that rural poor will get maximum benefit
from reformed services; (v) in-depth institutional capacity analysis were carried-out, and;     (vi)
risks and sustainability were correctly evaluated.




                                                 - 3 -

Overall, the project was judged ambitious and risky but appropriately designed to promote an
innovative approach that could result in substantial institutional changes. The QAG appreciated
the country ownership and the political commitment towards project objectives. A great attention
was given to the design of the project, along with a sound consultation process with producer
organizations.

However, the QEA rated readiness for implementation unsatisfactory, as the implementation
schedules were judged unrealistic given that the project was brought to the Board prematurely.
Another 6 months was needed to complete preparation. The three-year implementation period
initially planned has, thus, been extended twice by a total of 30 months, due to time required to
set-up reforms in the ground, to process procurement and award contracts (especially for NGOs
to support grassroots POs). The elaboration of the first year work programs for the different
institutions took time as well. In addition, the Government turnover following the 2000
Presidential elections further delayed more concrete implementation: incoming Ministers and key
managers of public services had to apprehend PSAOP philosophy and approach and then to adopt
the proposed agenda for implementation.

ICR assessment: The quality at entry has also been rated satisfactory by the ICR mission. All the
major QEA comments are shared by this ICR and have been confirmed by implementation. The
project concept was of very good quality and very innovative. At time of preparation, it
represented a real and huge change with past practices in Africa and aimed at promoting
completely new ways of working with producers and their organizations. The preparation team
took time to dialogue with partners to reach a common understanding of past failures and a
shared vision of what could be done. Considerable reflection and maturation time were required
to collectively design the project but the process resulted in a sound agreement among
stakeholders around project concept and content. The proposed project arrangements were
indeed very complex with 7 components but this set-up was justified by the fact that the PSAOP
merged three former projects (the "National Agricultural Research Project", the "National
Agricultural Extension Project and the "Small Grassroots Development Project"*) into a more
comprehensive approach to agricultural services. The project was also very innovative, almost for
all West Africa, by getting on board producer organizations as full partners for project elaboration
and negotiation. In addition, POs were given responsibilities in project implementation
arrangements and modalities, based on the promising results achieved in the field with pilot
activities undertaken during the preparation phase.

However, the M&E indicators that were judged satisfactory by the QEA appeared very difficult to
monitor, such as "30 percent of the total operational financing of ag. research allocated by the
research fund", "POs provide at least 75 percent of the services requested by producers" or "50%
of identified producer's needs translated into research projects". Targets set to the different
components were assessed as excellent by the QEA but some of them appeared unrealistic or
irrelevant. For instance: "470 agents recruited by ANCAR in year 2" while the new extension
system had first to be tested before being extended; at the end of the project ANCAR has been
able to deploy an network of 316 agents only. Other example for the research component: "at
least, 50 projects were to be financed by the research fund at the end of the project" but this



                                               - 4 -

criterion did not take into account the size and amount of proposed projects with respect to funds
allocated, and was not coherent with the objective of promoting quality; finally, the research fund
was very selective and financed only 30 projects out of 92 proposals. During project
implementation, these indicators were not closely monitored some of them were even dropped but
unfortunately they were not formally revised or cancelled.

NB: * the "Small Grassroots Development Project" was cofinanced by IFAD which was willing
to cofinance the PSAOP for US$ 6 million but finally withdrew its contribution as the project
approach was judged too much innovative and risky by a new coming manager at IFAD
headquarter.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the first phase is rated satisfactory because the project met its major
objective by contributing effectively to reforming the institutional framework and
environment of agricultural services. It effectively contributed to empower producer
organizations, to establish decentralized and demand-driven services, and to increase their
responsiveness and accountability to producers. All the key performance indicators (annex1 -
table 1) and the nineteen triggers for proceeding to the second phase (annex 1 - table 2) have been
fully completed and, in the case of POs, have been exceeded.

As such, the project achieved its five major objectives, presented in section 3.1, as follows
(detailed results for each of these objectives are presented in the next section): (i) ISRA and ITA
have improved their scientific and managerial capacities and a competitive financing mechanism
(FNRAA) is fully operational for the selection and funding of research programs; (ii) a
semi-private agency for agricultural advisory services (ANCAR) has been created to replace the
former extension services; (iii) POs have set up their autonomous financing mechanism (FSRRD ­
Fonds de Services Ruraux Régis par la Demande) to help grassroots POs access capacity
building programs and to support participation of producers in policy formulation; and, (iv) the
two Ministries have been reorganized at the central and regional levels with a complete
reformulation of core public services' functions.

The reforms and approaches promoted by the project, as well as the first results achieved in the
field (see section 4.2), strongly influenced Government officials and policy makers within the
sector ministries. The promulgation of the new framework law for agriculture (Loi d'Orientation
Agro-Sylvo-Pastorale ­ LOASP), in June 2004, brought legal recognition to, and confirmed
interest and relevance of, the institutional reforms supported by the PSAOP. The LOASP
provides institutional sustainability to the reforms undertaken during the first phase and sets the
framework for their financial sustainability.

As part of the PSAOP results recognized by the LOASP, the following major achievements must
be highlighted:

     Producer empowerment at the grassroots levels: a network of rural consultative fora
    (CLCOPs) has been successfully established in 152 rural council areas (out of 320) to



                                                 - 5 -

organize the demand of producers and their organizations. CLCOPs cover 63 percent of POs
inventoried in these areas and represent almost 50,000 producers. Thanks to the PSAOP, POs
now fully contribute to the definition, implementation and evaluation of research and
extension programs. It is now mandatory for the national agency for agricultural and rural
advisory services (ANCAR) to formulate its field programs based on diagnostics conducted
with grassroots organizations and consultations with producers. POs have established their
own capacity building fund (FSRRD - Demand Driven Rural Services Funds) that allocates
resources to micro-projects prepared by POs and selected within the framework of CLCOPs.
Beyond FSRRD, CLCOPs have been instrumental to organize consultation with grassroots
organizations and to disseminate information to producers. Many development partners,
including local governments, now recognize CLCOPs as the entry point for any activity
dealing with producers and their organizations at the field level.

 Effective participation of producers to policy formulation: thanks to PSAOP, POs have
taken part to decision-making processes as a real proposing force. For instance, the
contribution of the national umbrella federation of POs (CNCR) to the LOASP's formulation
has been substantial: CNCR pushed the Government to switch its vision on some issues or
even to withdraw some proposals not accepted by producers (on land tenure issues for
instance). In the board of the national research fund (FNRAA), they contributed to the
complete reformulation of research programs.

 Redefinition of the role of sectoral public services: the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Livestock disengaged from productive and marketing activities; they are refocused
on their core public functions of policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation, with the
creation of specific divisions for policy analysis, forecasts and statistics. Services have been
de-concentrated with the creation of Rural Development Regional Directorates (DRDRs),
which focus on field activity monitoring, statistical data collection, control and regulation,
elaboration of regional and departmental agricultural policies. Veterinary Regional Inspections
are responsible for designing, controlling and monitoring actions related to the control of
epizootic diseases, supervision of private veterinary practices, and animal food safety. Seventy
percent of staff has been assigned to decentralized offices. As demonstrated by the recent
elaboration of the LOASP, agriculture public services are less reluctant and more active in
collaborating and consulting producer organizations.

 From "top-down" extension services to demand-driven private providers of
agricultural advisory services: Institutional changes brought by PSAOP have strongly
contributed to make the delivery of agricultural services evolve from a "top-down" and
centralized approach to a demand-driven and regionalized approach. Many multi-stakeholders
workshops were organized to plan activities with producers and then to evaluate and draw
lessons with them. Some initiatives led by CNCR, such as an experimental project focusing on
groundnuts quality control, have also introduced the idea of private delivery of services.
Through the creation of the semi-private National Agency for Agricultural and Rural Counsel
(ANCAR), co-managed with POs and private agro-businesses, the PSAOP has replaced the
traditional "top-down" model of dissemination of technical packages with a demand-driven
and client oriented approach to agricultural advisory services (see details in section 4.2). It is



                                            - 6 -

    too early to measure the economic impact of such evolutions, especially on productivity, but
    beneficiary's assessments of agricultural services show that agricultural services and advisory
    programs do answer farmers' needs and preoccupations.

     Transparent and competitive research financing mechanism: the project helped
    establish the National Fund for Agricultural Research (FNRAA), a competitive funding
    mechanism for agricultural and agro-processing research programs (see figures in section 4.2).
    By separating the funding of research from its execution, FNRAA has increased transparency
    of resources allocation to research projects. These resources are accessible to a range of
    competences that goes beyond the traditional and dominant research institutes. FNRAA has
    forged partnership not only among research institutions but also with other private operators,
    such as agro-processors. Producers take part to the decision making process and are involved
    in the implementation of research programs in the field. PSAOP has also contributed to
    strengthen the scientific and managerial capacities and competitiveness of the two major
    agricultural research institutes (ISRA and ITA).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ National Agricultural Research Fund: this component is rated highly
satisfactory as it has fully achieved its objectives and indicators. It has also extensively
contributed to promote new approaches in the agricultural research sector. These are example of
the major achievements of FNRAA:

    - The competitive financing mechanism for agricultural research is accessible, beyond
    traditional research centers, to various institutions such as the University of Dakar (4 projects
    financed by FNRAA), SODEFITEX (2 projects), the Veterinarian University (1 project) or
    the Geomantic Laboratory (1 project).
    - A rigorous selection process has been set up: scientific quality is analyzed by peer reviewers
    and a scientific and technical committee (that includes international researchers), relevance is
    assessed by a multi-stakeholder management committee with a sound participation of
    producers.
    - Eligibility criteria have successfully promoted partnership among research institutions: all
    projects were required to involve a minimum of two institutions but more than 80 percent of
    approved projects had at least three partners.
    - POs' participation has been encouraged at all stages of the process to ensure relevance of
    research programs with producers' needs; applied-research and research/development
    proposals submitted to FNRAA were endorsed by a producer organizations.

The FNRAA is managed by a small Executive Secretariat, which comprises only 8 people (4
senior staff and 4 assistants) and which operating costs remains fairly limited at US$100,000 per
year including salaries and field monitoring and evaluation of activities (less than 10 percent of the
research fund managed by the secretariat).

Since its creation in 2000, FNRAA has received 92 proposals, which confirm the interest of the
mechanism, and has financed 30 programs for a total of CFAF 1.7 billion (US$3.4 million).
Details by call for proposals are presented in annex 1 ­ table 2. Based on the first results achieved
and as a confirmation of the relevance and efficiency of the FNRAA mechanism, other donors



                                                  - 7 -

expressed their interest in contributing to the fund: (i) AfDB financed research activities in the
livestock sector based on a call for proposal organized by FNRAA; (ii) the EU delegation
transferred food-security resources to FNRAA to organize a specific call for proposal targeting
local cereal development programs.

As part of the PSAOP second phase, FNRAA mandate and competences could be strengthened to
play a stronger role in the overall orientation and evaluation of research activities, beyond its
current financing mechanism role.

Components 2 and 3 ­ Research institute development: these components are rated
satisfactory. Thanks to project support, ISRA and ITA have improved their scientific,
administrative and financial performances. Both institutions are operating satisfactorily according
to management and organizational manuals. Research infrastructure have been rehabilitated and
scientific equipment have been acquired. As expected, ISRA and ITA successfully competed to
FNRAA and have been awarded 19 projects to coordinate for ISRA and 5 for ITA.

In details for ISRA, significant results are the followings:
    · ISRA scientific board has been opened to representatives of POs, local governments and
    private sector;
    · ISRA has been reorganized and consolidated in five regional research centers;
    · Thanks to the establishment of a technical and scientific programming commission, scientific
    methodologies, the definition of research objectives and activities have improved, as well as
    the allocation of human and financial resources;
    · Staff benefited from an extensive training program: full curriculum for 36 agents, specific
    modules for 116 and study tours for 6 researchers; a new research evaluation process for
    researchers' promotion has been adopted;
    · Scientific partnerships have been established at the national, regional and international levels
    (26 memorandums of agreement and 15 collaborative projects signed with a large range of
    partners from the private sector, the international research community and development
    projects and regional agencies);
    · Numerous publications have been disseminated, including technical pamphlets for producers,
    scientific articles in international research journals and the recently created ISRA bulletin;

For ITA, major results can be summarized as follows:
    · Scientific and technical performances have significantly improved thanks to training
    programs that benefited to almost 60 researchers; ITA is now recognized by private
    institutions as a key scientific resources for laboratory analyses and technology tests (16
    partnership agreements and 60 contracts signed since 2000); in addition, ITA researchers are
    sollicitated for organizing courses and practical workshops;
    · New strategic partnerships have been developed at the national and international level, with
    ANCAR, private firms, World Vision, UNIDO, FAO and other projects and programs;
    · 17 new technologies have been developed and demonstrated to users; 50 training modules
    benefiting almost 700 private entrepreneurs were organized to demonstrate innovative
    technologies in the field of post-harvest operations for fruit and vegetable, meat, milk, fish
    produce and cereals.


                                                   - 8 -

The PSAOP helped national research institutions improve significantly their scientific and
management performances. The second phase of PSAOP will support research institutions to
deepen and strengthen their competencies and methods to: (i) develop innovative mechanisms to
ensure technology dissemination to producers on a larger scale; (ii) carry out economic analysis,
beyond technical and agronomic results, to measure the potential and actual impact of
technologies and techniques at farm level on production and incomes.

Component 4 ­ Agricultural extension: this component is rated moderately satisfactory.
Major objectives have been satisfied with the creation of the National Agency for Agricultural and
Rural Counsel (ANCAR) in March 1997, following the dissolution of SODEVA, the relatively
ineffective para-governmental extension service agency operating mainly in the groundnuts
production area. Through ANCAR, the PSAOP has promoted a new approach of agricultural
extension activities, which are no more the top-down dissemination of technical messages but a
demand-driven support to producer needs. Senegalese agricultural services have moved out of the
traditional public extension services, based on the training and visit model, and have opened the
sector to private providers of advisory services. ANCAR has been fully operational since 2002
and has adopted a regionalized organization with more than three quarters of its 316 staff working
in the field. The state participation in ANCAR capital has been reduced from 51 to 42 percent.
Thus, as requested for the PSAOP second phase transition, the private sector becomes the
majority shareholder with producer organizations holding 38 percent and private agribusiness
enterprises 13 percent.

ANCAR operates through eleven regional divisions covering 144 rural communities where 105
Agricultural and Rural Advisor / Counselors (CAR) provide assistance to POs in the formulation
and implementation of extension activities under contractual arrangements. As of today, 2,817
contracts have been executed for a total cost of CFAF 365 million, including a producer
participation of CFAF 131 million (36 percent). Extension activities have benefited to more than
1,460 POs representing 24,000 farmers as direct beneficiaries and almost 54,000 people as
indirect beneficiaries.
CARs have adopted a more comprehensive approach to farm operations and farming systems.
CARs' extension programs cover a large range of issues and activities such as: agriculture (41
percent of contracts), horticulture (15 percent), facilitation (access to credit, input suppliers or
traders, 17 percent), training (8 percent), livestock production (6 percent), organizational and
management of POs (5 percent), forestry and environment (5 percent), communication and
information (1 percent), fishing (1 percent) and water and health (1 percent). They help farmers
get in touch with other public or private service providers that can resolve technical issues that are
beyond ANCAR core competences. As a result, ANCAR established 47 memorandum of
agreement with: NGOs, private firms, umbrella producer organizations and other agricultural and
rural development programs.

PSAOP has brought significant changes to agricultural extension in Senegal but ANCAR can still
make progresses in terms of governance, decentralization and accountability: (i) POs do
participate in ANCAR board but they are not always equally treated (late transmission of
documents or restricted access to information, decisions taken without board approval for staff



                                                - 9 -

recruitment for instance, etc.); (ii) three quarters of the staff are indeed operating at the regional
level but only one third (105 CARs) works in direct contact with producers on a daily basis;
recent recruitment gave priorities to administrative or supervision tasks to the detriment of direct
support to POs; (iii) during the second phase, regional divisions will be more autonomous for
taking initiatives and establishing independent contractual arrangements with other clients or
service providers; (iv) ANCAR accountability to POs will also be strengthened (CARs primarily
report to their respective regional division not to producers), thus the flow of financing should be
reversed to allow farmers to buy their services and become the real client of ANCAR.

As far as agronomic aspects are concerned, CARs have adopted a more comprehensive approach
to farming systems but extension activities and the monitoring of results remain to much focused
on technical aspects and should take more into account economic results for farmer production
and incomes. For some advisory services, technically specialized, and for farm economic
management advice, ANCAR does not have all the required skills and should not intervene in a
too large spectrum of technical competences. The second phase will thus go further in promoting
the establishment of specialized private providers.

Component 5 ­ Producer organizations: the PO component deserves a highly satisfactory
rating as all objectives have been achieved and some of them have been surpassed. The financing
mechanism specifically dedicated to POs (FSRRD - Demand Driven Rural Services Funds) has
been successfully implemented by the private association ASPRODEB. At the local level, 152
CLCOPs have been set up (as compared to the initial objective of 142). They cover 67 percent of
the rural communities, group 63 percent of POs inventoried in these areas and represent almost
50,000 producers. Up to date, the FSRRD has financed 1,235 projects (against an initial objective
of 852) for a total amount of CFAF 885 million. In the 11 regions, CRCRs have been created for
regional POs to access the FSRRD and 49 projects have been financed for a total amount of
CFAF 104 million. All these projects benefited almost 62,000 producers and were comprised of
training sessions and study tours (52 percent), as well as of innovation and demonstration
activities (38 percent). Project topics covered mainly agricultural production (77 percent),
post-harvest operations (11 percent) and organization and management of POs (6 percent).
According to a beneficiary assessment undertaken in 2004, more than 80 percent of POs'
individual members were satisfied by services delivered and activities undertaken by their
organizations under the FSSRD financing mechanism. POs contributed to project costs for 10 to
50 percent depending on the nature of the project. To the exception of a very limited number of
projects (less than 5 percent), this beneficiary contribution was recovered without any difficulty
confirming the interest of the approach for producer organizations and their members.

Beyond FSRRD and the funding of micro-projects for POs, CLCOPs have been instrumental to
organize consultation with grassroots organizations and to disseminate information to producers.
As such, CLCOPs are now recognized by many programs, public services and local governments
as their entry point to dialogue and collaborate with producers and their organizations. For
instance, ANCAR's extension programs are presented and discussed with farmers in the
framework of CLCOPs. Several local governments are already collaborating with CLCOPs as a
way to consult with producers or to financially contribute to PO capacity-building.




                                                 - 10 -

When participating in policy dialogue, for the formulation of the LOASP for instance, the national
umbrella producer organization, CNCR, relied on CLCOPs and CRCRs to get feedback and
views from as many farmers as possible. Thanks to PSAOP support, CNCR has been able to
organize effective and regular communication campaigns and consultation with grassroots
producers and local organizations. By regularly consulting and informing its grassroots members,
CNCR has thus gained substantial credibility, as a legitimate farmer representative association, has
increased its bargaining power. Its contribution to the formulation of the new agricultural
framework law was substantial. POs' participation in the elaboration and implementation of
extension and research programs is now generalized all over the country and highly appreciated.
Senegalese experience is now cited as an example of producer empowerment in the sub-region.

Components 6 and 7 ­ Strengthening Public Services: these components are rated
satisfactory for the following achievements:
· the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock disengaged from productive and
marketing activities; they have been refocused on their core public functions of policy
formulation, monitoring and evaluation, with the creation of specific divisions for policy analysis,
forecasts and statistics;
· the de-concentration of services is effective with the creation of Rural Development Regional
Directorates, which focus on field activity monitoring, statistical data collection, control and
regulation, elaboration of regional and departmental agricultural policies;
· for the Ministry of Livestock, Veterinary Regional Inspections are responsible of designing,
controlling and monitoring actions related to herd protection against economically significant
diseases, public health and trade protection on domestic, regional and international markets;
· as demonstrated by the recent elaboration of the new framework law for agriculture (LOASP),
agriculture public services are less reluctant and more active in collaborating and consulting
producer organizations.

Both Ministries benefited from PSAOP financial resources for office and logistic equipment, for
building rehabilitations and for capacity building activities. Studies for the construction of a
one-site ministry have been completed but execution has been postponed to PSAOP second
phase.

Despite strong changes brought by PSAOP and favorable evolutions in civil servants' mindset,
public services remain weak due to a rapid turnover of staff and the lack of financial and logistic
means. De-concentration is well advanced but the linkages between central and regional levels still
need to be strengthened. During the first phase, the two Ministries were not sufficiently active in
taking the lead to ensure the overall orientation, coordination and monitoring of the PSAOP
various components. They actively managed to integrate PSAOP approaches in the LOASP
content, but they partially failed to implement Presidential special programs along the line of the
PSAOP approach. The second phase will help the two Ministries get reforms operationally
converted in concrete field interventions and get public services' mandates and missions translated
into day-to-day activities for field staff.




                                                - 11 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic and financial appraisal of the program was done during project preparation based
on a benefit and cost analysis per standard type of farm and herd. As outlined in the PAD, the first
phase has been primarily focusing on institutional changes and on setting-up reforms of rural and
agricultural services. It is therefore too early to be able to measure significant economic impact of
PSAOP both at the macro and micro-economic levels but it has already been agreed with PSAOP
actors that the second phase will pay particular attention to economic impact analyses.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable for the first phase for the reason stated in section 4.3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the first phase has been substantial on all institutions
thanks to PSAOP support in terms of reorganization, mission redefinition and capacity building
activities, but also thanks to office rehabilitation and equipment. Beyond logistical inputs that have
improved work conditions, PSAOP soft investments have contributed to re-define the role and
responsibilities of the different stakeholders.

As a result, three major impacts should be highlighted:

1- Producer empowerment both at the local level and at the national level: Producer
organizations have been able to increase their participation in decision-making processes and take
part to projects/programs implementation. They now contribute to the definition, implementation
and evaluation of research and extension programs. In the framework of FSRRD and CLOPs,
POs have learned to formulate and implement by themselves small-scale capacity building
projects. Compared to other countries, Senegalese POs do not just participate in discussion as
alibi for development partners to consult with poor producers but they do really contribute to
policy formulation as a real and sound proposing force. As mentioned earlier, CNCR's
contribution to the LOASP's formulation has been substantial, pushing the Government to switch
approaches on some issues or even withdraw some proposals not accepted by producers. In the
FNRAA board, they contributed to the complete reformulation of research programs. At the local
level, CLCOPs are increasingly invited by local governments to contribute to the formulation of
local development plans.

2- Demand-driven approach: Institutional changes brought by PSAOP have strongly
contributed to make the delivery of agricultural services evolve from a "top-down" and
centralized approach to a more demand-driven and regionalized approach. Accountability to
producers as clients is another important step forward that public services are in the process of
adopting. Many multi-stakeholders workshops were organized to plan activities upfront with
producers and to evaluate and draw lessons downstream with them. Some initiatives led by
CNCR, such as an experimental project focusing on peanut quality control, and to a lesser extend
the ANCAR activities, have also introduced the idea of private delivery of services.

3- Partnership: the different financing mechanisms set up during the first phase have instilled the
habit of regular consultations among stakeholders, beyond the allocation of financial resources. In
that way, the PSAOP has contributed to promote public-private partnership, especially between



                                                   - 12 -

policy makers and producer representatives. This aspect appears also in the field in the framework
of CLCOPs as a way to coordinate activities and to seek synergies among interventions under the
leadership of producers.

On social aspects, although it was the first phase objective, project contribution to poverty
reduction is rated modest. The project is on track towards the overall development objectives and
it made tangible contributions to improve smallholders access to agricultural advisory services
through CLCOPs, ANCAR and research. The project approach in particular has strongly
contributed to advocate for effective smallholders participation in decision-making processes at all
level. At the national level, through their network of CLCOPs and CRCRs, POs make the voice of
the poor heard in the policy dialogue. The Senegalese experience is regularly cited in neighboring
countries as the best practice in terms of consultation with smallholders and of dissemination of
information to grassroots organizations.

On the gender dimension, the project contribution has been substantial thanks mainly to the
producer organizations component. At the grassroots levels, and to a lesser extend at the national
level, women and female organizations have been able to increase their participation to
decision-making processes regarding research and extension needs, capacity building program
elaboration and implementation. Field surveys undertaken by research institutes have shown that,
on average in a given village, 70 percent of female producers are members of a producer
organization, against 53 percent for male. It is mandatory for CLCOPs and CRCRs to have
female PO representatives in their executive board. In the 152 rural communities that benefitted
from the PO component, 20 percent of CLCOPs have a female president. At the national level,
through its support to CNCR, the project supported the development of the national federation
for the promotion of female POs (institutional diagnostic, action plan elaboration and
implementation, and capacity building). Created in 1987, this federation covers all the regions
and rural communities, and provides support to its grassroots members (6.815 associations
representing an estimate of 1,056,000 women) to ensure a sound participation of women in
CLCOPs and CRCRs.

However, further efforts are still required to sustain these achievements and to maintain the first
phase momentum of institutional changes, of agricultural services reorganization and of producer
empowerment. Research institutions and agricultural advisory services would increase further
more their accountability to producers if financial flows were reversed, meaning that producers
really buy their services. As far as public services are concerned, the two sector Ministries needs
to consolidate their new mandates by taking a more active part, at the central level, in ensuring the
overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the agricultural sector. At the regional level,
regional directorates will translate their new missions in day-to-day activities for field agents.

The project contribution to good environmental management is modest as the first phase mainly
focused on institutional reforms and capacity building aspects. Micro-projects carried out by POs
did not benefitted from any environmental impact assessment before implementation and were not
monitored regarding pest management issues or any other safeguard issues during execution. But
most of this projects were capacity building activities with no direct implication on the
environment and the small number of productive projects were conducted as demonstration on



                                                - 13 -

very small scale. As the second phase will invest more in productive projects, its design must pay
particular attention to environmental management capacities within public services in charge of
the safeguards enforcement and within producer organizations. The GoS has already prepared an
environmental and social management framework consistent with Bank policies. Project activities
will contribute to strengthen ANCAR capacities in assisting ASPRODEB, POs and producers to
respect this framework. The CLCOPs and CRCRs network set up during the first phase will be
valuable tools for organizing information and awareness raising campaigns and reaching a large
number of grassroots producers.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No major external factors affected project implementation. It should be only noted that the slow
depreciation of the SDR against the CFA Franc reduced the budget available in local currency. As
a result, some activities were reduced or postponed to the second phase (such as the construction
of the new headquarters for the sector Ministries).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Following the 2000 election and the political shift that occurred, project implementation slowed
down for nearly one year. The new Ministers and high ranked managers were at first skeptical
with regards to the PSAOP approach and somewhat reluctant to responsibilities given to POs.
However, based on the promising results achieved by the PO component under the first pilot
CLCOPs and by the research component with the setting up of FNRAA, the PSAOP
implementing agencies gained Government's adhesion to the project.

The project also suffered from perturbations caused by the different Presidential annual initiatives,
which aimed at promoting some specific crops such as cassava or maize and were implemented in
partial or complete disconnection of existing programs such as PSAOP. As a consequence,
contradictions in implementation strategies and approaches occurred in the field (free distribution
of inputs or seeds for instance). Human resources of ANCAR were mobilized to support these
initiatives to the detriment of their existing programs agreed upon with CLCOPs.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project may have lacked some coordination efforts to seek complementarities between
components and to increase synergies between interventions. At the local level in the field and on
specific actions, project promoters did ensure coordination, in the framework of CLCOPs for
instance or between research programs and agricultural advisory services. At the national level,
the two sector Ministries could have been more active in leading the overall coordination of the
program to increase the scale and the impact of some interventions. Coordination with other
national programs funded or not by the Bank could have been stronger.

Again the two sector Ministries could have been more pro-active in channeling the additional
financial resources made available by these Presidential initiatives toward PSAOP decision-making
mechanisms and implementation modalities. In that sense, they could have further tested and
promoted the different institutional innovative arrangements and financial mechanisms set up
under PSAOP.




                                                     - 14 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original total budget was estimated at US$47.1 million with a US$6 million contribution from
IFAD that was cancelled before project effectiveness. A new coming manager at IFAD
headquarter, who did not participate in project preparation, was not confortable with the
proposed innovative approach of PSAOP and decided to withdraw IFAD contribution. This
budget reduction resulted in the cancellation of civil works but did not change the overall
approach and objectives of the project. Thanks to budget reallocation, soft investments
(institutional reforms, capacity building and producer empowerment) were not affected by IFAD
withdrawal. The IDA contribution was appraised at US$27.4 million but reached US$29.1 million
at project closure due to SDR fluctuation. The project closed at a disbursed rate of 99.4 percent.
A small fiduciary unit was set up within the Ministry of Economy and Finance to specifically
coordinate PSAOP financial management and procurement. This unit staffed with two specialists
had operated all along project implementation to the satisfaction of the different components and
with respect to Bank procedures.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project achievements is rated likely. As mentioned above, the PSAOP
approach has been validated and thus consolidated thanks to the new agricultural framework law
(LOASP). In that sense, the LOASP institutionalize the reforms and the strategies promoted
under the project. It provides institutional sustainability to the reforms undertaken during the first
phase and sets the framework for their financial sustainability. The new approach to agricultural
services promoted by PSAOP becomes mandatory, especially for supporting producers. As such,
agricultural extension is now conceived and promoted as an advisory service, as opposed to the
former top-down technology transfer under the training and visit approach. The new legal
framework promotes diversity and plurality as regards to service providers, encouraging private
and non-governmental firms to play a more active role under the leadership of POs and
commercial actors.

The LOASP also recognizes the core role of producer organizations as key stakeholders for the
definition of rural and agriculture policies, as well as for the elaboration and implementation of
projects and programs. Overall, the empowerment of producers thanks to PSAOP support and the
appropriation of reforms by POs, especially the national umbrella CNCR, will prevent any push
back of reforms and ensure the long-term sustainability of demand-driven approaches.

However, sustainable financing resources for agriculture services remain the key issue for the
future. To partially solve this concern, the LOASP has inscribed the creation of a national fund for
agricultural development (Fonds National de Développement Agro-Sylvo-Pastoral ­ FNDASP).
But, beyond state budget transfer, no specific financing mechanism has yet been set up such as
levys or taxes along supply chains. This aspect will be a priority area of discussion for the CNCR
and Government officials during the next PSAOP phase. At this stage, it is encouraging to see
that POs have contributed for 36 percent to the cost of extension programs elaborated and
executed jointly with ANCAR. As mentioned above, they also co-financed for 10 to 50 percent
capacity building activities supported by FSRRD.




                                                 - 15 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is transitioning to the second phase of the three-phase APL thanks to PHRD grants
and PPF. The provisioning of CFAF 500 million has already been made in the 2006 budget to
launch the FNDASP and ensure a regular financing of agricultural services. During the transition
period, further evaluations and studies will be undertaken to refine activities that will be carried
over to the second phase. The expansion of the CLCOPs network all over the 320 rural
communities will be prepared by CNCR and its implementing agency. ISRA and ITA on-going
and regular activities will be continued thanks to budget support received from the Government
and other programs funded by other donors or private clients. On its GoS' contribution, ANCAR
will maintain a minimum of field activities with POs and will take this opportunity to refine its
strategic business plan for the future in close collaboration with POs. FNRAA only will have to
wait for the second phase or the effective launching of FNDASP to get funding and to be able to
organize further selections of research programs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank preparation team is rated satisfactory. Bank staff provided in-depth
support to the preparation team and was very open to discussion. The team really wanted to
introduce innovations and to promote strong institutional changes in the organization and working
habits of Senegalese agricultural services. It should be commended for having offered large
responsibility to producer organizations and for having resisted Bank internal pressure urging it to
speed up the preparation process or to drop the concept. The project elaboration took almost
three years but that maturation time was really required for the team to get national agreement on
the proposed reforms and to introduce in-depth institutional changes. All along project
preparation and implementation, the Bank team adequately managed to get additional and external
fundings from bilateral trust funds to undertake further analyses and to provide outside evaluation
for the benefit both of Senegalese stakeholders and Bank knowledge.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions provided an
adequate skill mix of expertise. Bank guidance and recommendations were relevant to
implementing agencies' expectations. For such a large and complex project, Bank budget was not
sufficient to carry on more than one supervision mission per year. However, the project
implementing agencies benefited from close and sound support from field-based Bank staff who
were very knowledgeable about local agriculture services and institutions. They were very
involved in project implementation and provided "day-to-day" advice to activities. The Bank team
responsible of the PSAOP remained stable, with a low turnover of task team leaders. The first
TTL was replaced by another member of the team who had been involved from the beginning of
the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above comments, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.




                                                  - 16 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government and
the key institutions, especially CNCR, showed interest in reforming agricultural services and great
openness to the new approaches proposed by the Bank team. The Government's acceptance to
get producer organizations fully associated to the preparation of a Bank funded project was also
exemplary in the sub-region. Although considerable discussions were required on content,
institutional arrangements and implementation modalities, the project was slowly but collectively
designed, resulting in a sound general agreement around project concept and content.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
As mentioned earlier, the Government performances have been impaired by the political
transition, the weak coordination capacities of the two sector Ministries and by the lack of
pro-activity in managing adequately the Presidential agricultural initiatives in coherence with the
PSAOP approach. However, the proposed reforms with strong implication on staff deployment
and work program have been successfully implemented. The Government performances are thus
rated moderately satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
To the exception of ANCAR, the implementing agencies (FNRAA executive secretariat and
ASPRODEB) have achieved and surpassed all their major objectives. They have been very
dynamic, competent and effective in undertaking their respective tasks. Beyond fulfilling their
assignment, they have shown strong commitment to national discussion and to animating
discussion around their activities and results. Their performances are thus rated highly
satisfactory.

ANCAR performances lead to a much more mixed assessment: (i) its field objectives have been
fulfilled and appreciated by POs, but the total coverage of the initial objective of 142 rural was
delayed and occurred only towards the end of the project; (ii) ANCAR governance still has to be
improved based on a stronger implication of producers (as members of ANCAR's board) in
decision-making processes and in the management of activities. As such, ANCAR performance is
rated moderately unsatisfactory.

In addition, it should be noted that the project did not suffer from any misprocurement (to the
exception of one bid that had to be relaunched) and audits from 200 to 2004 for all implementing
agencies were unqualified (2005 audit reports are due for June 30, 2006 but no issues are
foreseen).

Overall, implementing agencies' performances are rated satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above comments, the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.




                                              - 17 -

8. Lessons Learned

1-      Institutional changes take time and require adequate support: reforming public
institutions, while building private providers and empowering producers organizations to take
over functions, requires time. From project identification to the end of the first phase, nearly ten
years have past, while three years were necessary to get the project presented to the Bank Board
and one more year to really jump-start activities. However, all these years were not useless or
inactive years but, on the contrary, they were critical to prepare the ground for changes with
capacity building activities and communication programs to help key stakeholders understand the
interest of reforms and apprehend their new roles. APL is the right financial instrument but the
first phase should designed for at least four or five years. In addition, as demonstrated by other
projects, institutional changes cannot occurred by itself. This a complex process involving various
stakeholders who may oppose resistance to change and evolution. Adequate support must be
provided in terms of technical assistance, institutional reinforcement and capacity-building.
Financial resources must be available to accompany the transition. The design of M&E indicators
is another crucial aspect: as discussed in the quality at entry section, indicators should be well
defined, limited in number and focused on specific issues. They should be easy to monitor and
useful for beneficiary institutions to measure progress towards project objectives. In that sense,
triggers for the next phase should go beyond basic performance indicators, and not just duplicate
them, by setting clear targets to be achieved by project actors. All these aspects should be taken
into account in the design of PSAOP-type projects.

2-      Producer organizations are key drivers to foster changes and ensure sustainability:
compared to other countries (such as Mali and the cotton sector reform), the Senegalese
experience demonstrates that institutional reforms and the development of new relationships
(clients / service providers) can be really pushed forward if producers are empowered. This means
that POs require not only financial resources but also technical support either internalized in the
organization or contractualized with a private firm. Thanks to its internal staff and its
implementing agency ASPRODEB, CNCR has been able                  to develop capacities to become
proactive and able to ask for services, as well as to participate in policy formulation.
Demand-driven services become efficient and accountable only thanks to producer empowerment
to build the demand side and get the voice of farmers heard. Producer participation in all stages of
the project cycle is thus one of the key lessons that explain why the project worked well and
achieved its objectives. More specifically, the critical aspect was the participation and active
contribution of CNCR to project preparation from the very beginning of the process. Producers
were able to give their pragmatic views on project design, institutional arrangements and
implementation modalities. As a result, they were fully on board when the project became
effective and they were able, without any objection from other partners, to take part in
decision-making and evaluation of research and extension activities. This has also induced a new
reflex from public institutions to consult with producers for specific issues and more generally on
a regular basis (even if ANCAR management still has to improve in that field).

3-      Multi-stakeholder financing mechanisms: the FNRAA, ANCAR and CLCOP
experiences in the framework of PSAOP implementation show that multi-stakeholders
decision-making mechanisms are efficient for allocating funds to activities that are relevant and



                                                - 18 -

coherent with producer needs and interests. These mechanisms foster dialogue, partnership and
collaboration among institutions and ensure stronger coordination in the field. But, as mentioned
above, participation of producers through their organizations is critical to design interventions
relevant to farmer real needs and consistent with what has already been implemented by other
partners. As such, FNRAA mechanism is exemplary and very innovative as it has really changed
the way research institutions had worked previously. Funding of research programs was
traditionally based on an annual allocation and there was very little control over research activities
carried out. Nowadays in Senegal, funding of research is separated from its execution: researchers
have to compete with solid research proposals, on both scientific soundness and development
relevance, and they are accountable to producers on spending and results (but bulk fundings are
still provided to maintain research institutes' scientific capacities with training and up-to-date
equipment).

4-      Implementing agency vs. PIU: the PSAOP experience has demonstrated that asking
local institutions, such as FNRAA secretariat, ANCAR and CNCR, to be fully responsible of their
respective component as implementing agencies can be more efficient than having a temporary
PIU (that generally takes the lead over local institutions as seen in other agricultural services
projects in the region). Learning by doing is obviously the best way to improve institutional
capacities and to ensure sustainability of actions beyond project completion. However, without a
PIU, coordination of interventions undertaken by several implementing agencies remain complex.
In that sense, public services should be responsible for ensuring coordination among components
as part of their function of sector coordination. Arrangements will be made in that direction for
the second phase in the framework or under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture.

5-      Economic impact: (i) as already demonstrated by other projects, to get economic results
and measurable impacts, demand-driven funds should not be restricted to soft investments but
should allow for physical investments and equipment. These funds should give the opportunity to
promote innovations, disseminate technologies and demonstrate techniques in rural areas that
have been proved to be generating additional incomes at the farm level. (ii) in addition, M&E
system should work beyond monitoring project activities and measuring technical results. M&E
indicators have to provide guidance to project implementers for achieving economic results.
Especially for researchers and technical advisor (CARs for instance), indicators should be
incentives to go beyond measuring technical outputs by undertaking economic analysis at farm
level and by developing economic references of technologies/innovations.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

As described in more detail in the Borrower's implementation completion report in Annex 8, the
Borrower shares the analysis presented in the Bank implementation completion report. It
acknowledges the innovative features of the PSAOP approach as: (i) the project represented a
real rupture with previous research and extension programs that did not take into account farmer
needs and were not accountable to them; (ii) it aimed at promoting producer organizations to
participate in policy formulation, in the design, execution and evaluation of research and extension
activities, in the elaboration and implementation of capacity building projects for POs by



                                                - 19 -

themselves; (iii) it promoted a broader approach to extension as agricultural advisory services and
introduced competitive grant mechanism for research; (iv) it fostered deconcentration and
decentralization of public services.

Beyond concrete results detailed in its report, the Borrower emphasizes the key following impacts
on institutions: (i) through their own financing mechanisms (CLCOPs and CRCRs), POs have
been instrumental in guiding and ensuring consistency among project intervention; they have
gained credibility by participating actively in the formulation of the new agricultural law and by
improving their internal organization and efficiency; (ii) thanks to project support and to the new
financing mechanism (FNRAA), national research institutes have improved their scientific
capacities and management efficiency, while strengthening collaboration and partnership with
other research institutions and universities within the country and at the regional level; (iii) the
creation of ANCAR was essential to reverse the past top-down approach of extension in Senegal
and to develop more demand-driven advisory services that are accountable to producers; (iv)
within the two sector Ministries (agriculture and livestock), reforms and new approaches to rural
development are well adopted and confirmed under the new agricultural law; regional public
services are in a better position to ensure coordination of interventions at the local and regional
levels.

One of the key lessons for the Borrower is the participative approach adopted at the very
beginning of project preparation that contributed to forge consensual views on reforms and
institutional changes required to improve agricultural services, as well as on supporting measures
needed to facilitate reform adoption. Recommendations for the second phase include the need
fora stronger coordination efforts under the leadership of the two sector Ministries, as well as the
need to better communicate on project activities, results and achievements. Thanks to phase 1, all
agricultural institutions have greatly improved their technical and managerial competencies but
each of them will take the opportunity of the second phase to make further progresses on
transparency, governance and accountability.

(b) Cofinanciers:

IFAD was the only co-financier but withdrew its contribution as the project approach was judged too
much innovative and risky by a new coming manager at IFAD headquarter. However, based on the
positive assessment of the first phase results, IFAD has revised its opinion towards PSAOP approach, with
a particular appreciation for the role and responsibility given to producers and their organizations. IFAD
participated in the elaboration of the second phase and will co-finance it for US$ 6 million in addition to the
IDA contribution of US$ 20 million.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

The Borrower implementation completion report is presented in annex 8.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table 1 ­ Key Performance Indicators for Phase I (as defined in the PAD)

Component 1 ­ National Agricultural Research Funding:
Establish an effective national agriculture and agro-processing research system
· NARF is a legal entity governed by private law        The financing mechanism is established under
with terms of reference satisfactory for the           the name of NARF.
Association.                                            It is an association of "public interest",
                                                       governed by private status and rules.
· NARF functions satisfactorily according to            NARF functioning is governed by a manual of
agreed upon policies and procedures, certified by      procedures.
an independent management audit.                        Between 2000 and 2004, all independent audits
                                                       were fully satisfactory (the 2005 report has not been yet
                                                       released, but no issue foreseen for the last year of project
                                                       execution).
· Two other donors contribute to NARF, for a            AfDB and EU have financed research projects
minimum of 10%.                                        under NARF system.

Components 2 & 3 ­ Research Institutes Development:
Improve ISRA and ITA efficiency
· ISRA and ITA are operating satisfactorily             ISRA and ITA are operating satisfactorily.
according to their various management and
organizational manuals.
· Financial management and accounting systems           All independent audits were satisfactory without
are functioning adequately as reflected in the         any major qualifications.
annual audit reports, which are unqualified, except
for minor qualifications.
· At least 15 ISRA projects and 5 ITA projects          NARF financed 19 projects under ISRA's
have been approved by NARF. Four of these are          leadership and 5 under ITA's responsibility.
joint ventures.

Component 4 ­ Agricultural Extension:
Establish extension services accountable to producers and responsive to their needs through
contractual arrangements
· The government holds a maximum of 49% of              Government's participation to ANCAR's share has
ANCAR's share.                                         been reduced to 42%
· ANCAR successfully established a decentralized  The ANCAR is represented in the 11 regions and its
extension service, with contractual arrangements       network of rural and agricultural advisors cover 142
with producer organizations, over at least 142 rural rural communities.
communes.
· Producer organizations contribute to ANCAR's          POs contribute for 36% in average to the costs of
operating costs (including salaries), either directly  ANCAR activities.
or through contractual arrangements at the local
level.


                                                     - 21 -

· An evaluation of staff performance has been          An assessment of ANCAR staff was done in 2005
carried out after a two-year probation period and     but implementation of recommendations is pending.
for each staff, a decision has been made (contract
renewal or redeployment to the civil service).
· All ANCAR staff is contractual.                      All ANCAR staff is contractual.
· ANCAR operates according to satisfactory             ANCAR's audit were satisfactory without reserves.
policies and procedures, in particular as far as the
financial management and accounting system is
concerned, as reflected in the audit reports.

Component 5 ­ Support to Producer Organizations:
Improve producer organizations' ability to provide services to their members to access inputs,
credit and marketing and to make their voice heard in the decision making processes
· Satisfactory functioning of the Demand-Driven        The FSRRD is operating in 152 rural
Rural Services Fund, with at least 142 local and      communities and in all the 11 regions; at least, 5
10 regional committees effectively functioning and    projects have been financed by each CLCOP.
5 subprojects approved per committee.
· The National Rural People Council for                CNCR covers its operating costs thanks to
Consultation and Cooperation (CNCR) contributes       internal financial resources; PSAOP contribution
to the funding of its own operating costs (excluding  to CNCR activities has decreased from 36% in
its public service functions) out of its own          September 2003 to less than 25% in October
resources.                                            2005.
· POs provide at least 75% of the services             The FSSRD has financed 1,284 projects (1,235
requested by their members.                           through CLCOPs and 49 through CRCRs).
                                                       more than 80% of producers are satisfied with
                                                      services offered by POs under FSSRD (beneficiary
                                                      assessment - March 2004)
· All POs requests for technology are taken into       POs needs for technology generation and
account either in research proposals or extension     transfer are taken into account thanks to their
programs.                                             participation to FNRAA and ANCAR boards.

Component 6 & 7 ­ Support key Ministries functions:
Focus the Ministries' services on their regulatory, policy- making and monitoring functions and
strengthen their capabilities in these domains
· The agreed upon redeployment of personnel is         Staff has been redeployed according to the
completed, including for the personnel currently      agreed plan.
seconded to projects and to the Sociétés
Régionales de Développement Rural (SRDR)
· The extension mandate of the SRDRs and               An external evaluation of ANCAR activities
ANCAR has been redefined on the basis of an           has been carried out with satisfactory conclusions
external evaluation including the cost-efficiency of  on ANCAR mandate; recommendations will be
each structure, beneficiary satisfaction and          implemented during the PSAOP second phase


                                                    - 22 -

relevance of extension services in order to decide   based on an on-going complementary beneficiary
on the institutional modalities for carrying out     assessment undertaken under CNCR leadership.
extension services.
· The Ministries focus only on their regulatory,      Mandates of sector Ministries, for central
policy-making and monitoring functions.              services and regional directorates, were revised
                                                     and are under implementation. Further
                                                     improvement or clarification will be prepared for
                                                     the PSAOP second phase based on the on-going
                                                     public expenditure review (to be completed in
                                                     March 2005).


Table 2 ­ Achievement of triggers for the second phase


 Component                Triggers achieved

NARF                     NARF is a private association of public interest, whose funds are supplied
                         by GoS, IDA resources and two other donors. Its management is certified
                         without reserves by external audits.

Research institutes ISRA and ITA organizational and scientific capacities have been improved
                         and their financial management is certified without reserves by external
                         audits. They have accessed competitive funding through NARF for joint
                         research programs.

Extension                ANACR is a public agency, with a minority share of the State,
                         decentralized in 142 rural communities (out of 320). Staff is contractual
                         and its performances have been evaluated. Producers participate in the
                         formulation and financing of extension activities.

POs                      FSSRD finances services requested by POs in 142 local and 10 regional
                         committees. The national umbrella PO (CNCR) is financially autonomous.
                         POs get actively involved in the formulation and execution of research and
                         extension programs.

Public services          Public services mandates focus on core public functions and staff have been
                         redeployed accordingly, with priority to decentralized services. Respective
                         mandates of SAED, SODEFITEX and ANCAR for delivering extension
                         services have been clarified.




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                                Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million       US$ million
Restructuring the Ministry of Agriculture                           3.29              3.61             42
Ministry of Livestock                                               2.81              2.67             48
Strengthening the Dir. Dette et Investissement                      0.52              0.79            115
Institut de Technology Alimentaire (ITA)                            0.89              1.20             57
Strengthening Institut Sénégalais de Recherche Agricole             3.17              3.42             58
National Agricultural Research                                      3.66              3.21             78
Agricultural Extension                                              7.53              7.13             71
Producer Organizations                                              3.55              5.65            124
PPF Financing                                                       2.00

Total Baseline Cost                                               27.42              27.68
  Physical Contingencies                                            1.77
  Price Contingencies                                               1.87
                          Total Project Costs                     31.06              27.68
                   Total Financing Required                       31.06              27.68
Disbursed data has been provided by the Fiduciary Coordination Unit on January 24, 2006 and information
is based on expenses already paid or reimbursed by LOAG but also expenses not yet submitted to LOAG
for review. Once grace of period expired (Avril 30, 2006) actual data should be more reliable.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                   2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                             2.18             3.22             0.00             0.00        5.40
                                    (0.92)           (1.36)            (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.28)
2. Goods                            10.50             0.57             1.03             0.03        12.13
                                    (5.06)           (0.30)            (0.50)          (0.00)      (5.86)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00             14.83            0.00        14.83
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)           (11.91)          (0.00)     (11.91)
4. Operating Cost                    0.00             0.00             8.82             5.91        14.73
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)            (7.35)          (0.00)      (7.35)
    Total                           12.68             3.79             24.68            5.94        47.09
                                    (5.98)           (1.66)           (19.76)          (0.00)     (27.40)




                                                  - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.69             0.00              0.69
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.73)            (0.00)           (0.73)
   2. Goods                                5.05               0.03              0.16             0.00              5.24
                                          (4.53)             (0.00)            (0.18)            (0.00)           (4.71)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.85             0.00              1.85
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.71)            (0.00)           (1.71)
   4. Operating Cost                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               5.05               0.03              2.70             0.00              7.78
                                          (4.53)             (0.00)            (2.62)            (0.00)           (7.16)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Restructuring the Ministry     3.29         5.01         1.02        3.61                               109.7     0.0       0.0
of Agriculture
Ministry of Livestock          2.81         2.46         0.75        2.67                               95.0      0.0       0.0
Strengthening of the DDI       0.52         0.07         0.13        0.79                               151.9     0.0       0.0
Strengthening the              4.06         3.35         1.24        3.42                               84.2      0.0       0.0
Agricultural Research
National Fund for              3.66         0.10         0.75        3.21                               87.7      0.0       0.0
Agricultural Research
Agricultural Extension         7.53         2.10         1.27        7.13                               94.7      0.0       0.0
Producer's Organizations       3.55         0.25         0.89        5.65                               159.2     0.0       0.0
Refinancing of the PPF         2.00                                                                      0.0
Total                         27.42        13.34         6.02       27.68                               100.9     0.0       0.0




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic and financial analysis was done during project preparation for the overall program.
It was subdivided in a farm-level financial analysis, based on a benefit and cost analysis per
standard type of farm and herd, and a project-level economic analysis, based on adoption rates of
technologies by standard individual farms and herds taking into account specificity of natural
regions in Senegal. For the base case, the appraisal calculated an internal rate of return for the
whole program of 19 percent with a net present value of 12 billion CFAF. Implementation of the
proposed methodology based on farm models was difficult during the first phase and never put in
practice by the project. Interventions were determined with POs during the course of project
implementation and producer requests focused mainly on capacity building activities that do not
have an immediate economic impact on the ground. The method will be revised to take more into
account the demand-driven nature of the project. On the other hand, as outlined in the PAD, the
first phase has been primarily focusing on institutional changes and on setting-up reforms of rural
and agricultural services. It is therefore too early to be able to measure significant economic
impact of the PSAOP both at the macro and micro-economic levels.

In addition, an impact analysis of recurrent project costs on public finances was carried out. It
concluded that the recurrent costs generated by PSAOP constituted an acceptable burden on
public finances and well within the Government of Senegal's financial means. This aspect has not
been monitored during project implementation because the recurrent cost estimation declined to
less than 5 percent of the public expenditures for the primary sector in the year 2010 and was
judged reasonable and justified compared to the importance of agricultural research, extension
and PO empowerment.




                                               - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation



              06/07/1995                2    AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
                                             FIN. MGMT SPECIALIST (1)
              07/31/1995                3    AG SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (3)
              11/24/1995                4    AG SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (2)
                                             RESEARCH-DEVELOPM (1)
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (1)
              01/23/1996              11     AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (3)
                                             FIN. MGMT SPECIALIST (1)
                                             RESEARCH INFRASTRUC (1)
                                             PRODUCERS ORGANIZAT (1)
                                             RESEARCH-DEVELOPMENT
                                             (1)
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (1)
                                             AG. POLICY (1)
                                             INSTITU. DEV (1)
                                             AG SERVICES (1)
              04/15/1996                1    GENDER SPECIALIST (1)
              05/07/1996                3    AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (2)
                                             PRODUCERS ORGANIZAT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/15/1998              11     RESEARCH SPECIALIST
                                             (2), OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1), SECTOR
                                             MANAGER, AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1), AG.
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (1), MINISTRY
                                             RESTRUCTURING
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             PRODUCERS ORG.
                                             SPECIALIST (1), PROJECT
                                             ANALYST (1),
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST
                                             (1), FMS (1), PROJECT
                                             CONTROLLER (1)


 Supervision



                                              - 27 -

09/10/1999    2  AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST        S    S
                 (2)
02/01/2000    6  AG. SERVICES & RESEARCH        S    S
                 (1); MIN. RESTRUCTURING
                 (1); LIVESTOCK (1);
                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                 (1); PRODUCER
                 ORGANIZATIONS (1); AG.
                 SERVICES (1)
06/05/2000    11 AG. SERVICES SPECIALIST        S    S
                 (2); PRODUCERS
                 ORGANIZATION (1);
                 RESTRUCTURATION MINIST
                 (1); AGR. EXTENSION (1);
                 LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (1);
                 RESEARCH (1); FMS (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); ASSISTANT (1); M&E
                 SPECIALIST, CONSUL (1)
10/09/2000    9  AG.SERVICES, RES,CO-TT         S    S
                 (1); MINISTRY
                 REORGANIZATION (1);
                 CONSULT. M&E (1);
                 LIVESTOCK SERVICES (1);
                 EXTENSION SERVICES (1);
                 FMS (1); RESEARCH, SPAAR
                 (1); OR. PRODUCERS, RDV
                 (1); EXTENSION
                 SERV.CO-TTL (1);


06/22/2001    6  INSTITUTIONAL DEV. SPEC        S    S
                 (1); RURAL DEV.SPC. (1);
                 STRATEGIC ISSUES (1); TTL
                 (1); LIVESTOCK SPC. (1); POS
                 SPC. (1)
02/22/2002    2  AG.SERVICES, RES,CO-TT         S    S
                 (1); MINISTRY
                 REORGANIZATION (1);
10/21/2002    11 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST         S    S
 Mid-Term        (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Review           SPECIALIST (1); AG.
                 SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                 LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (1);
                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                 PO SPECIALIST (1); AG
                 .ECONOMIST S/E (1);
                 FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                 CONSULTANT (1)


07/02/2004    8  TTL, SR. AG. SERVICES          S    S
                 SPECIALIST(1); SOCIAL DEV.
                 SPECIALIST(1) ; SR.



                 - 28 -

                                                  ECONOMIST (1); AG.
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); LIVESTOCK
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  MNGT SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                                  PROCU. SPECIALIST (1); POS
                                                  SPECIALIST (1)

               11/20/2004                    2    SR. AG. ECONOMIST(1); SR.            S         S
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER TTL
                                                  (1)

               02/14/2005                    8    SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1); SR.           S         S
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                  AG. SPECIALIST CONS.(1);
                                                  OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                  SPECIALIST PROCUREMENT
                                                  (1); FIN MNGT SPECIALIST
                                                  (1); ENGINEER (1); TEAM
                                                  ASSISTANT (1)

 ICR
               06/19/2005                    3     SR. AG. SERVICES                    S         S
                                                   SPECIALIST (1); AG.
                                                   SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                                   (1); MINIST.
                                                   RESTRUCTURING (1)

January 1996 mission (first pre-appraisal mission) was a joint mission WB, French Ministry of
Cooperation and French Development Agency
July 1996 mission (second pre-appraisal mission) was a joint mission WB, French Ministry of
Cooperation, and IFAD. There was a close collaboration with USAID, the Canadian Agency, the
European Union and FAO during that same mission.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  145.7                         540.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        42.3                         124.4
  Supervision                               268.18                          765.8
  ICR
  Total




                                                   - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  - Summary of outcome of negociations for the PSAOP Senegal - World Bank - March 1999

  - Project Appraisal Document for the first phase of the Agricultural Services and Producer
  Organization ­ World Bank ­ April 1999

  - Panel report for the PSAOP quality at entry assessment - Quality Assurance Group -

  - Back-to-office report for the PSAOP launching workshop (June 2000) - World Bank -
  September 2000

  - Mid-term review aide-memoire and annexes - World Bank - 2002

  - Enhancing the Capacities of Rural Producer Organizations ­ The Case of the PSAOP in
  Senegal ­ M.R. Mercoiret ­ CIRAD ­ 2003

  - Reforming Agricultural Services in Partnership with Producer Organizations ­ Lessons of
  the Agricultural Services and Rural Producer Organizations Program (PSAOP) in Senegal ­
  P. Rondot and M.H. Collion ­ World Bank ­ March 2004

  - Organisations paysannes villageoises et développement rural au Sénégal - A. de Janvry and
  E. Sadoulet - Berkeley University - March 2004

  - Bilan d'exécution des activités de la composante OP - ASPRODEB - December 2004

  - Evaluation de la composante Fonds National de Recherches Agricoles et
  Agro-Alimentaires ­ Dr. Amadou Barro ­ FAO ­ June 2005

  - Rapport d'achèvement de la première phase du PSAOP - Ministère de l'Agriculture et de
  l'Hydraulique - August 2005

  - Rapport de mission d'évaluation de la composante conseil agricole et rural - Franz
  Schorosch - FAO - August 2005

  - Bilan et perspectives du conseil agricole et rural - ANCAR - October 2005




                                             - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report


                                          REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
                                                =-=-=-=-==-
                                       MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE
                                              ET DE L'HYDRAULIQUE
                                                 =-=-=-=-=-
           PROGRAMME DES SERVICES AGRICOLES ET ORGANISATIONS DE PRODUCTEURS
                                                     (PSAOP)


I. INTRODUCTION

Né d'un long processus qui a démarré en 1995, le «Programme Services Agricoles et Organisations des
Producteurs » (PSAOP) a abouti à la signature, le 14 octobre 1999, de l'Accord de Crédit n° 3219 SE
d'un montant de 20 200 000 DTS. La mise en vigueur est intervenue le 3 mai 2000. Initialement fixée au
30 juin 2003, la date de clôture a été prorogée au 31 décembre 2004 puis au 31 décembre 2005. Le
présent rapport résume les enseignements tirés de l'exécution de la première phase du PSAOP. Il est
structuré comme suit : (i) une présentation globale du projet qui insiste sur sa conception, ses objectifs et
les résultats globaux obtenus ; (ii) une analyse rétrospective des différents facteurs qui ont influencé son
exécution aussi bien du côté de l'emprunteur que de la Banque Mondiale, et des réalisations des
composantes du programme ; (iii) une analyse des mécanismes institutionnels mis en place pour la
pérennisation des acquis de la première phase. Un accent particulier est mis sur les leçons à tirer, les
recommandations et les perspectives.

II. Conception du projet
2.1 contexte et processus de formulation du projet
Jusqu'en 1995, le secteur agricole sénégalais était confronté à une crise grave et persistante qui s'est
traduite notamment par la stagnation de la production agricole globale, la précarité de la situation
alimentaire de nombreux ménages et par une forte prévalence de la pauvreté en milieu rural. A la base
de cette situation certaines contraintes avaient été répertoriées :
· des sécheresses cycliques, une dégradation des ressources naturelles et une baisse de la fertilité des
sols ;
· une persistance du monopole de l'Etat sur des produits tel que l'engrais,            avec des obstacles
réglementaires pour les exportations et les importations malgré son désengagement des fonctions
marchandes;
· un environnement socio-économique de l'agriculture peu incitatif pour la majorité des agriculteurs dont
la capacité d'investissement reste très limitée;
· la faiblesse des organisations des producteurs dans les domaines de la gestion et de l'organisation ;
· un système de recherche très peu centré sur les préoccupations des producteurs ;
· des services publics de conseils agricoles non réceptifs et inefficaces pour disséminer les technologies ;
· des infrastructures socioéconomiques de base insuffisantes.

Pour faire face à ces problèmes, le Sénégal a démarré à partir de 1995 le processus de formulation du
PASA accompagné du PISA dont le PSAOP est une composante. Le programme a été élaboré avec la
participation de différents partenaires comme la Banque Mondiale, la Coopération Française, le FIDA,
l'USAID, l'UE, la FAO et le CRDI. Des structures nationales étaient aussi impliquées ; il s'agit des
Ministères de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage, de la Recherche, de l'Economie et des Finances, de
l'Environnement et des producteurs à travers le CNCR et l'ASPRODEB, sous la coordination de l'Unité
de Politique Agricole (UPA) du Ministère de l'Agriculture.     Les domaines ciblés étaient : la recherche
agricole et agro alimentaire, le conseil agricole, les services centraux et décentralisés de l'agriculture et
de l'élevage, et l'appui aux OP. Au cours de cette phase dite d'évaluation, plusieurs missions
comprenant des visites de terrain ont été organisées. Elles ont permis de faire le point sur les progrès



                                                    - 33 -

dans l'élaboration du dossier et de mobiliser des experts de 11 spécialités du côté des partenaires. Du
côté de l'Etat du Sénégal, les cadres techniques, administratifs, financiers des Ministères et structures ci
dessus cités ont participé aux rencontres sectorielles et aux réunions de restitution. L'évaluation
proprement dite s'est tenue au mois de juin 1998 au Sénégal. Elle s'est effectuée sous forme d'ateliers
sectoriels, avec la participation des cadres nationaux et des experts de la Banque Mondiale, qui ont
permis d'élaborer les documents de base des négociations avec la Banque Mondiale en mars 1999 à
Washington. Une LPDI du secteur a ensuite été élaborée en 1999 par le Gouvernement avant le
démarrage officiel du projet en mai 2000.

2.2 Objectifs et stratégie du projet

L'enjeu de la première phase du PSAOP était d'aider à mettre en place les réformes institutionnelles
pour le développement agricole contribuant ainsi à la réduction de la pauvreté en milieu rural et la
conservation de l'environnement.         Ces réformes ont été définies dans la Lettre de Politique de
Développement Institutionnel du secteur pour répondre au nouveau contexte, marqué par la
libéralisation, la décentralisation, l'émergence de nouveaux acteurs et d'une société civile forte.

Par rapport à cet objectif global, dans la première phase, les objectifs spécifiques visaient à : a) accroître
la productivité, la production et les revenus des petites exploitations agricoles grâce à l'évolution des
techniques, b) donner des pouvoirs aux producteurs et à leurs organisations, c) rendre les services
publics plus responsables à l'endroit des producteurs et des organisations des producteurs ; et d)
répondre de façon équilibrée aux besoins identifiés par les différentes catégories de ruraux, tenant
compte notamment des besoins spécifiques des populations démunies, des femmes et des jeunes
ruraux.

Les aspects sectoriels couverts par le programme ont été axés sur i) les réformes institutionnelles pour
responsabiliser les services agricoles et les baser sur la demande pour les rendre plus efficients,
transférer ou partager certaines fonctions avec le secteur privé et la société civile, ii) la génération et le
transfert des technologies dans le but d'améliorer la productivité agricole de façon durable, la
diversification des cultures et la conservation des ressources naturelles et iii) l'habilitation et le
renforcement des capacités des OP.

Les stratégies retenues au vu des résultats enregistrés sur les projets précédents étaient les suivantes :
- une rupture d'avec des projets de recherche et de vulgarisation qui n'étaient pas comptables de leurs
résultats devant les producteurs et ne tenaient pas compte de leurs besoins ;
- Un soutien aux organisations de producteurs pour les habiliter à participer à la définition de l'agenda et
des priorités de la recherche et du conseil agricole et à prendre leurs propres décisions de renforcement
de capacités au moyen d'un mécanisme appelé FSRRD ;
- Une structure de conseil couvrant l'ensemble des services de conseil et moins dépendante de la tutelle
du Ministère ;
- un système de recherche qui intègre la production et la transformation ;
- une structure de financement qui encourage les complémentarités et le partenariat des divers acteurs
impliqués dans la recherche ;
- Une déconcentration/décentralisation et une redéfinition des fonctions des Ministères.

Dans sa mise en oeuvre, le programme s'est articulé autour de composantes toutes indépendantes les
unes des autres, avec leurs propres manuels de procédures et leurs systèmes financiers et comptables
devant développer des synergies d'actions :
    (a) Le Fonds National de Recherches Agricoles et Agro-alimentaires (FNRAA) chargé de financer le
         système national de recherches agricoles et agro-alimentaires, capable de répondre aux besoins
         des clients et utilisant au mieux les ressources disponibles ;
    (b) La Recherche Agricole et Agro-alimentaire à travers l'Institut Sénégalais de Recherches
         Agricoles (ISRA) et l'Institut de Technologies Alimentaires (ITA) en vue d'améliorer leurs
         performances, leurs capacités scientifiques et de gestion, en réhabilitant leurs infrastructures et
         en apportant de nouveaux équipements ;
    (c) L'Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCAR) comme service de conseil agricole



                                                    - 34 -

         comptable de ses résultats envers les producteurs et répondant à leurs besoins à travers des
         arrangements contractuels ;
     (d) Les Organisations de Producteurs pour améliorer leurs capacités à fournir des services à leurs
         membres pour accéder aux intrants, au crédit et au marché et à faire entendre leurs voix dans
         les processus de prise de décision ;
     (e) Les Ministères déconcentrés dans les régions et davantage focalisés sur leurs fonctions de
         définition des politiques, de suivi et de contrôle ;
     (f) Une unité fiduciaire, dépendant de la DDI, chargée de coordonner la passation de marchés et les
         décaissements.

Il n'a pas été crée une unité de gestion de projet au sens classique du terme. Le système mis en place
était ainsi structuré : une coordination technique confiée à la DAPS et une coordination des aspects
décaissements et passation des marché exercée par une cellule composée d'un chargé des
décaissement et d'un spécialiste en passation des marchés et placée sous l'autorité du Directeur de la
DDI. Ce système inédit dans les projets financés par la Banque Mondiale au Sénégal, a été conçu et mis
en oeuvre pour deux raisons principales : (1) les difficultés nées de l'exécution des PPF 968-1 et 968-2 ;
(2) la volonté commune de la Banque Mondiale et du Gouvernement de renforcer les capacités de
l'Emprunteur.

III. EXECUTION DU PROJET

L'exécution du Programme a été marquée par la conjonction de facteurs à la fois favorables et
défavorables aussi bien du côté de l'emprunteur que du côté du bailleur.

3.1 Facteurs ayant influencé l'exécution
3.1.1 Du côté du Sénégal
Facteurs favorables
     1. La qualité des leaders des OP et de l'équipe d'appui technique ayant accompagné leurs
         Fédérations ;
     2. La reconnaissance par l'Etat des OP comme partenaires crédibles ;
     3. La stabilité politique du pays ;
     4. L'accroissement substantiel des crédits de fonctionnement des services centraux et décentralisés
         des Ministères et des structures de recherche agricoles et agro-alimentaires ;
     5. L'engagement de tous les acteurs impliqués dans le programme, notamment certains cadres des
         Ministères ;
     6. La mise en place d'une unité fiduciaire au niveau de la DDI ;
     7. La mise en place du FNRAA.

Facteurs défavorables
     1. Le retard dans la mise en place des cadres responsables du MAE et de l'ANCAR et les
         conditions contraignantes d'éligibilité aux premiers décaissements appliquées à certaines
         composantes (ISRA et ASPRODEB) ont entraîné, entre autres facteurs, la prolongation de juin
         2003 à décembre 2005 ;
     2. Les longs délais mis dans la passation des marchés au démarrage du programme ont affecté le
         chronogramme de certaines activités ;
     3. La faiblesse de la coordination technique du programme tant au niveau régional que national liée
         à la non satisfaction des importants besoins en appui institutionnel (ressources humaines,
         infrastructures et équipements, budget de fonctionnement et faible rémunération des agents des
         Ministères) ;
     4. Les difficultés de mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie sur le budget d'investissement ;
     5. L'évolution rapide du portefeuille de projets de recherche au sein du FNRAA n'a pas été suivie
         d'une augmentation conséquente des moyens humains et logistiques en matière de suivi
         technique et financier ;
     6. L'absence d'une stratégie de communication du PSAOP ;
     7. La faiblesse de la concertation entre les acteurs de la R&D en particulier au niveau national ;
     8. L'insuffisance des ressources pour la réhabilitation des centres et stations de recherche de


                                                     - 35 -

         l'ISRA ;
     9. L'insuffisance dans la couverture à temps des CLCOP existants par l'ANCAR;
   10. L'absence de mécanismes de prise en charge et d'intervention des animateurs, auxiliaires ou
         relais des OP ainsi que la faiblesse du montant plafond des sous projets ont affecté le
         renforcement des capacités de ces dernières ;
   11. Le manque de ressources humaines au niveau des Ministères a entravé le bon déroulement du
         programme et la coordination des interventions des différents projets au niveau local en
         particulier PSAOP, PNIR, AFDS, POGV ;
   12. L'absence d'un manuel de procédures (reporting financier, passations des marchés), la mise en
         place tardive ou l'inexistence d'outils de suivi des marchés et des décaissements (logiciels) pour
         mieux formaliser les rapports de travail entre l'unité fiduciaire et les autres composantes ;
   13. Les nombreux changements institutionnels au sein des Ministères (MAE, MAH, MEL, Directions,
         etc.) pendant la durée du programme.

3.1.2 Du côté de la Banque Mondiale
Facteurs favorables
     1. La qualité de la supervision assurée par une forte équipe de la Banque Mondiale, ainsi que la
     fréquence des missions;
     2. La disponibilité à temps des aides mémoires ;
     3. La décentralisation des décisions au siège de la banque à Dakar ;
     4. L'instauration des revues trimestrielles du portefeuille des projets de la Banque.
Facteurs défavorables
     1. La longueur des délais de traitement des dossiers soumis à la Banque Mondiale pour avis de non
     objection ;
     2. La rigidité des procédures de la Banque quant à l'utilisation des fonctionnaires et/ou compétences
     internes aux structures comme consultants;
     3. Les procédures de décaissement sont peu adaptées à une exécution correcte des projets de
     recherche ;
     4. La fermeture de sous compte et/ou l'absence de caisse d'avance ont gêné respectivement le
     fonctionnement du FNRAA et de l'ANCAR.

3.2 Les réalisations des composantes du projet

3.2.1 Résultats globaux du projet

Depuis mai 2000, date d'entrée en vigueur du PSAOP, les réformes institutionnelles se sont mises en
place et les institutions ont fonctionné avec l'orientation prévue : La déconcentration des Ministères est
effective avec la création des DRDR et des IRSV et la séparation des différentes fonctions d'appui au
développement agricole tient compte des missions de chacun des partenaires (MAE, OP, secteur privé,
ANCAR, institutions de recherche); Un dispositif institutionnel régional est mis en place dans certaines
régions en partenariat avec les OP, les institutions de recherche et de conseil agricole et les DRDR ; Les
organisations de producteurs se sont habilitées à travers des mécanismes de concertation mis en place à
différents niveaux (CRCR, CLCOP) ; Des changements sont opérés dans les stratégies d'intervention en
milieu rural à travers un système national de CAR décentralisé ; Les structures de recherche sont mieux
organisées et ouvertes aux autres acteurs ; Un FNRAA comme outil de financement de la recherche est
mis en place et est opérationnel.

3.2.2 Le Fonds National de Recherches Agricoles et Agroalimentaires (FNRAA).

Le fonds a été créé en 1999 et a pu bénéficier d'un statut d'Association d'utilité publique en janvier 2004 ;
il dispose de manuels relatifs à la gouvernance et à la gestion de projets de recherche. Les différents
organes (comité de gestion, comité scientifique et technique et secrétariat exécutif) sont mis en place et
sont fonctionnels. Le personnel du Secrétariat exécutif mis en place, a bénéficié de formations
qualifiantes sur la passation des marchés, le suivi évaluation, l'élaboration et le suivi des indicateurs de
performance, l'utilisation optimale du logiciel TOMPRO. Depuis son démarrage, le fonds a lancé 05




                                                     - 36 -

appels à propositions. Ces appels ont permis de financer 30 projets de recherche sur 92 soumis répartis
comme suit du point de vue de la coordination: ISRA (19), UCAD (4), ITA (3), SOEFITEX (2), LERG (1),
EISMV (1) et couvrant toutes les zones agro écologiques du pays et exécutés en partenariat avec les
acteurs du Système National de recherches Agricoles et Agroalimentaires (SNRAA) pour un montant
global de 1,7 milliards FCFA. Le taux d'approbation des projets est de 33% et 50% des projets financés
portent sur de la R&D. Le Fonds a aussi contribué à la consolidation du Système National de Recherche
Agricole et Agroalimentaire (SNRAA) et favorisé le décloisonnement des institutions de recherche en les
associant autour de : 11 projets regroupant 20 institutions partenaires pour le 1er appel ; 05 projets
fédérant 13 institutions pour le 2nd appel ; 10 projets associant 22 institutions pour le 3ème appel ; 02
projets pour 08 institutions pour le 4ème appel ; 02 projets associant 08 institutions pour le 5ème appel

Le FNRAA a organisé deux séminaires ateliers sur l'élaboration des projets de recherche et un atelier sur
la valorisation des résultats de la recherche au profit des agents (chercheurs, enseignants-chercheurs) de
diverses structures du SNRAA. Il a aussi assuré la coordination de la mise en place d'un système
informatisé de suivi évaluation des trois composantes FNRAA, ANCAR, ASPRODEB avec des bases de
données interconnectées. Quant à la diversification des sources de financement, la Banque Africaine de
Développement (BAD) et l'Union Européenne ont participé au financement du FNRAA à travers
respectivement le PAPEL et le reliquat du Fonds Commun de Contrepartie à l'Aide Alimentaire
(FCCAA). Les audits financiers de 2000 à 2004 ont été réalisés, transmis dans les délais et jugés
satisfaisants.

3.2.3 La recherche agricole et agroalimentaire

L'Institut Sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA).

Le conseil d'administration a été élargi aux OP, aux élus locaux et au Privé à travers le Conseil national
du patronat (CNP). L'ISRA est à présent redimensionné avec la création d'un parc de recherche
(regroupement des centres nationaux de Dakar sur le site du LNERV en cours de réhabilitation) et des
centres régionaux de recherche ; il est renforcé en équipements de laboratoire et de station, en matériels
informatiques et roulants (voitures, motocyclettes). La consolidation de l'équilibre financier a permis la
couverture des charges de structures, l'application des dispositions du règlement d'établissement et la
redynamisation de la politique sociale. Pour pérenniser cet équilibre, un plan pluriannuel de financement
a été élaboré et soumis aux autorités de tutelle. Le système de gestion financière a été renforcé et
fonctionne normalement grâce à la formation, l'amélioration de l'environnement et des procédures
informatiques et une meilleure coordination interne des fonctions financières. L'Institut coordonne 18
projets régionaux et participe à la mise en oeuvre de 27 projets de recherche financés par le FNRAA sur
15 attendus ; il coordonne 20 de ces projets. Le programme de formation a permis le renforcement des
capacités des personnels d'appui, du potentiel scientifique et technique de l'Institution : formation
diplômante (30 agents) ; formation qualifiante continue (06) ; formation modulaire (116) ; et voyages
d'étude (06). L'ISRA a mobilisé 88% des ressources prévues dans son plan stratégique grâce notamment
à une forte contribution des financements extérieurs.

L'Institut de Technologie Alimentaire (ITA)

L'organisation interne de l'ITA est rationalisée, la séparation des activités de Recherche et les activités
commerciales est effective. Le cadre de gestion interne est renforcé avec l'élaboration de manuels de
procédures (qualité, GRH, administratives, comptables et financières). En matière de transfert de
technologie, l'ITA a réalisé 50 modules de formation au bénéfice de 690 personnes dans les domaines
de la transformation/conservation des fruits et légumes, de la viande, du lait, des produits halieutiques,
des céréales et légumineuses, etc. Depuis le démarrage du PSAOP, l'ITA a exécuté 27 projets financés
par des partenaires au développement dont 5 par le FNRAA. La mise en oeuvre du plan de renforcement
des capacités a permis le développement du potentiel scientifique et technique du personnel par le biais
de formations diplômantes (08 agents), des formations modulaires (43 agents), séminaires de
perfectionnement (18 agents). L'ITA a bénéficié d'un appui en équipements d'ateliers pilotes, en
matériels de laboratoire, en ouvrages scientifiques et en matériels informatiques et logistiques (voitures,
motocyclettes).



                                                    - 37 -

3.2.4 L'Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCAR).

Créée en 1997 avec un statut de société anonyme à participation publique majoritaire, l'ANCAR a
démarré ses activités en 2002. Elle a développé un système de conseil agricole décentralisé travaillant
au service des OP à travers une approche participative basée sur le partenariat (sociétés privées, ONG,
SRDR, filières et organisations faîtières, institutions de crédits, projets et programmes, institutions de
recherche, médias, etc.) et la coopération internationale à travers plus de 30 protocoles d'accord et 10
conventions. Le système de conseil agricole et rural s'est mis en place avec des équipes décentralisées
fonctionnelles (Directions régionales). A la date du 30 avril 2005, le personnel du conseil agricole et rural
(71 CAR, 21 chefs d'équipe et 23 Techniciens spécialisés) couvre 112 communautés rurales avec
CLCOP, 28 communautés rurales avec groupes d'OP et 15 communes rurales. Le plan de déploiement,
en cours, avec le recrutement de 35 conseillers agricoles et ruraux, permettra à l'agence d'exécuter des
programmes dans les 142 communautés rurales prévues. La prise en charge de la demande en matière
de conseil agricole et rural est un processus continu qui implique tous les agents des Directions
régionales. La première phase était axée principalement à la mise en place institutionnelle et le test des
démarches de conseil (mécanismes décrit dans le manuel des procédures techniques de l'ANCAR).
Ainsi, au 31 décembre 2004, 2817 contrats ont été signés avec les OP qui ont contribué à hauteur 36%
dans le financement. Grâce à un partenariat diversifié et sa stratégie d'intermédiation et de faire faire, les
producteurs qui travaillent avec les équipes de l'Agence ont davantage accès aux différents systèmes de
crédit. L'Agence a mené des initiatives concluantes dans le domaine de la production communautaire de
semences (arachide, maïs, etc.), l'amélioration des productions animales (production laitière dans la
région de Kolda, apiculture), l'appui contractuel aux OP en synergie avec le secteur privé local pour la
commercialisation, le renforcement des capacités organisationnelles des OP (mise en place du Comité
National de l'Interprofession de la Pêche artisanale au Sénégal - CONIPAS). Elle a initié des activités sur
la gestion de la qualité des produits : (i) la méthode de Gestion Intégrée de la Production et des
Déprédateurs dans le cadre du programme GIPD, (ii) la vulgarisation des Bonnes Pratiques Agricoles
phytosanitaires (BPA) (iii) un système de traçabilité est en test dans le cadre du projet d'opération pilote
d'amélioration de la filière de production et valorisation d'arachide de bouche en cours avec le CLCOP
de Paoskoto.

L'élaboration et la mise en oeuvre des programmes de conseil agricole et rural ont été rendues possibles
grâce à un ensemble d'instruments méthodologiques construits ou adaptés par l'ANCAR : un Manuel des
procédures techniques (MPT) qui décrit les mécanismes relatifs au fonctionnement technique de
l'Agence ; un Manuel des procédures de gestion administrative, financière et comptable (MPGAFC), des
notes d'orientation sur le fonctionnement technique des DR. La mise en place de l'Agence a été appuyée
par l'acquisition d'équipements informatiques, audiovisuels, de mobiliers de bureau, de voitures et de
motocyclettes, etc. L'Agence a hérité et réhabilité les anciens locaux de la SODEVA (dans les régions de
Thiès, Diourbel, Kaolack, Fatick et Louga) et le bâtiment de l'ex-Projet Semencier pour son siège. Deux
catégories de formation ont été dispensées sur la culture d'entreprise et sur les méthodes participatives
pour 104 agents. Des formations qualifiantes au Sénégal et à l'étranger ont concerné 68 agents de base
(47 conseillers agricoles, 9 chefs d'équipe et 12 techniciens spécialisés) et 11 cadres et agents
administratifs. L'audit stratégique et organisationnel et l'évaluation du personnel ont été conduits à son
terme et respectivement les rapports final et provisoire sont disponibles.       Un système de       gestion
financière et comptable décentralisé est mis en place comprenant notamment un manuel de procédures
administratives et comptables, un cadre et un référentiel comptable intégrant les aspects analytique et
budgétaire avec des missions d'audit interne régulières. Ainsi, les rapports d'audit sur les différents
exercices de 2000 à 2004 sont produits à temps et sans réserve majeure. L'ANCAR a joué le rôle
d'agence d'exécution financière dans le cadre du programme pastoral pilote (PPP) qui a acquis des
équipements informatiques et des véhicules. Le PPP a mis en place en zone sylvo-pastorale 4 sites
expérimentaux (Asré bani, Lol lol, Borboral et Boki Ndawé), des plans de gestion et renforcé les
capacités des acteurs sur l'approche holistique.


3.2.4 Les Organisations des Producteurs.




                                                    - 38 -

Des mécanismes de concertation des OP sont mis en place et fonctionnent à travers 152 CLCOP au
niveau des communautés rurales et 11 Cadres régionaux de Concertation des Ruraux (CRCR) au niveau
régional avec des manuels de procédures de gestion et de fonctionnement. Ces outils sont aujourd'hui
des mécanismes facilitant la concertation, le financement, la communication et la mobilisation des
producteurs à différents niveaux. Les CLCOP ont facilité le dialogue entre, d'une part, les OP et les
conseillers ruraux et, d'autre part, les OP et les services de développement et d'autres projets ; Une
bonne circulation de l'information entre les cadres de concertation du niveau national et régional est
favorisée grâce à l'appui de conseillers en communication. Le Fonds des services ruraux régis par la
demande géré par l'ASPRODEB a financé 1235 sous projets sur 852 prévus, permettant la formation de
61 855 exploitants familiaux et leurs accès à des technologies (amélioration de races d'animaux,
multiplication de semences sélectionnées) et aux systèmes de financement décentralisés. Un bulletin
trimestriel d'information (canal rural) paraît régulièrement. L'appui institutionnel s'est traduit par
l'acquisition de véhicules pour le CNCR et pour 04 CRCR, d'équipements informatiques, de matériels
audiovisuels. L'étude de faisabilité du fonds National de Développement rural a été restituée en
Décembre 2004 et les OP ont libéré leurs parts du capital de l'ANCAR. Le diagnostic des fédérations a
été fait et a débouché sur des plans d'action soumis à différents bailleurs de fonds. La composante a
appuyé l'implication du CNCR dans le processus d'élaboration de la LOASP, de la définition de la lettre
de politique de la filière arachide, et dans les différents organes de gouvernance, d'instituts et de
services agricoles

3.2.5 Les Ministères de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage.

La restructuration des Ministères a conduit :
Pour l'Agriculture : (i) à la création de la DAPS dotée de locaux fonctionnels, chargée entre autres de la
coordination technique du programme, (ii) au recentrage des missions des Directions nationales
(Agriculture, Protection des végétaux, Horticulture, etc.) ; (iii) à la déconcentration avec la création des
Directions Régionales de Développement Rural (DRDR) rattachées au Cabinet avec des fonctions
élargies (pilotage du développement rural au niveau de la région, suivi-évaluation, contrôle), l'installation
des services départementaux du développement rural. Par ailleurs, le Ministère dispose d'un manuel de
planification budgétaire.
Pour l'Elevage : i) à la création de la CAPSE, ii) à des Inspections Régionales de Services Vétérinaires
(IRSV) recentrées dans leurs fonctions régaliennes en santé animale et en contrôle de qualité des
denrées alimentaires d'origine animale; (iii) à l'installation des Inspections Départementales de Services
Vétérinaires (IDSV). Les programmes de formation ont permis le renforcement des capacités : Pour
l'agriculture : 213 agents au niveau central et 508 au niveau régional sur des thèmes différents dont 24
formations qualifiantes et 05 diplômantes. Six (6) de ces formations ont été effectuées à l'étranger. Pour
un accès équitable à la formation, un manuel des procédures a été élaboré. Pour l'élevage : les
formations ont mobilisé 559 hommes/sessions au niveau local et 30 hommes/sessions à l'étranger.

Les Ministères de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage ont bénéficié d'un appui institutionnel (équipements
informatiques, véhicules et motocyclettes, mobiliers de bureau, matériels audiovisuels) aussi bien au
niveau central, régional que départemental. La Direction de l'Administration Générale et de l'Equipement
(DAGE) a été renforcée avec le recrutement d'un comptable. Le PSAOP a permis une augmentation
significative des budgets de fonctionnement des Directions centrales, des DRDR, des IRSV, des IDSV et
SDDR, la réalisation de 05 études pour le compte des Ministères dont celle sur la revue des dépenses
publiques en cours ; et a accompagné la privatisation de la médecine vétérinaire en supportant la
formation de vétérinaires privés et le mandat sanitaire. Pour le siège du Ministère de l'Agriculture, toutes
les études sont terminées et la construction différée à la 2ème phase. Le Ministère de l'Elevage a
bénéficié d'un programme de réhabilitation des locaux des laboratoires des IRSV de Thiès, Kaolack et de
St Louis, de la mise en réseau informatique des services centraux et décentralisés et de la construction
d'un centre de quarantaine à Rosso Sénégal.


    3.2.6 L'Unité Fiduciaire /DDI




                                                     - 39 -

Une Cellule légère rattachée à la Direction de la Dette et de l'Investissement du Ministère de l'Economie
et des Finances, a été mise en place pour coordonner les décaissements et la passation des marchés du
programme. Elle est composée d'un Chargé des décaissements et d'un Spécialiste en passation des
marchés recrutés au démarrage du programme, ainsi que d'une assistante au Chargé des décaissements
dont le recrutement est intervenu en cours de la troisième année. La Cellule a bénéficié de locaux
fonctionnels, de mobiliers de bureau, de matériel informatique et de véhicules. La quasi-totalité des
marchés programmés a été réalisée à l'exception de la construction du siège du Ministère de l'Agriculture
qui est reportée à la deuxième phase, après que toutes les études techniques ont été achevées. Le
personnel de la cellule a bénéficié de formations qualifiantes en passation des marchés, en gestion
financière et suivi budgétaire et en perfectionnement en Anglais,          ainsi que de deux formations
diplômantes (comptabilité et gestion MBA). Les réunions (bimensuelles puis mensuelles) tenues par la
cellule avec les composantes ont permis le décloisonnement des composantes et la capitalisation en
interne des procédures de passation des marchés et de décaissements, ce qui a permis une réduction
des délais et une amélioration de la qualité des documents de passation des marchés. Dans le cadre des
revues périodiques des états certifiés, organisées par la Banque Mondiale, deux missions ont concerné
le PSAOP en 2003 et en 2005. Toutes ces missions ont noté dans leurs conclusions, la bonne qualité des
DRF du Programme. De 12% en année 2 du Projet, le taux de décaissement a atteint à la date du 20
août 2005, le niveau de 95% avec un taux de progression moyen de 20% /an.

IV.      Impacts et leçons apprises

4.1      Impacts sur les institutions

4.1.1 Les Organisations de producteurs : Les producteurs et leurs organisations aux niveaux national
(CNCR/fédérations nationales), régional (CRCR) et local (CLCOP) ont participé à la mise en cohérence
de l'ensemble des activités et réformes entreprises dans le cadre du PSAOP. Ils sont des partenaires
reconnus des services publics. Les CLCOP participent aujourd'hui à la création d'un environnement
organisationnel local. Les OP aux niveaux national, régional et local sont capables de formuler et de
négocier des propositions de politiques et de stratégies de développement agricoles. Elles font
maintenant entendre leur voix dans les décisions qui sont prises les concernant. Elles ont pu améliorer
leur niveau d'organisation, ce qui a permis, aux niveaux local et régional, d'accéder à des fonds
d'investissements détenus par d'autres projets ou disponibles à travers les institutions bancaires. Elles
ont pu commencer à résoudre des contraintes structurelles du secteur agricole, à savoir la disponibilité
des semences de qualité, l'accès aux crédits et la mise en marché de leurs produits.

4.1.2 Le Fonds National de Recherches Agricoles et Agro-Alimentaires (FNRAA) : Grâce au
programme, le fonds existe, dispose d'un statut juridique approprié avec des organes de gestion
fonctionnels, s'appuie sur un Comité Scientifique et Technique mobilisant un réseau de 100 experts
nationaux, sous régionaux et internationaux ; Il finance des projets qui résultent de la demande des
utilisateurs. Son expérience est en train de faire tâche d'huile dans la sous région (Tchad, Bénin, Burkina
Faso, Mali & Tunisie) et il a contribué à la consolidation du SNRAA à travers entre autre la mise en place
d'un plan stratégique validé par ses membres.




                                                    - 40 -

4.1.3. La Recherche Agricole et Agro-alimentaire

4.1.3.1. Institut sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA) : L'élargissement du conseil
d'administration aux OP, aux élus locaux et au secteur privé à travers le Conseil national du patronat
(CNP) a permis leur participation à la définition des orientations de l'Institut qui a diversifié et consolidé
son partenariat scientifique tant au plan national que sous régional. L'équilibre financier a été amélioré
avec un effet de levier sur la mobilisation des financements au titre de conventions particulières et des
recettes tirées des offres de services aux partenaires (Ministères, ANCAR), et a permis une meilleure
maîtrise de ses charges de structures. Le renforcement des capacités à permis le renouvellement des
profils et compétences, l'amélioration du contrôle interne et la production à temps des états financiers. La
gestion scientifique s'est nettement améliorée avec la tenue régulière des réunions du comité scientifique
et technique, la valorisation des acquis (bilan de la recherche redynamisation de sa revue scientifique
avec l'ITA) et l'évaluation des chercheurs.

4.1.3.2. Institut de Technologie Alimentaire (ITA) La séparation des fonctions de recherche et des
fonctions commerciales est effective. La diversification des sources de financement est une réalité avec
la contribution de l'ICRAF, l'ACDI, l'AIEA , l'ONUDI, l'UEMOA et la Coopération espagnole). Les états
financiers sont produits à temps et sans réserves majeures.

4.1.4. L'Agence nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCAR) L'Agence diversifie son partenariat à
travers des arrangements contractuels, ce qui permet à de nombreux acteurs publics et privés
d'harmoniser et de rationaliser leurs interventions en direction des OP et d'adopter une démarche de
réponse à la demande.

4.1.5. Les Ministères de l'Agriculture et de l'élevage La stratégie qui supporte la mise en oeuvre des
réformes est maintenant bien ancrée et bien orientée avec une claire compréhension des missions de
chacun des partenaires. Cela s'est traduit par la LOASP adoptée par l'Assemblée nationale en juin 2004.
Les services régionaux assument mieux leurs responsabilités de coordination du développement rural et
le Ministère s'est doté d'un bureau de la formation professionnelle agricole. Le financement de la
déconcentration par l'Etat, malgré son insuffisance, est devenu systématique, ce qui devrait en assurer la
pérennité.

4.1.6 L'Unité fiduciaire/DDI Les rapports d'audit du compte spécial et des composantes ont été
régulièrement établis et transmis à la Banque Mondiale sans réserves majeures. Les demandes de
retrait de fonds pour la reconstitution du compte spécial ont été préparées et envoyées en moyenne
chaque mois, conformément aux procédures de l'IDA en la matière.

4.2      Leçons apprises

La démarche participative adoptée dans la préparation comme dans l'exécution du programme a permis
de manière consensuelle, de définir la nature et la profondeur des changements institutionnels, le
contenu, les cibles et les moyens des actions d'accompagnement. Ainsi, des actions non prévues
initialement ont été ainsi prises en charge parce que répondant aux préoccupations des OP et/ ou du
Gouvernement. Cependant, le PSAOP reste peu connu des partenaires régionaux (Sociétés régionales,
autres Projets, ONG, etc.). Le pari de ne pas disposer d'une unité de gestion du projet aurait dû être
accompagné d'une dotation suffisante de moyens à la disposition du service en charge de la coordination
technique. L'absence d'unité de gestion du projet ne devait pas signifier une absence de moyens
notamment en ressources humaines qualifiées et en logistique. A cela s'ajoute une faiblesse de la
coordination technique du programme aux niveaux régional et national par des administrations qui
sortent affaiblies des programmes d'ajustement structurel. Aussi, les différences de traitement salarial
entre les personnels des différentes composantes et la faiblesse du système indemnitaire ne facilitent
pas la collaboration et le partenariat.

Spécifiquement, les enseignements suivants peuvent être tirés :
· Au niveau du FNRAA : L'option prise de ne pas financer les équipements et les modalités de mise à



                                                    - 41 -

disposition des fonds ne sont pas souvent adaptées à la spécificité des projets. Il en est de même de la
durée des projets qui ne correspond pas souvent au phasage du programme. Les ressources humaines
pour le suivi technique et financier des projets ont été insuffisantes et la construction du partenariat
autour des projets FNRAA a posé des problèmes pour la justification des dépenses et l'élaboration des
rapports.

· Au niveau de l'ISRA et l'ITA : La spécificité de la recherche fait qu'un certain nombre de formations ne
trouve pas de spécialistes chez les prestataires locaux. En dépit des réalisations du plan de formation, le
potentiel scientifique de l'ISRA reste insuffisant du fait des départs massifs des chercheurs. L'appui
institutionnel ne prend pas en compte tous les besoins en équipements des programmes de recherches
à soumettre au FNRAA, il importe de reconsidérer cette disposition qui constitue une contrainte pour les
chercheurs. Le transfert de toute technologie dans le domaine de la transformation s'accompagne de
connaissances dans le domaine industriel dont les études de faisabilité n'étaient pas prévues dans le
PSAOP constituant ainsi un frein au transfert et à la valorisation des résultats. L'insuffisance des crédits
alloués au Génie Civil et aux équipements a obligé l'ISRA à différer certains investissements relatifs à la
réhabilitation et à l'équipement des centres et stations régionaux.

· Au niveau de l'ANCAR : Le statut de l'ANCAR comme Société Anonyme à participation publique
majoritaire est difficilement conciliable avec l'objectif d'être comptable vis-à-vis des OP (influence de la
tutelle) ce qui a des conséquences sur ses performances et la qualité de ses services. La non prise en
compte des besoins de conseil agricole et rural dans les zones urbaines et périurbaines et des
communes rurales pose un problème d'équité. La privatisation des services de conseils agricoles et
ruraux nécessite une bonne connaissance des catégories d'OP et une modulation de leur niveau de
participation aux coûts du conseil. Malgré toutes ces difficultés inhérentes à la mise en place d'une
structure nouvelle, l'Agence a réalisé des activités de conseil agricole et rural répondant à la demande
des organisations de producteurs. Le mécanisme de réponse à la demande a atteint une masse critique
qui autorise une approche technique plus structurante.

· Au niveau des OP : Les ressources publiques mises à leur disposition ont été gérées de manière
transparente et efficiente et leur ont permis de renforcer leurs relations avec leur base et leur capacité
d'analyse et de propositions. Elles sont à même de participer à la mise en oeuvre des réformes des
services de l'agriculture et de l'élevage. Le personnel existant de l'ASPRODEB et du CNCR est
surchargé de travail parce que sollicité par une série de partenaires nationaux et internationaux et ne
peut mobiliser toutes les ressources disponibles pour mettre en oeuvre les activités prévues. Malgré la
promotion des CLCOP, d'autres cadres continuent d'exister en totales contradictions et la dépendance
des cadres de concertation (CRCR et CLCOP) à la subvention du FSRRD limite leur autonomie de
fonctionnement. Les Agences d'Exécution Technique ont coûté cher au programme et n'ont pas pallié à
l'absence de dispositif devant accompagner une réelle construction de la demande de services. La
faiblesse des montants alloués par sous projet n'ont pas permis une prise en charge suffisante de la
demande. Les conditions d'accès aux virements du FSRRD de l'ASPRODEB par l'intermédiaire de
structures financières décentralisées, encore peu habituées à ce mécanisme, retardent l'exécution des
activités des CLCOP. Malgré les mécanismes et procédures mis en place, il existe encore des
problèmes de transparence et de gouvernance au niveau de certains CLCOP.

· Au niveau des Ministères de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage : L'absence de motivation du personnel
impliqué dans la gestion du Programme n'a pas permis de fidéliser les agents à leurs postes. Malgré la
mise en oeuvre de la réforme, des conflits de compétences demeurent entre les Directions Centrales et
les Directions Régionales. Les crédits alloués à la formation ont été insuffisants par rapport aux besoins
des Ministères. Les véhicules acquis au profit des DRDR/SDDR se sont révélés inadaptés.

· Au niveau de l'unité fiduciaire/DDI : La mise en place d'une cellule légère de coordination de la
gestion financière et de passation des marchés a permis une gestion de proximité et un suivi rapproché
des composantes.

V.        Recommandations/Conclusions




                                                    - 42 -

5. 1. Pour le Sénégal: Globalement, le Sénégal devra, avec les ressources du PSAOP2, mettre en
oeuvre concrètement les orientations de la LOASP. Il faudra également élaborer une stratégie nationale
de communication et d'information, améliorer la coordination technique du programme et accélérer le
processus de mise en place du FNDASP. Pour redynamiser les cellules régionales R&D, l'ISRA, le
CNCR et l'ANCAR doivent instaurer des réunions de concertation au niveau national. Le plan stratégique
du SNRAA devra servir de document d'orientations lors de l'élaboration des plans sectoriels des instituts
de recherche et des établissements d'enseignement supérieur. Le programme devra aider à harmoniser
les systèmes d'indemnisation pour les missions de terrains au niveau des différentes composantes et
actualiser le manuel des procédures de mobilisation du BCI élaboré par les Ministères.

FNRAA L'évolution rapide du portefeuille des projets nécessite le renforcement des ressources humaines
pour faciliter le suivi technique et financier des projets de recherche. Il faudra, pour l'amélioration du
fonctionnement du fonds, un siège fonctionnel mis à disposition par l'Etat, la révision des manuels
régissant la gestion des projets et l'élaboration d'un manuel de suivi technique et financier des projets de
recherche.

ISRA et ITA : L'appui en crédits de fonctionnement est nécessaire pour le recrutement de chercheurs et
d'allocataires de recherche compte tenu des nombreux départs enregistrés et des besoins nouveaux.
Pour améliorer le transfert aux industries des résultats de recherche, il sera nécessaire d'inscrire des
crédits pour les études de faisabilité industrielles des technologies. Le plan pluriannuel de financement
de l'ISRA devra être approuvé avec les autorités étatiques en vue notamment de la révision de son
règlement d'établissement et du recrutement de chercheurs.

ANCAR : Il faudra inscrire des ressources supplémentaires dans le budget de l'Etat pour permettre le
recrutement du dispositif de base nécessaire à la couverture de tous les CLCOP, en attendant la mise en
place du FNDASP. L'Agence devra étendre les services fournis aux OP dans toutes les Communautés
rurales, les zones urbaines, périurbaines et les communes rurales pour plus d'équité et déterminer la part
des OP dans le financement des programmes de conseil agricole et rural selon les catégories des OP et
les types de services à fournir La mise en place du Système d'Information Technologique Agricole et
Rural (SITAR) est aussi nécessaire pour capitaliser les informations existantes. La mise à disposition de
locaux fonctionnels au niveau central et régional

Composante OP : Les collectivités locales étant les premiers partenaires des OP, il sera nécessaire
d'assurer un meilleur ancrage institutionnel des cadres de concertation (CRCR et CLCOP) pour leur
pérennisation. Dans ce sens, il conviendra de renforcer la concertation régionale des OP. L'ASPRODEB
devra réviser les différents manuels de procédures et de gestion en vue d'augmenter les capacités de
répondre à la demande de financement des sous projets et de définir des mécanismes de prise en
charge et des interventions des animateurs, auxiliaires ou relais des OP. le Gouvernement devra
encourager une plus forte synergie avec les programmes du secteur pour une utilisation plus rationnelle
des fonds d'investissement . La composante OP devra mettre plus l'action sur les OP faîtières nationales
en ce qu'elles sont les outils pour le développement des filières. Dans ce sens, la composante devra
aider à une plus grande maîtrise économique et technique des OP.

Ministères de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage : Pour permettre aux Ministères d'assumer leurs missions, il
est nécessaire de renforcer la composante Ministères en ressources humaines et matérielles. Par
ailleurs, pour la mise en oeuvre des réformes, le principe de la subsidiarité devra être formalisé en
particulier sur le contrôle phytosanitaire, la certification des semences et les statistiques. L'importance
de la formation et son caractère transversal à plusieurs composantes implique de prévoir une sous
composante stratégie nationale de formation agricole et rurale au sein de la composante Ministère.
L'appui à la mise en oeuvre de la LOASP devra être un axe majeur d'intervention de la phase II Le PPP
devra être évalué pour apprécier sa pertinence et son ancrage institutionnel. La composante élevage
devra être dotée d'une unité de gestion autonome.

Unité Fiduciaire DDI Un manuel de procédures formalisant les rapports de travail entre l'Unité fiduciaire




                                                      - 43 -

et les composantes devra être élaboré.

5.2.    Pour la Banque mondiale

Un fonds d'investissement productif en faveur des OP pour favoriser la maîtrise technique et
économique de leurs activités et des segments de filière sur lesquels elles sont maîtresse d'oeuvre et un
mécanisme de financement de la R/D doivent être mis en place. Les appuis institutionnels des
composantes (national, régional et local) doivent être renforcés tant pour les équipements que pour le
fonctionnement de même que les capacités des institutions partenaires impliquées dans les projets de
recherche. La mise en place d'un dispositif d'aide à la formulation des sous projets suivant le processus
de construction de la demande serait nécessaire. Un mécanisme assurant la continuité des projets
indépendamment de la durée des phases du programme, des procédures de mise à disposition des
fonds conformes au calendrier d'exécution et des mécanismes souples de fonctionnement du secrétariat
exécutif et de sécurisation des subventions aux projets devront être mis en place. La rémunération, sur
le crédit IDA, des compétences internes pour l'animation de          séminaires /ateliers pour certaines
formations modulaires devra être autorisée. La phase 2 du PSAOP devra financer en priorité les
investissements complémentaires de l'ISRA et l'ITA notamment les équipements des locaux réhabilités
et le matériel agricole.   Pour la deuxième phase, des orientations majeures sont proposées pour
consolider les acquis, améliorer la connaissance du programme, promouvoir les investissements
productifs, intégrer la formation agricole et rurale, étendre le conseil agricole et rural dans les zones
périurbaines et les communes rurales. La note conceptuelle élaborée en trace les grandes lignes.




                                                   - 44 -

- 45 -

