Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18554-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.4 (SDR 20.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROGRAM
April 8, 1999
Rural Development III
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1998)
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00  =  550CFAfranc
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
Banque Africaine de Developpement
AFD             Agence Fran,aise de Developpement
AGEP            Agence d 'Execution des Projets
Ag. SECAL       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
ANCAR           Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural
(National Agency for Agricultural and Rural Counsel)
ANPCR           Association Nationale des Presidents de Communaute's Rurales
(National Association of the Presidents of Rural Communities)
APL             Adaptable Program Loan
ASPRODEB        Association Senegalaise pour la Promotion des Petits Projets de Developpement
CAMES           Conseil Africain et Mlalgache de I 'Enseignement Supirieur
(African and Malagasy Council for Higher Education)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CFA             Communaute Financiere Africaine
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
CLCOP           Cadre Local de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs
CRCOP           Cadre Regional de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs
CNCR            Conseil National de Concertation et de Cooperation des Ruraux
(National Rural People Council for Consultation and Cooperation)
CPSP            Caisse de Pe'requation et de Stabilisation des Prix (Price Stabilization Agency)
CSE             Centre de Suivi Ecologique (Center for Environmental Monitoring)
DDI             Direction de la Dette et de I 'Investissement du Ministire de l 'Economie, des Finances
et du Plan
(Directorate of Debt and Investment of the Ministry of Economics, Finances and Planning)
DDRSF           Demand-Driven Rural Services Fund
DDRIF           Demand-Driven Rural Investment Fund
EIMSV           Ecole Inter-Etats de Medecine et de Sciences Veterinaire
(Regional School for Veterinary Sciences and Medicine)
ENSA            Ecole Nationale des Sciences de / 'Agriculture
(National School for Agricultural Sciences)
EPST            Etablissement Public az caractere Scientifique et Technique
(Public Agency for Science and Technology)
Vice President: Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Mr. Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager: Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader:    Mrs. Marie-Helene Collion



FAO             Food and Agricultural Organizationi of the United Nations
Orgcinisation des Nations Unies pour' 1 alinentation et I/ 'agricultu-re
FONGS           Federation Nationale des Organisatiots non Goi/l'ernwtneL/aleS dle  Sehnegal
GOS             Government of Senegal
IAPSO           Inter-Agency Procuremilenit Service
IAS             International Accounting Standaid
ICB             International Competitive Biddin,,
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISRA            Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricole (Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute)
ITA             Inst it t de Technologie Alimentaire (Food Techinology Instittite)
LPDI            Lettre de Politique de DThveloppemnent Instituitiowniel
(Letter of Institutional Development Policy)
MA              Ministry of Agriculture
ML              Ministry of Livestock
NARS            National Agriculture Research System
NARF            National Agricultural Research Fund
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
OCIR            Opportunity Cost of Capital
PNVA            Projet National de Vulgarisation Agricole (National Extension Project)
PO              Producer Organizations
QBCS            Quality-Based and Cost Selection
R&D             Research and Development
SAED            Societe d 'Amenagement et d 'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du Fleuve
Senegal et des Vallees du Fleuve Senegal et de la Faleene
(Senegal River Valley Development Agency)
SDRD            Societes Regionales de Developpement Rural
SODAGRI         Societe' de Developpement Agricole et Industrielle du Seneigal
SODEFITEX       Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (Cotton Development Company)
SODEVA          Societe de DIveloppement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
(Extension Services Agency for the Peanut Bassin)
SOE             Statement of Expenditure
SONACOS         Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Oleagineux (Groundnut Oil Company)
STC             Scientific and Technical Committee
UE              Union Europeenne (European Union)
UNDP            United Nations Development Project
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
TEA             Technical Executing Agency
WARF            West African Rural Foundation



Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
CONTENTS
A: Program   Purpose  and  Project Development Objective ..............................................................- 2
1.  Program   purpose  and  program     phasing ..................................................................                                     2
2.  Project development objectives .........................                                         ........................................3
3. Key Project performance indicators and triggers for the second phase .........................4
B: Strategic Context ..................................................................5
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .......5
2.  Main  sector issues and  Governmeit strategy ................................................................6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................7
4. Program  description and performance triggers for subsequienit loans .......................... 10
C: Project Description Summary .................................................................. 10
1. Project components .................................................................                                                              10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project ................................... 12
3.  Benefits and  target populationi ..................................................................13
4.  Institutional and  implementationi arrangemenits ........................................................... 14
5.   Accounting. Auditinig  and  Reporting .................................................................                                           15
D: Project Rationale .................................................................                                                                             18
1.  Project alternatives considered  and  reasons  for rejection ............................................ 18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...... 18
3.  Lessons  learned  and  reflected  in  the  project design . ................................................... 19
4.  Indications  of borrower commitment and  ownership .................................................. 19
5.  Value  added  of Bank  and  IFAD    support in  this  project .............................................. 20
E: Summary Project Analysis ..................................................................                                                                         1
1.  Economic ................................................................. 21
2.  Impact of recurrent costs on  public  finances ...............................................................2   1
3. Technical .................................................................                                                                      "
4. Institutional .................................................................                                                                  "
5. Social .................................................................. 
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                                                        23
7. Participatory approach .................................................................                                                          23
F: Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                                                      24
G: Main Credit Conditions .................................................................                                                                        25
Agreements to  be  reached  and  recommendations ............................................................. 25
Tasks to  be  completed  for Board  presentation ................................................................. 26
Tasks to  be  completed  before  credit effectiveness . .......................................................... 26
Tasks to be completed before component disbursement .................................................. 27
H:  Readiness  for Implementation  ................................................................. 27
1: Compliance with Bank Policies .................................................................                                                                 28



Annexes
Annex 1.             Project Design Summary ..........................................                                     29
Annex 11.            Project Description .......................................... 47
Annex Ill.           Estimated Project Costs ..........................................                                    59
Annex IV.            Economic and Financial Analysis ..........................................                            67
Annex V.             Impact of Recurrent Project Costs on Public Finanices ....................................... 71
Annex VI.            Procurement and Disbursemenit Arrangemilenits ............................................ 76
Table A.             Project Costs by Procurement Arrangemenlts ..................................                      78
Table B.             Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ................................ 79
Table C.             Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..........................................                             83
Annex VII.           Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..........................................                     84
Annex Vil.          Documents in Project File ..........................................                                  85
Annex IX.            Letter of Institutional Developmenit Policy ..........................................                94
Annex X              Statement of Loans and Credits ..........................................                            122
Annex Xi.            Country at a Glance .......................................... 124
Map IBRD 29989



Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Counitry Departiment 14
Date: April 8. 1999                                                 ['ask 'l'car leader: Mlarie-llnlunc Collion
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub                                    Sector Nlager: Jean-Paul Chausse
Project ID: SN-PA-2367         Sector: Rural Development             Program Objective Catcgorv: lSD,'I.SI),'PR
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Lending                        Program of' l'argeted Interveintioni:    [XI  Yes    11   No
Program Financing Data
Source                            Government          Beneficiaries          IFAD           IDA         Total
Phase l                                                         13.5              0.2                6.0           27.4        47.1
Phase 1i                                                        11.5              0.7                4.2           21.3        37.7
Phase III                                                       11.9              0.7                5.3           21.1         39.0
l'otal l'rogram Costs                                           36.9              1.6                15.5          69.8        123.8 IJSI)
Project Financing Data                           [ I Loan          [XI Credit            I I Guarantee          [I Other [Specify!
Amount: SDR 20.2 million (US$27.4 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                                    [xi   Multicurrcncy           [ j   Single currency. specify
Grace period (years): 10                [I    Standard Variable             F Fixed             [I       1113OR-hased
Years to maturitv: 40
Commitment fee:  0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (LJS$ni):
Source                               Taxes                 l.ocal               Foreign               T'otal
Government                                                  8.0                   1.9                   3.6                 13.5
IIFA)                                                                             2.5                   3.5                  6.0
Beneficiarics                                                                     0.2                                        0).2
IDA                                                                               11.6                 15.8                 27.4
'I'otal        8. 0                  16. 1                23.0                 47.1
Borrower: Republic of Senegal
Responsible agencies: Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock. National Agricultural Resciarcih Fund (NARF): Senegalese Agricultuiral Research
Institute (ISRA): Food 'I'echnology Instituite ([IA): National Agency lor Agricultural and Rurai CoLinsel (ANCAAR):
Association Senegalaise poutr la Promotion ties 1'etis l'ruoje's (It /)i;)t'eloppm'nut'  (ASPRODE1B). .
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):             1999            2000      200)1            20)02
Annual 2.4              11.0      8.()             6.0)
Cumulative 2.4              13.4     2.4               27.7
For Guarantees:                                               [     Plartiail             P artial risk
credit
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                     [       Yes                  I      No
If yes. estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 3 years  Expected effectiveness date: I)ecemher 3 1. 1999    Expected closing date: December 31, 2002



Page 2
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing (see Annex 1)
Poverty alleviation is at the core of the Program. To achieve this goal, the overall Program objective is
the sustainable increase of smalliholder agricultural productivity, production. and incomiies through
technological change, while at the same time protecting the environilmienit.
Toward this end, the approach to supporting agricultural developmenit must change. For technologies to
be relevant to producers' needs, agricultural services must be client-responisive and demanld-driveni. The
strategy the Program will pursue to achieve the overall objective will be: (i) empowerilienit of producers
and their organizationis, so that they have the technical and organizational capacity to formulate their
demands and to apply leverage, particularly financial, to make their voices heard; (ii) public services
institution accoulitability to producers, which implies increased auton1omily of these institutionis and major
changes in their organization and managemenit to implemenit businiess-like management practices.
Therefore, the long-term  vision for rural institutions involved in agriculttiral development is the
following:
(a)    Strong and effective producer organizationls at -nationial, regional and local levels, capable of:
(i) having a say. technically and financially, in technology genierationi and transfer: and
(ii) effectively providing services to their members to promote technology adoption. Producer
organizations will be able to participate in the finanicinig of research and extensionl activities out
of, inter alia, the existing levies on agricultural productioll, whiich will be co-maniaged withi the
government in the fuIture. This proposed arrangemiienit will be subject to the results of on-goilng
studies and negotiationis between the Govermiienit and the producers.
(b)    Extension services accountable to producers and responsive to producers' demilanid. Decision-
makinig regarding extension programs and maniagemilenit will be in the hands of producer
organizationis, who will bear a substantial share of the costs of these services, in part through
existing levies co-managed with the government.
(c)    A separation of research funding from  research executioll.  All research activities will be
financed out of a National Agricultural Research Fund (NARF) managed independently from the
implementinig research institutes. Decisions regarding research allocations will be made by a
scientific committee and a management committee with a majority representation of research
users.
(d)    At the local level, research and development (R&D) and extension activities will be identified
and programmed jointly with producer organizations and be subject to contractual arrangements
between producer organizations, on the one hand, and research and extension on the other.
(e)    The Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock will be focused on policy formulation, monitoring
and evaluation, and regulatory functions, with corresponding services strengthened and relocated
to the regions. Mandates between the Ministries and their agencies (Societs Regionales de
Developpement Ruiral SRDR) and between the Ministries' agencies and the extension services
will be clearly separated.
The above is reflected in the Letter of Institutional Development Policy which was reviewed by the
Association during negotiations and has been adopted by the Government.
It is envisioned that achieving this long-term vision-which entails major institutional reforms and
investment in social capital-requires long-term  support.  Therefore a 10-year Program  has been
designed in three phases. It will be implemented through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL).



Page 3
Program Phase Objectives                             Trigger Conditions
First Phase (1999-2002). To set in place the institutional  See detailed trigger conditions in Section A
reforms to achieve autonomy and accountability of public  3.
agencies and empower producer organizations.
Second Phase (2003-2005). To consolidate the          Institutional reforms achieved during the first
achievements of the first phase, -in particular the    phase have been consolidated.
accountability and responsiveness of research and
extension agencies, -and thus create an environment in   The institutiolns involved functionl according
which the beneficiaries are willing to assume an      to their manual of procedures and remain
increasing share of the cost of the services they receive.   accountable to the users.
Third Phase (2006-2009). To ensure the long-term
sustainability of the system by completing the transfer of
financial responsibility for operating costs to producers
and other shareholders/clients of the research and
extension agencies.
2. Project development objectives
The overall objective of the first phase of the Program (the Project) is to set in place the institutionial
reforms to achieve autonomy and accountability of public agencies and empower producer organizations.
Specific objectives are as follows:
(a)    establish an effective national agriculture and agroprocessing research system  capable of
responding to users' needs and making an optimum  use of the country's available resources,
through the National Agricultural Research Fund;
(b)     improve the efficiency of Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricole (ISRA) and of the Inslitil
de Technologie Alimentaire (ITA), through improving their scientific and maniagerial capabilities:
rehabilitating their infrastructure and upgrading their equipment;
(c)    establish extension services accountable to producers and responsive to their needs through
contractual arrangements;
(d)    improve producer organizations' ability to provide services to their members to access inputs,
credit and marketing and to make their voice heard in the decision-making processes;
(e)    focus the Ministries' services on their regulatory, policy-making and monitoring functions,
strengthen their capabilities in these domains, and devolve the services to the regions.



Page 4
3. Key Project performance indicators and triggersfor tle second phase
A joint Government/World Bank/IFAD evaluation will determine the extent to which the above
objectives have been fulfilled. For each component, the key indicators for this first phase and trigger
conditions for the second phase are as indicated in the following table:
Project Development           Key performance indicators and triggers for the second phase
Objectives
Establish an effective national  - NARF is a legal entity governed by private law with terms of
agriculture and agroprocessing    reference satisfactory for the Association.
research system
- NARF functions satisfactorily according to agreed upOnI policies and
procedures, certified by an independent management audit.
- Two other donors contribute to NARF, for a minimum of 10%.
Improve ISRA and ITA         - ISRA and ITA are operating satisfactorily according to their various
efficiency                     management and organizational manuals.
-Financial management and accounting systems are functioning
adequately as reflected in the annual audit reports, which are
unqualified, except for minor qualifications.
-At least 15 ISRA projects and 5 ITA projects have been approved by
NARF. Four of these are joint ventures.
Establish extension services    -The government holds a maximum of 49% of ANCAR's share;
accountable to producers and
responsive to their needs    -ANCAR successfully established a decentralized extension service,
through contractual           with contractual arrangements with producer organizations, over at
arrangements                  least 142 rural communes;
-Producer organizations contribute to ANCAR's operating costs
(including  salaries),  either  directly  or  through  contractual
arrangements at the local level;
-An evaluation of staff performance has been carried out after a two-
year probation period and for each staff, a decision has been made
(contract renewal or redeployment to the civil service).
-All ANCAR staff is contractual.
-ANCAR operates according to satisfactory policies and procedures, in
particular as far as the financial management and accounting system is
concerned, as reflected in the audit reports.



Page 5
Project Development           Key performance indicators and triggers for the second phase
Objectives
Improve producer              Satisfactory functioning of the Demand-Driven Rural Services Fund,
organizations' ability to     with at least 142 local and  10 regional committees effectively
provide services to their    functioning and 5 subprojects approved per committee;
members to access inputs,
credit and marketing and to   The National Rural People Coun1cil for Consultation and Cooperation
make their voice heard in the   (CNCR) contributes to the funding of its own operating costs
decision-making processes;    (excluding its public service functions) out of its own resources
POs provide at least 75% of the services requested by their members
All POs requests for technology are taken into account either in
research proposals or extension programs
Focus the Ministries' services   The agreed upon redeployment of personnel is completed, including for
on their regulatory, policy-  the personnel currently seconded to projects and to the Societes
making and monitoring         Regionales de Developpenient Ruiral (SRDR).
functions and strengthen their
capabilities in these domains    The extensioni mandate of the SRDRs and ANCAR has been redefined
on the basis of an external evaluation including the cost-efficiency of
each structure, beneficiaries satisfaction and relevance of extension
services in order to decide on the institutional modalities for carrying
out extension services.
The Ministries focus only on their regulatory, policy-making and
monitoring functions.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS docutment nurm7ber: 17269-SE.                 Date of latest CAS discussion: January 1998.
In contrast with most African countries, the agricultural sector (including forestry, livestock and fisheries)
accounts for only 20 percent of GDP. Agriculture is, however, the main occupation of 60 percent of the
population. A large portion of foreign exchange earnings comes from the agricultural sector, with
groundnut exports ranking third to fish exports and tourism.
Despite the limited natural resource base and adverse agro-climatic conditions, the agricultural sector
offers a substantial source of growth and employment creation, especially when considering all the
backward- and forward-linkages associated with agricultural production. The potential for productivity
increase in the rainfed sector, which occupies 95 percent of the total farming population, can be achieved
at a relatively low cost: technologies exist that require limited amounts of modern, imported inputs.
The core objective of the CAS is economic growth with social sustainability and targeted poverty
reduction. Poverty is essentially a rural phenomenon: 45% of the rural households are poor, while 80
percent of poor households live in rural areas. Over the last two decades, rural poverty has deepened, as
agricultural production stagnated, while rural population was increasing by more than 2 percent per
annum. This resulted in an estimated reduction of agricultural production per capita of rural population
of some 40 percent since the beginning of the 1970's. Poverty is not only the result of lack of economic



Page 6
opportunities but also of the lack of capacity of poor people to make their voices heard and to articulate
their demand vis-a-vis the actors and service agencies that regulate rural production activities.
Increasing the income and well being of the rural poor will be closely related to improvements in
agricultural productivity and sustainable increases in agricultural production, both for home-consumption
and marketing. The Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program will contribute to the
CAS poverty alleviation objective in two ways: (i) by accelerating technological changes and generating
sustained productivity increases through accountable and cost-effective agricultural services institutions,
responsive to the needs of producers, especially the poorest producers, most of whom are women; and (ii)
by empowering producers and strengthening the capacity of their organizations, so that they can
effectively articulate their demands and ensure that public services respond to their needs.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.
Recent trends. Although statistics are not reliable, there is little doubt that agricultural production has
stagnated or even regressed since the beginning of the decade.  The competitiveness of the sector
improved since the parity change of the CFA in January 1994, but the supply response appears to have
been more muted than in other countries of the CFA  zone.  While pockets of dynamism  exist
(horticultural crops), there has been little sign of increased production/intensification, neither for the main
cash crops of cotton and groundnuts, nor in the best endowed regions in terms of rainfall (except for Sine
Saloum). Irrigated rice production in the Senegal river basin, which has received extremely costly
investments over the last three decades, is confronted withi serious structural constraints that need to be
fully addressed if it is to ever compete with imports from Asia.
Constraints.
(a)  Natural resources. Agriculture is predominantly rainfed and production is characterized by low
input, low output technologies. Annual rainfall is low and irregular. Soils are generally of poor
quality, lacking organic matter and important micro-nutrients, and prone to rapid degradation if
inadequately managed. Water and biomass resources are limited and fragile. A crucial issue,
which will affect future agricultural development, is the increasing degradation of natural
resources (soil and rangeland degradation, loss of forest cover, decapitalization of marine
resources and lowering of water table). The limited natural resource base and its degradation is
one of the causes of agricultural stagnation or even decline in some areas which have been
particularly over-exploited in the past. The Groundnut Basin is a particularly striking example
of a region where the decline and degradation have been severe. The climatic risk is also a
major factor in sustained production and productivity increase.  The effect of a drought
reverberates for many years by its negative impact on productive assets and on the behavior of
farmers who select low risk/low productivity production systems.
(b)  Economic Reforms.  Over the past decade, albeit slowly and with considerable internal
resistance, the Government has reduced its omnipresence and support to private monopolies in
input pricing and distribution, imports of agricultural products and inputs, and processing and
marketing of agricultural products. However, the sector is not yet completely liberalized. The
State is still involved in some sub-sectors. Public and private monopoly situations still exist,
albeit through covert forms-for example in the fertilizer industry and imports-thereby
reducing farmers' income and affecting their incentives and ability to invest. Exporters still face
a multitude of regulatory hurdles that limit their ability to penetrate increasingly competitive
export markets.
(c)  Institutional Reforms. It is now official policy that the State should focus on providing a policy
environment supportive of private sector development and on the provision of public goods



Page 7
(basic social services and infrastructure, environmental protection). Progress has been made:
producer organizations have recently emerged as credible interlocutors of the State and
decentralization  is gradually  empowering  local governments and  rural communities to
participate in the management of their resources and development.1 The 1995 Agricultural
Development Policy Letter, as well as the more recent Agricultural Strategy Document
(Docziiient d'Orientation Straligique), clearly state that tile responsibility for several functionis
that were previously exclusively within the Ministry's mandate will now  be shared with
producers' associations.  However, much remains to be done to restructure public agencies.
Changinig their centralist and dirigiste culture towards a supportive role will further strengthen
farmers organizations and provide a concrete contenit to the on-goinig decentralization process.
Also, the institutionial framework for access to and managemenit of natural resources-such as
lanid, water, and forests-needs to be revised to improve productivity and ensure conservation.
(d)   Weak producer orgaanizationis. Though producer organizations are organized up to the national
level, they remaini by and large not as effective as they could be. Their weaknesses stem from
managerial and organiizationial difficulties:  they lack well trained human resources; their
capacity to commllun.icate with their members and to keep informationi flowing in both directions
is weak: and they lack finanicial leverage. In the case of producer organizations which have
been goverinmenit- or donor-indticed, their leaders' legitimacy is often in doubt.
(e)   Access to basic services. Farmers' adoption of improved technologies has been limited. The
research system-lacking efficiency and responsiveness to farmers' concerns-has been slow to
develop techinologies appropriate to farmers' socio-economic and agroecological conditions. A
largely unlresponisive public extensioni service ineffectively disseminates available technologies.
While a large percentage of farmers are women, agricultuiral services are not readily available
for them. Farmers, especially women, have difficulties accessing credit and agricultural inputs.
Rtural populations' access to basic education and health services and to clean water is very low,
and will need to be greatly improved if Senegalese farmers are to become more productive and
open to technological innovations and market opportunities.
(f)   Access to markets. Because of the poor network of rural/feeder roads, large tracts of rural areas
are not adequately linked to markets, thus hindering farmers from  fully exploiting the new
opportunities offered by increased urban demand and export possibilities.
3. Sector issues to be a(ldressed by thle project and strategic chtoices.
In agreement with the government, the focus of Bank assistance under the proposed Program will be on:
(i) institutional reforms, including the restructuring of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, to
make agricultural services accountable, more demand-driven and cost-efficient and to transfer or share
with the private sector and civil society a number of functions; (ii) generation and transfer of technologies
to improve agricultural productivity in a sustainable way, diversify, and conserve the natural resource
base; (iii) empowerment and capacity-building of producer organizations.
To date, implementation of these policies has resulted in the liberalization of rice imports in October 1995, the
privatization of the rice mills previously operated by Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du
Fleuve (SAED), and the liquidation of the Price Stabilization Agency (CPSP) in February 1996. The Goundnut Oil
Company (SONACOS) was offered for sale (unsuccessfully) in December 1995 and the groundnut price stabilization fund
was restructured during the same period.  With respect to the cotton subsector, Cotton Development Company
(SODEFITEX) is being reorganized to separate its public service activities from its agro-industrial activities and to bring
the agency under common law status. In the medium term, the objective is that SODEFITEX should retain only the agro-
industrial activities strictly related to cotton, which will allow for privatization.



Page 8
A continuation of previous research and extension projects? The operation was first intended to be a
continuation and a merging of the Agricultural Extension and Agricultural Research 1I Projects. The
mid-term reviews and implementation completion reports for these projects had identified one of the
problems as being the lack of accountability of the research and extension institutionis to producers and
lack of responsiveness to their needs. Failure to involve the maii users in the technology generationi and
dissemination process had led to several inefficiencies, among them: (i) the generation and extension of
technologies that do not correspond to the diversity of socio-economic and agroecological constrainits
and fail to take into account an important source of informationi, farmers' indigenous knowledge; and (ii)
delays in technology dissemination and adoption.
A three-pronged approach to agricultural services with a "support to producer organizations" component.
To address the above issue, the Program was designed from the start to bring together technology users
and suppliers, ulider a three-pronged approacih to agricultural services, based on collaboration of producer
organizations, research, and extensioni. Producer organizationis have a crucial role to play in defining the
research and extensioni agenda and priorities, in accelerating the diffusion of information and in providing
services to producers to facilitate technology adoption. Therefore, they can bring about more demand-
driven and accoulitable agricultural services. However, producer organizationis will need support to build
up their capacity before they can play an effective role in the tecihnology developmenit and diffusion
process, whilch is why a support-to-producer organiizationis component was introdIuced.
Support to producer organizationis: Unit withini the extension services or social fund? To implement the
support to producer organizationis program (PO), the idea of having a unit within the extension services
that will provide technical support to PO's was considered and rejected. As part of capacity-building, it is
essential to empower producers to ma;ke their own decisions as to the type of support they need and
whiich supplier will provide this support to themil. Hence the decision to finance the support to PO's
tilrougih a social fund mechanism: the Demand-Driven Rural Services Fund (DDRSF), with an
indepenidenit private agency (NGO or other supplier of services) as a facilitator (See Annex 2).
Extensioni Services. Lessons learned from the previous project lead to the conclusion that the present
institutional set up (i.e. many agencies involved in extension, with extension being for most of them a
secondary activity) had lead to the suboptimal performances observed. Hence, the decision was made to
create one single umbrella institution for extension services. The next question was the legal status of the
umbrella institution. Making the institutions accountable to the beneficiaries was a major consideration
that lead to rejecting two options for the legal status. One option was the creation of a Directorate for
extension services within the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), the other was to create the National Agency
for Agricultural and Rural Counsel (ANCAR) as a public agency. Both options meant that the extension
services will remain under the public service, albeit with more autonomy from the ministry with the
second option.
The status finally chosen, that of a societe a participation publique majoritaire, allows for the
participation of stakeholders in ANCAR's capital (up to 49%), in its governing bodies and in the
financing of its recurrent costs. This should not only ensure accountability but also the sustainable
funding of the Agency, provided beneficiaries are satisfied.  It also allows the beneficiaries to
progressively take over the control of the agency through the buying of capital shares. Hence it is
envisioned that ANCAR will evolve to become a sociefe ai participation publique minoritaire at the end
of the first phase of the Program. This status was also adopted to give ANCAR the maximum degree of
autonomy, which it will not have had under the other options. ANCAR will have the flexibility to adopt
business-like management practices, including hiring staff under contractual arrangements and a system
of personnel incentives and promotion that will reward best performance and ensure accountability to
users.



Page 9
Research. Financing only research on agricultural production under ISRA, as it had been done under the
first two projects was considered unsatisfactory. In Senegal, the opportunities for added-value and
growth in agroprocessing may be relatively important compared with productivity gains in production.
Thus, the Implementation Completion report of the Agricultural Research 11 Project recommended to
invest simultaneously in postharvest and production research.  Hence, the inclusion of  the Food
Technology Institute (ITA) under the Program.
Perhaps the most important institutional reforms introduced was to step away from the national research
institutes (ISRA  and ITA) as the exclusive buLilding blocks for inproving research capacity and
performance. The challenge for Senegal is to determine how to exploit the complementarities between
the various actors involved in researchr-mainly the University, agricultural schools and NGOs-so as to
allow additional scientific skills and resources to be tapped and therefore develop a well-articulated
research system. Toward this end, the Program will separate the function of research funding from that
of execution, through the creation of the NARF. A separate funding body has a number of advantages
over the direct funding of an executing institute:
(i)    it allows for effective involvement of research users and stakeholders in priority setting
and resource allocation; thus it interests themil in funding research and provides an
enablinig environiienit for sustailiable fuLidinig;
(ii)   it allows other research suppliers (other than ISRA and ITA) to have access to funding,
tihus it ensures an optimal utilization of scarce human and physical resources, provides
the financial tool for building a national agricultural research system; and promotes
collaboration among all entities involved;
(iii)   it improves the scientific quality and relevance of research activities through scientific
rigor in proposal selection and implementation through external control and reviews, void
of conflicts of interests;
(iv)   it ensures that funding is effectively allocated to the team of researchers whose proposal
has been approved;
(v)    it enforces researchers' accountability for results.
Restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture. The restructuring of the Ministry was not part of the Project
design at first. During the course of project preparation, it appeared that it could not be left aside for
several reasons. The creation of ANCAR introduced a new institution within the complex Senegalese
institutional arrangement. Other parastal agencies such as the Extension Services Agency for the Peanut
Basin (SODEVA), SAED and SODEFITEX also have a mandate for supplying extension services in their
geographic area. SODEVA was expected to close down as a result of the creation of ANCAR, the
mandates of SAED and SODEFITEX were expected to be revised, not only as a result of ANCAR's
creation, but also because of the Ministry redefining its public service function, and transferring or
sharing many functions to civil society and the private sector.
In addition to redefining the institutional context, there were additional considerations for adding this
component. Since the overall objective of the Program is to improve the performances and responsive-
ness of agricultural services as a whole, supporting the Ministry's effort to strengthen its public services
functions and to transfer its other functions, appeared as an essential complement to the other
components. Finally, under the restructuring, the Ministry was expected to relocate its services to the
regions, in line with the recently adopted laws on decentralization. The Bank should be supporting these
efforts.



Page 10
4. Program description and performance triggers for s ubsequent loans
The Program will support the following components:
(a)    Research funiding, through the NARF. NARF will finanice priority research themes on a selective
basis and Linder contractual arrangemenit. Research proposals will come mainly from ISRA, with
a research mandate in agricultural production, and ITA with a research mandate in post-harvest
and agroprocessing, but also from the Universities, NGO's, or other instittites, or from two or
more of these instittitions presentinig a joinlt proposal.
(b)    Research instituite development (ISRA and ITA). The Program will support ISRA and ITA
instittitionial development and investments (civil engineerinig, traininig and consultant services,
equipmiient purchase).
(d)    Agricultiural Extensionl . The Program will invest in extension activities through ANCAR.
(e)    Support to producer organizationis (POs), implemented by ASPRODEB. The Program  will
strengthen producer organiizationis throughi trainig, communication and supporting access to
basic services.
(f)    Strengthening public service functions of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock.
IDA will commit to the second credit only when the GOL will have achieved the agreed key milestones.
(See section A. 3). For the third credit, the key indicators will be that the institutional reforms achieved
duiring the first phase have been consolidated during the second phase and that the institutions involved
fuLictioni according to their manual of procedures. Since APLs are intended to be flexible, adjustments to
the milestonles, loan amounts and timing are likely to change as the Program unfolds. Before committing
subsequenit credits, however, there will be a joint Government/lFAD/IDA appraisal to determine whether
agreed key performance indicators are satisfied and sector priorities remain valid.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project contponents (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown).
The proposed operation (the project) will be the first phase of the long-term Program (10 years). The
project will support the same components as the 10-year Program, with the specific first phase activities
as described below.
(a)   National research funding. The Project will help establish a National Agricultural Research Fund
(NARF) and begin research proposal funding.
(b)    Research institute development.  The Project will support ISRA  and ITA  institutional
development and sustainability through:
(i)   improving ISRA's and ITA's management of financial resources to ensure timely
delivery of funds to research teams;



Page 1 1
(ii)   streamlining research infrastructure to reduce recurrent costs through consolidation and
closing down of non essential substations and laboratories, improving infrastructure and
equipment maintenance, and upgrading laboratory and station equipment;
(iii)   improving personnel qualifications, through higher education degree training, as well as
short-term training.
Toward this objective, for both ISRA and ITA, the Project will finance rehabilitation of
infrastructure to complement and consolidate the infrastructure developmenit of the predecessor
project.  The Project will provide field equipmenit for stations, scientific equipment for
laboratories, computer equipment, vehicles, and funids for training.
(c)    Agricultural Extension. The Project will help create the ANCAR, a semi-public agency co-
managed by the government and producer organizations with mechanisms to guarantee
accountability to producers. The Project will support part of the operating costs of extension
activities and all investments in humani resources (training and capacity-building, both on
techinical aspects as well as communication and extension methods) and physical infrastructure,
mainly rehabilitation of buildinigs, computer equipment and vehicles.
(d)    Support to producer organizations (PO's).  The Project, implemented by ASPRODEB, will
provide traininig, means of communication, techiical and organizational support to POs to assist
them in providing services to their members and strengthien their capabilities to organize, manage
and negotiate.  The objective of the support is that producer organizations acquire more
professional capabilities and financial strength, to make them better able to: (i) provide services
to producers, to help them access inputs, credit or marketing; (ii) participate in adaptive research;
(iii) disseminiate information on technologies on production and marketing; and (iv) be effective
partners in the agricultural technology and transfer system through their capacity to diagnose,
aggregate, prioritize, and articulate their members' needs and constraints.
The Project will do so through a Demand-Driven Rural Services Fund (DDRSF), available to
producer organizations at the local level on a matching grant basis. In addition to training and
organizationial support, the DDRSF will help producer organizations to: (i) have access to
techinical and management advice to assist them in the implementation of economic activities (for
example, specialized agricultural technical skills; preparation of the documentation to access
credit; micro-enterprise management); and (ii) undertake R&D activities jointly with researchers
and extension agents and have access to seed money to facilitate the adoption of innovations on a
matching grant basis.
(e)    Strengthening public service functions of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock. The
project will assist the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock to: (i) devolve services to regional
directorates; (ii) strengthen policy formulation and monitoring and evaluation functions by
providing support to the Directorate of Policy Analysis of the Ministry of Agriculture and to the
Policy Unit of the Ministry of Livestock; (iii) provide support to the technical Directorates of the
Ministries to perform their regulatory functions; and (iv) provide support to further privatize both
veterinarian and pest control functions, as well as to help organize a network of certified seed
production based upon specialized producer organizations.



Page 12
First Phase Project Costs (in US$ millions)
Components                Indicative    IDA      Percent     IFAD      Percent
Costs   finanicing    IDA      Financingu  IFAD
financed              financed
I. NARF                                   4.5        3.7       82          0.7        16
2. ISRA                                    6.4        3.2      47           1.2       14
3. ITA                                     2.3        0.9      39          0.2        11
4. ANCAR                                  11.0        7.5      69           1.2       12
5. Producer Organizationis                 4.9       3.5       73          0.9        18
6. Ministry of Agriculture                9.3        3.3       35          1.0        11
7. Ministry of Livestock                   6.0       2.8       47          0.7        12
8. DDI                                    0.7        0.5       72          0.1        18
PPF                                    2.0        2.0      100
Total                     47.1       27.4       58          6.0        13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms suepportedl by the Project
(a)    Research autonomy and accouLntability throuLgl separation of funding from implementation. The
Project will help the Govermiienit of Senegal (GOS) set up an autollomllous NARF which will be
managed independently from the implementinig institutes. The NARF will become a foundation
or any other legal entity governed by private law by the end of year 2001. This is a trigger
conditioni for the second phase of the Project. (see above, B3. strategic choices).
(b)    Privatization of the extension services through the creation of ANCAR. ANCAR's legal status is
that of a sociLj e; parlicipalion publiquie 1n7aoritaire (a public/private agency with the State
holdinig a majority in the capital). Durinig the first plhase, the composition of the capital will be
the following: Government of Senegal: 51 percent; producer organizations: 28 percent; rural
communies: 7 percent; private companies: 14 percent. ANCAR Board will have four government
representatives, thlree representatives from producer organizations, three from the private sector,
and two from the collectivites locales. It is expected that the government will become a minority
sharelholder and that producer organizations, the private sector and civil society will take over the
ownerslhip of ANCAR at the end of the first three years of its implementation. The Agency will
theni become a societe a participation publique minoritaire. The evaluation at the end of the first
phase will determine the trigger condition for the second phase of the Program.
After an initial two-year period, all ANCAR staff will be contractual. Initially, staff will be
recruited for a fixed probation period of two years. As the majority of ANCAR's personnel will
probably be civil servants, they will be seconded from the public service during the first two
years. At the end of the two-year period, staff performance will be evaluated, before the decision
be made to recruit them. At that time, civil servants may decide to either join ANCAR
definitively, in that case they will have to resign from the civil service, or else return to their
Ministry of origin. The contractualisation of ANCAR staff at the end of the initial phase is a
trigger condition for the second phase.
Extension activities will be undertaken on the basis of annual or multiannual contracts between
ANCAR, on the one hand, and the producer organizations and/or the rural communes on the
other. The contract will specify the content of the extension activities, the expected results, the
operating budget and the contribution of the producer organizations or rural commune to
financing.



Page 13
(c)    Reorganization, transferring or sharing of the Ministries' functions. SODEVA is in the process
of being closed down. The share of responsibilities between the various parastal agencies
(SODEFITEX, SAED and Societe de Developpement Agricole et Industrielle du Senegal
(SODAGRI)), the Ministries and the newly created ANCAR will be redefined by the end of the
first phase. By that time, the parastal agencies and the Ministries will have retained only those
functions which cannot be transferred or shared with the private sector or the civil society.
Hence, the cotton-production related activities of SODEFITEX will have been privatized. Some
of SAED irrigated perimeter and equipment maintenance functionls will have been privatized or
transferred to producer organizations. By the end of the first phase, if ANCAR performs
successfully, all of SAED and SODEFITEX extension activities will have been transferred to
ANCAR. The Ministry of Agriculture will have privatized the part of the pest control services
which can be privatized. The privatization of veterinary medicine of the Ministry of Livestock
will be completed. The Project will provide training for staff of the Ministries wanting to set up
their owIn private services, as well as the finanlcial and technical support to help them get
established. All these refonns are expected to take place during the first plhase of the Program
and are trigger conditions for the second phase.
(d)    Producer organizations' empowerment. In addition to the fact that producer organizations will
become the main shareholders of ANCAR after the first phase, the main instrument for producer
organizations empowerment will be the DDRSF, a financing mechanism similar to the Demand-
Driven Rural Investment Fund. This Fund will be accessible to regional or local level producer
organiizations on the basis of the presentation of a capacity-building project. The project will be
reviewed by a local or regional level committee made up of producer organization
representatives. The Committee will make the decision to fund the proposal, on a matching grant
basis. It is envisioned that this mechanism will support capacity-building, while leaving the
decision-makinlg with regard to the content and the providers of the services to the beneficiaries
themselves. The process, from the design of the proposal to the selection by the committee, will
be facilitated by a NGO.
(e)    Decentralization.  The Project will help the ministries devolve their services to regional
directorates. In addition, ANCAR will be a fully decentralized agency, operating out of 10
regional directorates with the appropriate financial and administrative autonomy. The main
functions of the headquarters will be to provide support to the regional directorates in the
following areas: (i) R&D methodology, (ii) training (communication extension methods, and
agricultural technologies), (iii) ex-post financial management and accounting control, (iv) human
resources management procedures for personnel annual evaluation and career development, (v)
establishment of a referential data bank on agricultural technology and results of on-farm
research, and (vi) overall extension program monitoring and evaluation. Decision-making
regarding the content of the extension activities will be made at the rural community levels, so
that the extension activities can be tailored to the specific needs and capacities of farmers and
their communities.
3. Benefits and target population.
Rural poverty alleviation
With 45% of the rural population being below the poverty line, earning most of their revenues from
farming, the Program will contribute to broad-based poverty alleviation in the country. It will do so by
supporting technological change and innovation in crop, livestock, fishery and forestry production and in
agroprocessing, thereby improving returns to all production factors, including land and labor.
Strengthened producer organizations will be able to provide better services to their members to facilitate



Page 14
technology adoption, by improving access to inputs and facilitating marketing.  The participatory
approach and fine-tuning of technical recommendations will help address the needs of the poorest
farmers, many of them are women. Indeed, rural women who make up over 60% of the farming
population and are often the major providers of their families will particularly benefit. Increased incomes
for women will improve household food-security and well-being, as women spend most on their earnings
on their families, especially on their children.
Capacity building
Through its producer organizations component, the Program will invest in social capital, strengthening
grassroot organizations capacity to negotiate with actors and institutions that regulate: (i) access to
services, (ii) the functioning of input and output markets; and (iii) social access to means of production.
Strengthening local civil society capacity will help influence the processes through which value derived
from rural production activities is distributed and used, as well as the extent to which it is retained in local
communities. Empowering grassroot organizations is a social instrument for rural people to draw
themselves out of poverty.
Improved governance
Strong grassroot associations suclh as producer organizations improve governance: they foster more
effective and transparent public services at all levels. User's participation in the decision-making and
resource allocation of research and extension institutions will improve the transparency in priority setting
and resource use.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.
Three technical ministries (Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, and Scientific Research) as well as
iSRA, ITA, NARF, ANCAR, ASPRODEB and the Directorate of Debt and Investment (DDI) of the
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning are concerned with the Program. General guidance for the
implementation of the Program and for monitoring its results will come under a National Coordination
and Monitoring Committee integrated with representatives of these institutions. The terms of reference
and composition of the National Coordination and Monitoring Committee will be adopted through an
arrete.
Committees with similar composition will also be established at the regional levels. These Committees
will provide the framework for research, extension, producers organizations and the Ministry services to
come together to program, review and take stock of their joint activities. Annually, in addition to
reviewing implementation and coordination issues, the National Coordination and Monitoring
Committee will review each agency's work program, before they are presented to IDA, the other donors
involved, and the respective governing bodies of each agency.
Executing agencies
Seven executing agencies are involved, each one of them implementing a separate component: (i) NARF
(Research funding); (ii) ISRA (Research institute development); (iii) ITA (Research institute
development); (iv) ANCAR (Extension); (v) ASPRODEB (Support to producer organizations); (vi)
Ministry of Agriculture and (vii) Ministry of Livestock (Strengthening key ministerial functions). Each of
the executing agencies has a well-defined program and budget, corresponding to one component.
Therefore, component implementation is completely delineated to ensure maximum flexibility. In
addition, the DDI will ensure adequate financial implementation of the Project. Annex 2 presents the
organizational details of each of these agencies and the activities they will carry out under the Project.



Page 15
Research Funding through NARF. NARF was established under the Ministry of Agriculture but will be
privately managed. It is expected that NARF will become an entity governed by private law during the
course of the first phase.
Research Institute Developnient.. The Institutes concerned are iinplemnenting the Instituites concerned.
ISRA and ITA are public agencies with the legal status of etablissemnent public c; caractire scientifique et
technique.
Extension. ANCAR will implement the extensioni activities. It is a public/private corporation with the
legal status of societe c; pairticipationi pubvliqte inajoritaire to become a societe e participation publique
ninoritaire after the first phase of the Project.
The suppport to prochzicer organi:ations component will be implemenited by the Association Senegalaise
polar Ici Promtotioni dles Petits Projets dle DL;velo)pemIeit i lei Base (ASPRODEB). ASPRODEB has NGO
status and is integrated with  13 national federations of producer organizations or producer-related
federationls 2. ASPRODEB was originally created to manage, through AGEP (Agence cle gestion de
projet) tle IDA/IFAD cofinanced Small Rural Operations II Project (IDA Cr. 1992, IFAD Loan SRS-
01 80-SE) whichi will terminiate on Junle 30, 1999.
The strengtheing7 Qf Min7istries 'fufnCtiOnS will be implemented by the technical ministries concerned, that
is the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Livestock.
5. Accournting,A II(iting antdReporting.
Each implemiienitinig agency will have a fiianlcial and accounting managemenit system -in place and
certified by an indepenident auditor before credit effectiveness, except for ISRA, for which this is a
disbursemenit condition.
ISRA is puttilng in place an improved financial management and accounting system and will have to be
restructured financially before receiving IDA funding (condition of component disbursement).
As part of Project preparation, ITA is recruiting a financial management and accounting firm which will
be responsible for assuring the quality of ITA accounts and financial management for the first two years,
helping the Institute recruit staff (if necessary) and training accounting staff.
ANCAR will put in place, with the support of an international accounting firm, a financial management
system, including cost accounting (by activities and regions, in order to implement decentralization and to
keep track of contracts with producer organizations and rural communities). The accounting firm will be
responsible for producing an opening balance, recruiting financial management staff and accountants, and
training them in the system. It will be expected to ensure the quality of the financial statements of
2    These 13 federations are the following: "'La Federation nationale des organisations non-gouvernementales du Senegal"
(FONGS). a federation of multi-commodity small-holders; "La  Fedration nationale des groupements d'interet
economique des horticulteurs" (Vegetable and fruit growers); "La Federation nationale des groupements d'interet
economique des pecheurs" (fishermen and fish processors); "La Federation nationale des groupements d'interet
economique des eleveurs" and "l'Union nationale des cooperatives d'eleveurs du Senegal" (livestock producers); "La
Federation nationale des groupements de promotion feminine du Senegal" (women associations); "I'Union nationale des
cooperatives agricoles du Senegal" (groundnut growers); "'Union nationale des cooperatives d'exploitants forestiers du
Senegal" and "La Federation nationale des organismes d'exploitants forestiers" (wood-cutters and charcoal makers); "Le
Comite national interprofessionnel de l'horticulture" (all vegetable production stakeholders);  "La Federation des
producteurs de banane de Sedhiou" (banana and plantain growers); "La Federation des unions des groupements d'interet
economique de Ngallenka"; "l'Union des groupements d'interet ecomomique des revendeuses de poisson" (fish traders);
and "Association nationale des presidents de communautes rurales", (association of the Presidents of rural communities).



Page 16
ANCAR for the first two years of operation and will be released of this responsibility once these
statements have been audited and the recommendations of the independent auditor have been
implemented. The Project will become effective once the accounting firn is in place and the manual of
accounting procedures has been adopted by the ANCAR Board.
All agencies will maintain their accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IASs)
to reflect their operations and financial positions and will have the accounts (includinig Special Accounts
and Statements of expenditures) audited, in accordance with the lASs, by a firm of independent external
auditors acceptable to IDA. Recruitment of such a firm on a one year renewable contract for each
implementing agency is an effectiveness condition. Assuranices were obtained at negotiations that the
audited accounlts and the auditors' report, including the Management Letter, and a statement as to whether
or not Bank funds had been used for their intenided purpose, will be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of the fiscal year of each agency.
By September 30 of each year, starting in 1999, each implementing agency will submit to their Board and
their respective ministries, with a copy to IDA, their annual work programs and budgets. The report
formiat will adequately portray activities and unit costs, and provide the basis for proper management for
each implemeinting agency and operation of a sound accouL1tillg system. The budgetary proposals will
include quarterly cash flow statements.
Each participating agenicy will submit semi-annual reports and management accounts to their Board
and/or their supervising ministry, showing budgeted and actual expenditures, statements of progress
achieved and the objectives for the forthcoming quarter. Semi-annual reports will contain summaries of
to-date expenditLures and use of funds by source, plus a forecast of withdrawal of IDA loan proceeds by
quarter for the forthcomiinlg year.
During negotiations, based on an assessment of capabilities, the Government agreed  to recruit a
disbursement specialist to strengthen the capacities of the Direction de la Dette et des Investissements of
the Ministry of Economics, Finances and Planning. This person will: (i) set up a data base for the budget
of the seven components and monitor the expenses against the budget; (ii) monitor and reconcile the
special accounts; (iii) check the statement of expenditures for conformity of presentation and eligibility of
expenditures; (iv) help the implementation agencies with the preparation of withdrawal requests; (v)
monitor the timely submission of the audit reports.
Procurement arrangements. Bank procurement guidelines will apply. Procurement plans for goods and
civil works will specify source of funds, timing and procurement methods (whether ICB or other) and
will be accompanied by an updated Procurement Schedule for the remaining life of the Project. For sub-
projects of the Producer Organizations component, under the "Services Fund" category, the Guidelines
for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-based Investments will apply (Annex 6).
During negotiations, based on an assessment of current capacities, the Government agreed on a program
to strengthen various entities handling procurement activities. Basically, each entity will receive support
and guidance from a procurement specialist hired by the Ministry of Economics, Finance and Planning
for the project and working out of the Direction de la Dette et des Investissements. In addition to the
provision of support when needed the procurement specialist will have to clear all procurement decisions
and documents sent to the Bank. Each entity will be reinforced through: (i) the recruitment of qualified
staff and ad hoc short-term consultant services, as required; and (ii) in-service procurement training of
staff.
The Program will assist eligible producers' organizations (PO) through Sub-projects funded in the form of
grants payable in tranches as described in the Sub-project management manual, and under contractual



Page 17
arrangements between POs and ASPRODEB. Financial will be carried out by an independent firm --
selected by ASPRODEB in accordance with the procedures applicable for consultants -- annually to
assess that completed sub-projects have been implemented according to sub-project proposal and contract
(See Annex 6). Similarly, technical audits will be carried out by independent agencies (NGO's or other
supplier of services).
The Program will assist researchers to carry out research activities through contractual arrangements
between NARF and the research institutions where the researchers operate.   Research projects'
eligibility, review and selection procedures will be described in the Research project management manual
of NARF.  Projects will be funded in the form of grants payable in tranches. NARF will carry out
financial and technical audits, with the help of specialized consultants regularly, as required in the
Research project management manual.



Page 1 8
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection. See "Sector issues to be adl(lressed by the
project and strategic choices" on page 6.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (conipleted,
ongoing and plannel):
Sector issue                    Project                 Latest Supervisioni (PSR)
Ratings
(Bank-finianiced projects only)
Implementationi  Development
Progress       Objective
(I P)          (DO)
Bank-financed
Agricultuiral Diversification   Agricultuiral  Researcil  II  (Cr.  S             S
and Intensificationi       2107-SE). C'onhipleted
Agricultural Services Project (Cr.     U               U
2108). Compleled
Small Rural Operations 11              S               S
(Cr. 1 992-SE). Ongoing
Agricultural Policy        Agricultural SECAL                      S              S
(Cr. 2738-SE). Comipleted.
Agricultural Export Promotion          S               S
(Cr. 30170) OnIgoing
Rural Infrastructure       National   Rural  Infrastrmcture
Project (Unider preparationi)
I FAD-finaniced
Agric. Development         Agric.Development Project in            HS               S
Matam (Loan SRS-030-SE)
Village Organisation       Village Organization and                HS              HS
Management Project (Loan 315 SE)
Other development agencies
EU                         Revitalization  of the groundnut
industry
EU                         PARC   (Panafrican   campaign
against bovine disease)
AFD                        PIDAF (Interim  Program  of the
River Valley Ag. Development)
CMS (Mutual Credit for Senegal)
IFAD                       PROMERE
ADB                        PAPEL (support to livestock)
USAID                      Participatory   management   of
natural resources
IP/DO  Ratings:   HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U  (Unsatisfactory), HU  (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Page 19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project dlesign.
Two previous Bank projects are particularly relevant to the proposed Program and one ongoing one. The
Agricultural Research 11 Project (Cr. 2107-SE), the Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2108-SE), and the
Small Rural Operations 11 (Cr. 1992-SE). Under Agricultural Research II Project:  (i) noticeable
research results have been achieved in areas sucli as horticulture, livestock production, agroforestry, and
natural resources management; (ii) ISRA  headquarters were built and some infrastructure was
rehabilitated; (iii) research programming and scientific management have been strengthened; and (iv)
improved procedures for experimental station management and for equipment and infrastructure
maintenance have been introduced. Under the Agricultural Services Project: (i) staff involved in the
project have received considerable in-service training in technical matters and in extension management
principles; (ii) a number of yield increasing technical recommendations concerning crop and livestock
production and natural resource conservation have been adopted by farmers; and (iii) many farmers have
been trained in functional literacy and numeracy.
However, the impact of research oIn agricultural developmenit remained insufficient because of: (i) the
lack of a participatory approach for research design and testing; (ii) lack of accountability to producers;
and (iii) the fact that important sub-sectors such as post-harvest and agroprocessing were not included in
the investment. In addition, a number of organizational and management issues remain unresolved under
that project: (i) a civil service attitude and lack of a performance review and reward system based on
results; (ii) an overextended network of infrastrLctures (experimental stations and laboratories) that
caninot be maintained adequately; and (iii) weak financial and accounting management.
The fundamental weakness of the Agricultural Services Project was its institutional set-up. The extension
managemenit Ulnit and its Director did not have authority over the staff of the many different executing
agenicies with their multiple mandates, other than extension. This made it next to impossible to enforce
adherence to agreed work norms and principles and explains inefficiencies and the lack of supervision of
the project at different levels. Most issues mentioned by the 1993 and 1994 reviews as well as the 1995
Beneficiary Assessment remained valid at project closing: (i) lack of accountability of extension agents
to producers and insufficient use of participatory diagnosis, programming and evaluation methods; (ii)
insufficient supervision and technical back-up of front-line extension workers by subject matter
specialists and national and regional extension managers; and (iii) insufficient attention to women
producers' needs: only 12 percent of extension agent contacts were with women or mixed groups. In
addition, the beneficiary assessment emphasized that the way extension agents established and worked
with "contact groups" was problematic. One major weakness was that extension agents were not paying
enough attention to the already existing community associations or producer organizations and not
working through them in setting up their contact groups.
Under the IFAD cofinanced Small Rural Operations II Project: (i) a participatory mechanism for the
management of project resources has been put in place; (ii) private project management capacity has been
strengthened; and (iii) a process of decentralized planning and implementation of development activities
is being tested.
These lessons from previous projects have been incorporated into the project design. See "Sector issues
to be addressed by the project and strategic choices" on page 6..
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership.
The Senegalese govemment and major beneficiaries and stakeholders stand behind the institutional
reforms undertaken under the Program.  The creation of ANCAR has been decided during an
interministerial council (March 1997). A number of regional workshops have been held to gather



Page 20
feedback from users and provide information on the creation of ANCAR as a demand-driveni extension
services agency. The Forum of Federation of Producer Organizations, CNCR3, contributes to ANCAR
social capital (28%), as well as the Association of the Presidents of Rural Communes (APCR) and the
Assembly of Regional Councils (7%). The decision to create the NARF was made during a nationial level
workshop involving all major stakeholders. The preparatory wvork for NARF and the workshops were
funded by FAO and USAID. The Bank gave full support to the idea and provided feedback to the
consultant and workshop reports. The Ministry restructLring has been discussed durinig a number of
workshops at the national and regional levels and consenisus has been reached on the new directions. On
the side of producer organizationis, CNCR has also held a number of workshops at the national and
regional levels to gather feedback and ideas on the proposed componelnt.
5. Valiue add(led of Bank and IFAD  support in this project.
Besides providing the largest share of finanicial resources to implemiienit the Program, the World Bank has
made and will continue to make a significant contributioni to the ambitious institutionial reforms
envisioned unlder the Program, especially with regard to: (i) the creation of an autonomIIous agency for
extension services with businiess-likie manag-ement practices and the involvement of producers: (ii) the
creation of an independenit NARF; (iii) research and extensioni contractual arrangements with users;
(iv) the support to producer organizationis througll a DDRSF.
The design team has been able to draw on1 the experiences and lessons from other regions, especially: (i)
Latin America and Asia for thie NARF; (ii) experiences from Latin America and other African countries
(C6te d'lvoire) have been very useful to establish a demand-driven and accountable extension agency;
(iii) lessons from  the World Bank Research  Project: "Decentralization, fiscal systems and rural
development" were used to set-up the DDRSF. Specialized groups within the Bank (ESDAR and RDV)
were important sources of information for good practices and technical support for the institutional
reforms both for extension and research.
The ideas developed within the Bank on investing in social capital as a means to achieve sustainable
development provided the conceptual support for introducing the component on producer organizations
These ideas are now well documented in Robert Picciotto and Eduardo Wiesner "Evaluation and
Development: The  Institutional Dimension".   Two  other documents were  particularly  useful:
"Strengtheninlg National Agricultural Research Systems, Policy Issues and Good Practice" by Derek
Byerlee and Gary E. Alex, (RDV) and "Agricultural Extension and Research, Achievements and
Problems in National Systems" by Dennis L. Purcell and Jock R. Anderson (OED). The Bank team also
drew on effective partnerships with other donors and agencies, especially with the French Cooperation
and the Centre de Cooperation Internationale en Recherches Agronomiques pour le Developpement
(CIRAD) for the producer organizations component, and on USAID experiences for NARF.
IFAD has a long experience in participatory rural development and has contributed significantly to the
design of the Producer Organizations Component. Represented through Senegal's rural sector with six
ongoing investment projects, IFAD will be instrumental in facilitating the harmonization of individual
3   CNCR= Conseil National de Concertation et de Cooperation des Ruraux. CNCR is integrated with nine producers'
federations, also part of ASPRODEB: "La Feddration nationale des organisations non-gouvemementales du Senegal"
(FONGS), a federation of multi-commodity small-holders; "La Federation nationale des groupements d'int6ret
economique des horticulteurs" (Vegetable and fruit growers); "La Federation nationale des groupements d'interet
economique des pecheurs" (fishermen and fish processors); "La Federation nationale des groupements d'interet
economique des eleveurs" and "l'Union nationale des cooperatives d'eleveurs du Senegal" (livestock producers); "La
Federation nationale des groupements de promotion f6minine du Senegal" (women associations); "l'Union nationale des
cooperatives agricoles du Senegal" (groundnut growers); 'Union nationale des cooperatives d'exploitants forestiers du
Senegal" and "La Federation nationale des organismes d'exploitants forestiers" (wood-cutters and charcoal makers).



Page 21
development projects with the interventions of the present program and thus ensure complementarity of
the various initiatives in support of the rural sector
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex IV)
1. Economic (See Annex 4).
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=FCFA 12 billions at an OCIR of 12%; ERR= 19%
The analysis was carried out by standard type of farms (one or two for each of the six agroecological
zones for cropping activities) and standard types of herds (two types of herds for each of the two main
agroecological zones for livestock activities) for a total of 12 different cropping or herding situatiolls.
Overall benefits for the project were assessed by aggregating the farm budgets corresponding to each
situation. Over the life of the project, yield increases were projected to increase between 15% to 35%
depending on the zone and cropping system for cropping activities, and between 30%  to 70%  for
livestock activities, resultinig from adoption of improved practices and input use. These improvements
will be achieved only by adopting farms. Adoption rates vary from 15 to 30% depending on1 the zone and
the cropping system and from 10 to 15% for livestock activities. Every three year, overall benefits were
assumed to be reduced by 30% due to drought conditions.
The project costs considered are the incremental investment and recurrent costs, net of taxes and
subsidies for five out of seven components of the project, that is research (research fund, ISRA, ITA)
extension (ANCAR) and the support to producer organizations. The cost of supporting key ministry
functions were not taken into account in the analysis as this capacity building investment does not have a
direct economic impact. Support to producers organizations, though also a capacity building investment
was taken into account as it is considered to have an impact on adoption rates and effective technology
generation and transfer.
The economic rate of return for the program is estimated at 19%, a conservative estimate given the fact
that some benefits could not be quantified, in particular the positive impact on environment due to the
focus of the research and extension programs on soil and water management techniques, forestry and
agroforestry techniques and the pilot community range management program. Additional benefits in the
fishery and agroprocessing subsectors could not be quantified either due to lack of data. In addition,
indirect benefits derived from the positive impact of agricultural production increase on upstream and
down stream activities and on the rural economy as a whole were not quantified.
Project profitability appears extremely sensitive to target average yields and net margins (switching
values respectively of -5% and -9%) and somewhat sensitive to prices of outputs (switching value of -
18%) and adoption rate (switching value of -29%). However, because many benefits could not be taken
into account in the analysis, the NPV is probably considerably higher and less sensitive to these
parameters.
2. Impact of recurrent costs on publicfinances (see Annex 5):
The issue is whether the recurrent costs generated by the project will be satisfactorily covered under
government budget during program implementation, as well as in the longer term. The analytical
approach consisted of comparing, in the medium and long-term, the additional recurrent costs generated
by the program with estimates of primary sector public expenditures dedicated to salaries, operations, and
maintenance. The financial participation of the users in extension and research costs was integrated into
this analysis, taking into account the risks of delays and a less than expected contribution.
Under prudent hypotheses concerning the pacing of the growth of users' contribution, the share of public
agricultural expenditures going to the Program declines from 8% in year 2000 to 2% in year 2020. Even



Page 22
if the users could not increase their contribution to the level expected by year 2020. the recurrent costs for
the government will remain under 10% of agricultuiral public expendittires.
This is a very conservative estimate, since the analysis does not take into account the savings that should
result from the closing down of SODEVA and the reduction in functionl duplication between ANCAR, the
MA and the other SRDRs (SODEFITEX, SODAGRI and SAED) as far as extensionl is conceriled. Thus
it is likely that recurrent costs, as a share of agricultural public expendituires, will be less thani the above
estimates. They constitute an acceptable burden on public finances and well withill the GOS finanicial
means.
3. Technical.
An assessment of the supply and demand for agricultural techinologies was carried out for each of the
agroecological zones of Senegal through local and regional consultationis of the beneficiaries and maill
actors involved in technology transfer. Senegal has eight major agroecological zones: Senegal River
Basin, Lower and Middle Casamance, Western Senegal and Upper Casamance, Sine-salou.lil Northerin
Peanut Basin, Niayes, Sylvo Pastoral and Maritime Zones. The demand for technologies evolves arouLid
soil and water conversation techniques, short cycle varieties resistant to pest and diseases. animal
nutrition based on local products. agricultural practices, post-harvest technologies, agroforestry. small
agricultural equipment. On the supply side, an invenitory of available research results ready to be either
extended or field tested indicates that ISRA and ITA have developed, or are able to adapt techniologies
suitable for the technical challenges of each of the agroecological zones and of agroprocessing.
The Program design takes into accounlt the lessons from previous projects and supports a numiiber of
institutional reforms to address the issue of cost-efficiency. For agricultural research in particular, the
Program builds upon all human and physical resources Senegal has, by enabling otiler research providers
to have access to funding. On the investment side, civil engineering work has been kept to a minimu.liL
mainly much needed infrastructure rehabilitationi. The emphasis has been put on traininig and retooling.
4. Institutional.
The beneficiaries, through the Forum of Federation of Producer's Organizations (CNCR) have expressed
a strong interest in becoming reliable partners of agricultural services institutionis. The Govermilenit and
the beneficiaries are strongly committed to a shift from public to private management of agricultural
services and to buildinig an effective national agricultural research system  througil the separation of
research funding from research execution. User feedback will play an important role in technilcal
orientation and be a major input into the planning and monitoring process, through research and extension
contracts, and through participatory methods for diagnosis, programming and evaluation.
5. Social.
The main social issue is the extent to which women will participate and benefit from the techinology
generation and diffusion process. Under research and extension, agricultural activities that are either
solely or largely carried out by women (crop production; livestock; food processing techniques: and
utilization, storage and marketing of farm products and other off-farm income-generating activities) will
be given special attention. Research and extension on the post-harvest, value-added processing activities
that women carry out will be increased. ITA will investigate local packaging materials and work on
solutions to blockages in the production to consumption activity chain. The many technologies "in the
drawer" at ITA will be evaluated for their suitability for the activities of rural women, and those selected
will be included in the extension program. Appropriate technologies will be generated and developed
through the agricultural research sub-projects of ISRA and ITA and through testing and adaptive research
carried out with women's groups including those belonging to the Federation nationale des
Organisations non Gouvernementales du Senegal (FONGS) and to the Federation of Women
Associations.



Page 23
With regard to extension, the two main objectives are to increase the contact between extension agents
and women in the farming community and to improve the content of the messages and training given to
rural women. In order to increase women's participation, at least one third of the groups (or one third of
all farmers) contacted by each extension agent will be female. The number of female staff will be
increased to address women in groups by identifying nionitrices rutrales who will be given extra training
in agriculture and agriculture extension methodolagies so that they can work with extension agents.
Extension staff at all levels will attend workshops to raise awareness of the fundamental importance of
women in agricultural development and to train them to analyze the different needs of the social groups in
the farming community.  The training modules will be designed to ensure that women and other
disadvantaged groups are adequately diagnosed and their needs are included in research and extension
activities.
Under the support to producer organizations component, women's groups will be given special attention
in the management training courses.  Modules include literacy and numeracy, organizational and
financial management, marketing, and management of small enterprises (such as, vegetable production,
ruminant fattening, processing, and operating mills) in order to broaden their economic base away from
purely commercial activities.
6. Environmental assessment. Environmental Category      /1A    /x/B   II C
A crucial issue regarding the future of agricultural development in Senegal is the degradation of natural
resources characterized by: (i) loss of cultural practices due to demographic pressure, resulting in soil
fertility no longer being replenished; these practices, combined with severe wind and water erosion, lead
to a decline in soil fertility-estimated at three to five percent a year-and poor water retention; (ii) loss
of forest cover, declining by 1.2 percent a year; (iii) rangeland degradation; (iv) decapitalization of
marine resources due to over-exploitation; (v) soil salinization and either acidification or alkalization; (vi)
lowering of the groundwater table leading to salt water intrusion; and (vii) loss of biodiversity.
Technologies which will be generated and extended under the Program  are designed to promote
environmentally sustainable agriculture.  Agricultural research and extensions sub-projects will
emphasize soil and water management, range land management, forestry and agroforestry, and crop-
livestock-forestry interactions, and will integrate social and economic considerations.  On-farm
adaptation activities will be implemented with local communities and producer organizations as is already
the case under the test activities carried out with PPF financing. The PPF also allows the testing of
rangeland management pilot activities as part of the regional West Africa Rangeland Management
initiative. These activities will be extended under the Program.
Given Senegal's severe environmental degradation conditions, the Program has been classified under
category B. The Center for Ecological Monitoring (CSE) carried out an environmental assessment and
concluded that the Program proposed activities are in line with the National Environmental Action Plan
and will improve natural resources management. However, the environmental assessment emphasized
that for the expected positive impact to be achieved, research and extension services must effectively
associate local communities and producer organizations at all phases of the technology generation and
transfer process: diagnosis, design, implementation, evaluation, and dissemination which is precisely
what the Program will foster. CSE also highlighted the need for a policy environment conducive to the
adoption of environmentally-friendly technologies, if the Program is to have the expected positive impact
on natural resources management.
7. Participatory approach.
Overall Program Preparation. A committee comprising the beneficiaries represented by CNCR has been
set up to oversee the preparation of the Program.



Page 24
Research. ISRA and ITA prepared a strategic plan through a bottom-up approach. In each of the 10
administrative regions of Senegal, preparatory commissions were set up, involvinig research users, the
government development agencies, NGO's and, when appropriate, small agroprocessing enterprises. A
national commission comprising the same partners reviewed the strategic plan. The NARF was adopted
during a two-day national workshop involvinig all stakeeholders.
Extension. The new institutional set up for extensioni was discussed at the regional level durinig a nulimber
of workshops involving the beneficiaries and stakelholders.  A special study was condticted by an
independent NGO to assess the supply and demanid for techniologies for each agroecological zones.
Support to producer organizations. CNCR conducted nationial and regional workshiops of its uLnioins and
local associations to discuss the main features of the support to producer organlizationis componienit and
gather feedback from their grassroots organizationis.  This input was thell used in the preparationl of the
component. During these workshops, the new institutionial set Up for extensioni was also discussed.
Ministry restructuring. The proposed organizationi for the Ministry of Agriculture has been discussed
during a number of national and regional workshops involvinig mniistry staff.
F: Sustainability and Risks
Producer organizations participation  in the design of the institutional reforms, as well as their
participation in the governance of the research and extension ilstitutions, augur well for Program
sustainability. The Program will also strengthien POs' capacity to negotiate and demand responsiveness,
which should guarantee that the special features to enihanice accoulitability and client orientation will be
m-naintainied. The Government is also strongly comimlitted to the instituitionial reforms, in particular to
shifting from a public to private sector-type management for the extensioni services, and to separatilig
funding of research from executing research.
On the financial side, the participation of users in the financinig of ANCAR, at the institutional level, and
through contracts between POs, or rural commines, and ANCAR at the local level, is a guarantee for
sustainability. Direct Government financial participation will decrease after the first phase, as that of
producers and other stakeholders increases. A study is being undertaken to determine the details of this
process.



Page 25
Risk                     Risk           Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
ANCAR is a decentralized agency only on    M        Producer organizations, Regional Councils
paper.                                             and Rural Communes hold an important share
of ANCAR's capital. They should be able to
enforce decentralization.
Producer organizations and other beneficiaries    S    Support to producer organizations component
fail to take over ANCAR ownership because of       will strengthen POs'capacity to negotiate.
lack of capital and government difficulty to let
go of ANCAR's control.
Joint  Government-Producer  organizations    S    Support to producer organizations component
allocation of agricultural levies is not achieved.  will strengthen POs'capacity to negotiate.
Reluctance of ANCAR  staff to leave civil   M       Attractive work environment, job content and
service.                                            salaries compared to civil service
Extension contracts are difficult to elaborate    M  NGO's will be hired to facilitate
and implement.                                      participatory diagnosis and extension
program planning. PO's capacity will be
enhanced through the support to PO's
component.
Unqualified extension services staff, lack of   M   Large training program in technical matters
client responsiveness.                              and in communication techniques as well as a
sensitization program to the new approach to
extension will undertaken.
ISRA financial management and accounting    S    A financial management and accounting firm
system remains weak                                 will be recruited to oversee ISRA financial
management and be responsible for quality
assurance. Disbursement will occur only
after the Institute has been financially
restructured
The Bank administrative budget may not be    S    Negotiations with Country Director to obtain
sufficient to provide adequate supervision and      more than the standard administrative budget
advice to this innovative Program  involving        allowed per project, given the scope of the
seven executing agencies.                          project.
Overall risk is between moderate and
substantial
G: Main Credit Conditions
Agreements to be reached and recommendations.
During negotiations, agreements have been obtained on the following:
(a)    a single Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Livestock will be created and
maintained.  This will be indicated in the legal texts adopting the organization of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, to become effective prior to Program
effectiveness. The total number of national directorates for Agriculture and Livestock
will not exceed the seven national directorates agreed upon at the time of appraisal.



Page 26
(b)   the Government's annual budget will contain adequate provisions to meet the
Government's share of program expenditures at the time the Program be-comes effective.
A total of 1.8 million dollar will be deposited annuially into the respective project
accounts of each implementing agency.
(c)    by September 30 of each year, starting from 1999, the Governmeit will submit to IDA
for comments a copy of each agency's draft work program and budget for the coming
year;
(d)   implementing agencies will follow the World Bank/IDA guidelinies in the procurement of
works, goods and services; thiey will submit to IDA updated and detailed procurement
schedules covering the investment period for each componenit, giving items and their
quantities, sources of funds, procurement methods and timing; they will benefit from the
assistance of a procurement specialist and a consulting firm for the supervision of works;
(e)   the National Coordination and Monitoring Committee for the Program will include the
following entities: ISRA, ITA, NARF, ANCAR, ASPRODEB, Ministries of Agriculture,
Livestock, Scientific and Technical Research, Economy. Finances and Planning and the
Office of the Prime Minister. It will monitor Program implemenitation and meet every
three months;
(f)    each implementing agency will submit comprehensive semianinual progress reports. A
review will be carried out by a joint Government/ World Bank/IFAD team no later than
two years after the program has become effective, with coordinationi by the National
Coordination and Monitoring Committee;
Tasks to be completedfor Boardl presentation.
For the Program
Letter of institutional development policy has been adopted.
Tasks to be completed before credit effectiveness.
ANCAR, ASPRODEB, ITA, MA, MOL and NARF have respectively recruited an independent external
auditor acceptable to the Association on the basis of a one-year renewable contract.
The Borrower has established a financial accounting and management system, satisfactory to the
Association, for ANCAR, ASPRODEB, ITA, MA, MOL and NARF respectively, including, for NARF
provision to subcontract its financial management and accounting functions to an accounting firm
acceptable to the Association;
ANCAR has : (i) adopted its Management and Internal Organization Manual ; (ii), appointed an
accounting firm to be responsible for the quality of ANCAR's accounts for the first two years of the
Project and for the training of its accounting staff;
MA and MOL respectively: (i) have redeployed their staff; and (ii) the Borrower has adopted the legal
texts organizing the two ministries and establishing (A) a single regional directorate including support to
crops and livestock production; and (B) a maximum of seven national directorates for MA and MOL;



Page 27
The subsidiary agreement between the Government and ASPRODEB and the Government and NARF
have been signed.
Dated covenants.
By December 31, 1999, the Borrower will have adopted a Manual of Procedures for the evaluation and
monitoring of sub-projects, in form and substanice acceptable to the Association.
By December 31, 1999, ITA will have disassociated and accounted for separately its research and
commercial activities.
By December 31, 2001, the Borrower will liave taken all the necessary measures to change the legal
status of NARF to an entity governed by private law with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association.
By December 31, 2001, ANCAR will have completed an evaluation of its personiel. The identified staff
to be retained will become contractual.
By December 31, 2001, the Government will be a minority shareholder of ANCAR.
By December 31, 2001, the extension functions of the Societes Regionales de De;veloppement Rural
(SRDR) will have been redefined on the basis of an external evaluation including the cost-efficiency of
each structure, beneficiaries satisfaction and relevance of extension services in order to decide on the
institutional modalities for carrying out extensioni services.
Tasks to be completed before component disbursement.
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement;
ISRA. No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments against Categories l(a), 2 (a) and 3 (a),
unless ISRA has: (i) established a financial and accounting management system  acceptable to the
Association and certified by external auditors, disassociating and accounting for separately ISRA's
commercial and research activities; (ii) appointed its financial management and accounting staff with
terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Association; (iii) completed the financial
restructuring (reprise du passif anterieur) in form and substance acceptable to the Association; (iv)
adopted a Plan for the restructuring of ISRA infrastructure network in conjunction with available
resources and its strategic plan, acceptable to the Association; (v) appointed an accounting firm
responsible for ISRA's account for the first two years of the Project and the training of the accounting
staff and, ensure the quality of ISRA's accounts; (vi) furnished a balanced and audited balance sheet, in
form satisfactory to the Association; and (vii) appointed an external auditor, acceptable to the
Association.
H: Readiness for Implementation
1. The procurement documents for the first year's activities will be completed for the launching of the
project.



Page 28
2. Each agency has a Manual of procedures which has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality except for ANCAR and.ASPRODEB (See below).
3. The following items are under preparation and are discussed under loan conditions.
* Management and Internal Organization Manual of ANCAR.
*  Manual of Procedures for the evaluation and monitoring of sub-projects of ASPRODEB.
See above (Section G) for the actions to be undertakeni for disbursemenit or dated covenanits. They are all
reflected in the Credit Agreement.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[ x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ x]  The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
T         Leader: Marie-H616ne Collion
Sector  a  er: Jean-Paul Chausse
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub



Page 29
ANNEX I
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Program Design Summary
GOALS/OBJECTIVES AND IMPACT
Descriptive summary             Verifiable objective indicators          Means of verification               Critical conditions/Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal             Reduce the number of rural poor from    National surveys
Rural poverty alleviation which     45% to 30% in ten years
translates into:
*  improved food security
* improved rural income
*  sustainable production systems
Program Outcome/Impact
sustainable increase of smallholder  By year 2005:                       Agricultural statistics              droughit conditionis do not worsen (a
productivity                        - Crop yield increases between 15 to 35                                   30% yield reductioni every three year
% depending on the cropping system    ANCAR, ISRA and ITA reports       has been assumed).
for 15 to 30 % of the farms
(depending on the agroecological                                        enabling envirolimenit for technology
zone).                                                                  adoption
- Livestock productivity increases
betw een 30 to 70% for 10 to 15% of                                     legal and regulatory framework
the herds depending on the                                              conducive for private investmenit
agroecological zone                - reports from CNCR and Chamber of
- volume of agricultural products     Commerce
processed by small entrepreneurs and
women associations increased by 15%  - Reports of the Center of Ecological    Environimenital Code effectively applies
- lessening trends of environmental   Monitoriig
degradation



Page 30
Project Development Objectives
Descriptive summary                Objective verifiable indicators             Means of verification                 Critical coiiditions/Risks
- establish an effective national     - 30 % of the total operational         - anlual reports of the institutes
agriculture and agroprocessing        financing of
research system, through the          agriculture/agroprocessing research    -FNRA statistics on the number and
National Agricultural Research        allocated by FNRA                      types of research contracts finianiced
Fund
- 80% of R/D projects identified withiin  - periodic reports of on-going       - strengthening of leadership of the
the scope of R/D extensioni, finanlced    contracts                           genieral directorates of the institutes
by the FNRA                                                                   and motivationl of the staff
- at least 2 more finanicial sponsors of   - evaluation reports of projects    - colimlimitmilenlt of the Governimienit to
FNRA contributing 10% of the funds.  requested by CST                         adequately finance researca in a
Suistalinable wvay
- improve ISRA and ITA  efficiency  - investment plan carried out             - performance review process in place   - mobilizationi of scientific and
through improving their scientific and                                                                                 noniscienitific staff
managerial capabilities; rehabilitating  - number of theses and long-tern     - evaluation reports
their  infrastructure  and  upgrading   training programs of administrative
their equipment:                        staff                                 - aniual reports of the implemietation
of the training plan
- 20 % of scientific and noni scientific
staff benefiting from training once   - studies specific to the situations
during the three years
- three training sessions in
management for the key scientific
and administrative leaders in both   |
institutes during the 3 years (jooit
traininlg programs possible)



Page 31
Project Development Objectives
Descriptive summary              Objective verifiable indicators           Means of verification                Critical conditions/Risks
- establish extension services      - ANCAR's Board with a majority       -composition of ANCAR Board           -  producer  organizations  and  other
accountable to producers and        producer organizations                                                       beneficiaries fail to take over ANCAR
responsive to their needs through                                                                                ownershiip because of lack of capital
contractual arrangements           -joint Government-Producer           - legal texts exist and are applied      and governmeit difficulty to let go of
organizations allocation of                                                 ANCAR's control
agricultural levies
- goveriinmenit uniwilliig  to relinqtuishi
- at least 142 contracts signed and  - contracts                              control  over  the  allocation   of
operational between ANCAR and the                                           agriculttiral levies
POs
- improve producer organizations' - POs provide at least 75% of the       - Beneficiary assessmenit             -  participatory  and  client-orienitation
ability to provide services to their  services requested by producers                                            culture of ANCAR staff, ISRA and
members to access inputs, credit                                                                                 [[A is not effective
and marketing and to make their - all POs requests for techiiology are  - research  and  extensioni program
voice heard in the decision-making   taken into account either in research    contenit
processes                           proposals or in extension programs.
- focus the Ministries' services on  -legal texts reorganizing the ministries  - missions verifying  the  effective - delays in implemilenitinig the texts and
their regulatory, policy-making and                                       implemeintation of the legal texts and    redeploying the persoinel
adopted and implem-ented                                                              Z
monitoring  functions,  strengthen                                        the effectiveniess of services at the
their capabilities in these domains - reliable services at the regional level    regional level               - insufficienit qualified hutimilan resources
and devolve services to the regions.                                                                             and training is not eflective



Page 32
Project Outputs and Activities
COMPONENTS I, II, III: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (NARF, ISRA, ITA)
OUTPUTS
Descriptive summary             Objective verifiable indicators         Means of verification              Critical conditions/Risks
effective functioning of a national    - at least 10 project financed the first   - minutes of meetings of above groups  Scientists do not present proposals that
Fund of agricultural research      year and at least 50 by the end of                                      are relevant and of scientific quality
allowing an allocation of resources    three years.                   - aniual report of managemenit
to operational research according to                                   committee                           The scientific and the maniagemenlt
objectives of SNRA3               - percentage of projects approved by                                     committees are not effective and do
the Fund without modification      - annual report of scientific committee  not operate independently from the
executing ilstitutes
- percentage of projects approved by
the Fund once modified
research projects meet one or several  - 15 research contracts associated with  - reports of activities of the institutes - meanis of reviewing projects and of
of the following criteria: (i)     at least two agencies of SNRAA by    and the Fund;                       monitorinig/evaluationi of the research
mobilization of all of the actors in    the end of 3 years                                                  contracts insufficienit.
research; (ii) responsive to needs  - number of theses and scientific  - ad-hoc studies
identified with the users; (iii)   congresses during 6 years
adaptability to the globalization of   - number of projects carried out
science.                           consistent with the demand



Page 33
ACTIVITIES
Descriptive summary             Objective verifiable indicators         Means of verification               Critical conditions/Risks
- put into place a management       - fully operational end-1999        - external, scientific, administrative,
information system                                                      financial and accounting audits
- establish a training plan         - number of training programs       - annual training reports
annually
- establish an investment plan for  - all structures rehabilitated in 3 years  - balance sheets and
rehabilitation and implementation  - 70% of equipment procured in 3      accounting/physical inventories
years
- consolidation of the pilot committee   - at least 3 annual meeting starting  - minutes of meetings
of National Research system          from 1999 onwards
- development and submission of     - 4 projects in the course of two years   - aniual reports of the institutes and
projects linking two institutions or                                     FNRA
more, to FNRA
- development and submission to     - 7 projects undertaken by the end of 2  - publications
FNRA of thematic research projects    yrs                              - proceedings of con,resses
(methods, knowledge bases)         - number of publications
stemming from strategic planning   - number of methods put at the
disposition of the regional centers
- development and submission to     - 8 projects undertaken within 2 years  - aninial reports of the institutes
FNRA other sources of applied      - 25% of strategic plans translated into  - aniual reports of FNRA
research projects ( sector          projects
technologies, systems) stemming
from strategic plans
- participation in R/D assessment   - number of sessions (see PO        - aniual reports of the RD unit
organized by CLCOP within the       activities)
scope of R/D consultations         - 50 tests of technology transfer and
adaptation available within two years
- development and submission to     - 50% of felt needs identified in the  - aniual reports of the extensioni staff
FNRA, R&D projects stemming from    assessment translated into projects
participatory assessment



Page 34
Program Outputs and activities
COMPONENT IV: ANCAR
OUTPUTS
Descriptive summary               Verifiable objective indicators           Means of verification                Critical conditions/Risks
- extension services respond to the  - rate of achievement of planned activities  - minutes of meetings         - difficulties putting in place a real
demand of producers for advice       (number of meetings held, partner      - assessments of implementation of   partnership
targeted to their needs, of good     agencies involved, studies validated,   activities                        - insufficiency of technical and financial
technical quality, and focuses on their  contracts fulfilled, evaluation of training, - evaluation forms        means to put necessary staff in place and
production system.                   procedures put in place and their      - evaluation reports                to implemenit a quality training program
application, etc.)                     - internal and external audits
- ANCAR with majority producer       - new statutes                          - existing texts                   - transfer deferred by Government
organizations control and minority  - new systems of governance              - President of the Board of       -partner agencies are not ready to raise
Government control                                                           Governors to the producer          their part of the capital (i.e., they are not
organizations/ managers of the    convinced in the effectiveness of
Government's minority share       ANCAR: they don't have the means to
acquire complementary share of capital;
or the problem of the sustainable
finanicinig of ANCAR (see following) is
inot resolved
- sustainable financing mechanisms   - document approved by all parties      - studies available                - the regulatory texts are not adopted oii
Co-managed by the Government and   - regulatory texts elaborated and adopted   - workshops of validation held   schedule
producer organizations are defined                                          - commitment of the partner
and accepted by all partner agencies                                         agencies, notably the producer
organizations, to augment their
part of the capital
- texts
- staff in place (including female staff)  - agents recruited: 267 in year 1. 470 in    - signed contracts      - noiavailability of staff with the targeted
and selected in a manner satisfactory    year 2, representing 58% of the planined   - reports of the selection  profiles
to the beneficiaries                 personnel and including women           committees                        - nolavailability of financial resources
- civil service personnel have adopted   - the opinion of the beneficiaries was  - personnel files              - producer participation in selection
contractual status or left ANCAR     taken into account in the selection                                        committees is not effective
- no civil service personnel work at                                       - socio-political roadblocks
ANCAR
- personnel trained, including in the  - 358 individuals have been trained   - training session reports         - weak capacity (content of training and
new approaches                       initially and can apply the content     - evaluation reports on the training    ability of trainers) to undertake the types
I of training required



Page 35
ACTIVITIES
Descriptive summary                Verifiable objective indicators             Means of verification                 Critical conditions/Risks
-staff and partnership arrangements    - 142 extension agents operational at    - assessments and programiis achieved
are identified and tested              the local level and 10 at the regional    by staff
level                                 - forms of
- contracts amonig partner agencies for
program implemenitationi conclLided
- Agricultural Counsel programs        - at least 142 contracts signed and    - evaluationi of results                - extensioni workers not in place or
defined and achieved for the zones     operational                           - reports on implemenitationi of the     fuilictionilig
covered                                                                       contracts, inclidinlg an evaluationi of   - certain techilologies are not available
results
- partner agencies adhere to an        - workshops on the entreprenieurial    - evaluation certificates from the      - part of staff do not adhere to
entrepreneurial work culture           work culture held for all categories   workshops                               entreprenieurial tenets
of staff, by type                     - communication                        - training on the entreprenieurial work
- internal and external communication                                          culture is not effective
plan
- mechanisms and procedures of         - procedural manuals                   - procedural manuals                    - procedures defined in manual are not
technical, administrative and                                                                                         applied
financial management are tested and
valid
- negotiation with the various partner   - meetings/workshops                - proceedings/minutes                   - difficulties or delays in cominig to
agencies to modify the structure of    - individuals and structures involved                                         agreemiienlt amonlg the partner agencies
the shareholder arrangement
- studies and workshops to determine    - study reports                      - study reports                         - delays in validation by the authorities
and validate mechanisms of            - minutes of workshiops                - mIlutes of vorksliops
sustainable financing                 - regulatory tests                    - regulatory tests
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              .1 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Page 36
ACTIVITIES
Descriptive summary               Verifiable objective indicators           Means of verification                Critical conditions/Risks
- nomination of members of personnel  - ministerial decision               - decree                               - competition between ANCAR and the
selection committees                                                                                              restructured Ministry for recruitment
of staff,
- definitive selection and recruitment   - selection criteria and proceedings    - selection criteria notes/proceedings    - socio-political conflicts
- placement of personnel              - fixed-term work contracts ( 2 years)  - employment contracts
- performance evaluations             - evaluation reports; grading        - evaluation reports
- fixed-term assignments or non-      - ANCAR no longer has contracts of    files of personnel managemenit
renewal of contract or return to      indeterminate duration
public service
- selection of trainers, planning of  - training materials                 - traininig materials
modules, identification of comple-   - contracts with external resources  - contiacts
mentary training needs
- workshop reports
- organization and implementation of   - workshops conducted               - reports of the S/E of the trainees
training sessions                                                         - post traininig evaluation
evaluation of extension agents      - evaluation reports                   - evaluation reports
elaboration of programs and         - numbers of contracts, themes,        - program documents by each zone
identifying and formalizing contracts  technologies                         covered
with partner agencies
implement contracts                 - percentage of results attained; rate of  - evaluation reports              - risk of losing interest due to other
implementation of activities         - aniual assessment of activities      priority needs not being met



Page 37
ACTIVITIES
Descriptive summary             Verifiable objective indicators         Means of verification               Critical conditions/Risks
- establishment of a communication    - attitudes and behavior that conform    - surveys regarding hierarchiies of
plan regarding the entrepreneurial  with an entrepreneurial culture     values
culture (elaboration of educational
aids/means of dissemination) and
- elaboration, testing and          - procedures manual adopted and      periodical reporting of internal and    - procedures not applied
implementation of procedural manuals  applied                           external audits
- pilot pastoral program (PPP): testing  - set of monitorable indicators for PPP  - M&E system               - Conflict on Commonl Property
of community-based pastoral resource  implementation and impact        - Regional network evaluation         Resources
management (national component of   (landscape; production; quality of life) - AnnIial regional workshop    - Severe droughlt
regional program WAPPP)                                                - Beneficiary assessment



Page 38
Program Outputs and Activities by component
COMPONENT V: SUPPORT TO PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS
OUTPUTS
Descriptive summary                  Verifiable objective indicators      Means of verification           Critical conditions/Risks
- Grassroots rural producers organizations and their                                SPECIFIC DOCIJMENTS              SPECIFIC RISKS
members are capable of:                          - number of services provided vis-
i) mobilizing the services needed by their members to  A-vis number of services needed   - proposal docuLIlenlts of CLCOP,  - timiely availability of funlds
increase yields, production, and income, such as  -qualitative assessmelnt of      CRCOP, federations of POs, and  - availability of services
research, training access to credit and inputs, means   suitability of services in relation    CNCR                - fulfillmenit of commitments by
of processing, and marketing services.            to needs                        - specific surveys                extensioni team
(ii) influence rural development policies at the local,  - POs proposals are considered in  - proceedings of constiltationis at   - fulfillimenit of commiiitmiienits by
regional and national level so the aspirations of rural  research projects presented to  the nationial, regionial and local    researchers
people are better taken into account and served   FNRA                             level                           - availability of partner agencies
- contracts with extension services
effectively reflect POs' requests
- 142 contracts between extension
services and POs are effective
- 10 research teams contractually
work with POs
- the proposals of POs and
federations of POs are considered
in formulating agricultural poiicy



Page 39
OUTPUTS                                                                      1
Descriptive summary                 Verifiable objective indicators     Means of verification          Critical conditions/Risks
- POs supported by the Component:
(i) participate in diagnostic assessments and the  - 142 participatory diagiiosis  - evaluationi report of the   - programiis overly complex
design, implementation, and evaluation (of activities  initiated                 assessmenits                   - programils of extensioni not
and actors) of programs (extension, research, etc.)    - 142 programs of extensioni  - extenisioni programis     adequately accompaniied by
defined                        - research programis             providing iiptit supply,
marketinig, and access to credit
ii) diagnose their constraints and strengths, projects,  - 10 research programs defined    - reports of evaluationi ol the  - subprojects overly complex
identify and mobilize resources by contractual  - annual meeting held of CLCOP    teams                         - too maniy small projects
means, manage and enforce accountability         and CRCOP to evaluate the
performance of contracted
services                      -documilentation of the subprojects
-852 subprojects identified
- number of subprojects elaborated
by the PO and rural communities,
accepted and implemented



Page 40
OUTPUTS
Descriptive summary                 Verifiable objective indicators     Means of verification          Critical conditions/Risks
POs participate in decision making processes and are - 142 CLCOP are so included  - synthesized reports of CLCOP
members of governing bodies of rural development   locally                      - synthiesized reports of CRCOP
institutions where they make substantiated proposals - 10 CRCOP are included    - proceedings of decision makinig
that are taken into account                      regionally                      sessions with CNC R
- CNCR actively participates in the  participation
decision making and leadership   - reports of activities of local,
of national agencies for rural  regional and nationial RD
developmenit                    institutions



Page 41
ACTIVITIES (OPERATIONS)
Descriptive summary                 Verifiable objective indicators    Means of verification          Critical conditions/Risks
setting up of CLCOP and CRCOP with support of - 142 CLCOP created             - Report on creation of CLCOP   - large proportion of PO are weak,
Technical executing agency                     - 10 CRCOP created              - Report on creation of CRCOP    created durinig the Project
participatory needs assessment carried out with  - 142 needs assessments       - needs assessment documlienits,
support of technical executing agency and                                       some by regioln. or Techinical
elaboration of the local development plan at the                                executing agency reports
level of the CR, from which the programs of
extension and research development (RD) ensue
- nuiLmerotis low priority projects
elaboration and management (on contractual basis)  - 852 subprojects or micro-  - evaluation reports of subprojects
of subprojects in the areas of training,        projects/ activities, with 6 by
communication, adoption of technological        CRCOP
innovations, access to specialized technical services
- analysis of some extensioni  - programs not reflecting of the
- extension and RD programs achieved on a       - 142 extension programs with     programs by region (ANCAR      priorities of the farmers of the
contractual basis with ANCAR and others offering    ANCAR                       reports)                       representative POs
extension and RD services
at the regional level, CRCOP select and manage  - 20 projects carried out at the  - project reports
projects in the area of training, communication,  level of CRCOP
adoption of technological innovations of concern to
PO across several rural communities, on the basis of
needs assessments carried out at the rural
communities level;



Page 42
ACTIVITIES
Descriptive summary                       Verifiable objective indicators         Means of verification                 Critical
.________________________________________________                                                                            conditions/R isks
at the national level, organizational assessments and action - 2 organizational assessments  - 2 assessmenit reports
plans for restructuring of federations (both members and
non members of CNCR) are undertaken and achieved
at the national level, annual financial audits of CNCR and  - 2 audits                      - 2 audit reports
the member or non member federations of CNCR are
completed
prepare via training and communication PO representatives - 5 training workshops
to participate in decision making regarding ANCAR and  - 15 centers of traiiig
research
study regarding the co-management of agricultural levies   - I study report validated by POs    - study report of FNDR
with the GOS and specifying the financial contribution of   and Government
PO to the operations of research and extension services
workshops held on strategic considerations to prepare PO   - 3 workshops held               - 3 worksilop reports
proposals to be submitted to CLCOPs and CRCOPs
program of communications outreach                      - 8 informational bulletins        - 8 inforimiationi bulletinis
- 4 specific dossiers              - 4 specific dossiers
- 30 communication relays
- 48 broadcasts
- 10 CRCOP equipped
- 16 workshops at the
arrondissenient level
a database on the activities of PO established          - I database set up                 - reports on the database
supervision missions undertaken for Technical executing   - 12 missions                    - supervision mission reports
agency activities by the CNCR



Page 43
Program Outputs and Activities by coniponent
COMPONENT VI and VII: Support key Ministry functions (Agriculture and Livestock) an(d specific livestock activities
OUTPUTS
Descriptive Summary               Verifiable objective indicators            Mcans of verification               Critical conditions/Risks
agriculture and livestock services  - texts governing mission and structure   - decrees regardinig reorganizationi of the l delay in the adoption of texts
totally disengaged from market        of public agriculture services adopted    mission and structuIe of MA and ML  organizing thle Ministries Iinked with
activities and refocused on public    and put in place                      adopted                                the creationi of the Ministry of
service missions                                                                                                   Livestock
- official reporting of effective      - missions verifying the effective
disengagement from market activities   implemenitationi of the provisions of
texts organizinlg the Ministr-y
agriculture and livestock services  - reliable statistical information system   - evaluation missionis regarding this area  - delay in finanlcilig the necessary
equipped with a system of information  defined and operational at the level of                                     equipmllelnt
and statistics responsive to information   DAPS                            - testing of the informationi system
demand of POs, private firms,        - agents trained and placed in their                                         - insuLfficiilt humliani resources qualified
Government, and other agencies.      respective posts at central, regional and - statistical bulletins and anniual reports   in statistics at the level of the agents of
- ML equipped with Livestock Survey    local levels                          specialized by subsector               the MA and ML
System and Computerized              - tools and equipment procured
Modelization System                  - statistical tools of partner agencies are
harmonized and coherent among each
other
agriculture and livestock services  - services of MA regrouped into the    - missions to evaluate the organization of - absence of a reorganization or of a
organized coherently at the central and   same place at the central level   agriculture services in relation to    communication system of the central
regional levels, avoiding overlap in the  - administrative services of MA and ML  ANCAR, the projects              services of MA and ML
exercise of their functions and not  in place, without any overlap with
competing with the private sector.    ANCAR or competition with private    - surveys of the private sector in     - ANCAR not established
sector                                agriculture and livestock



Page 44
OUTPUTS
Descriptive Summary                 Verifiable objective indicators              Means of verification                 Critical conditions/Risks
- the activities of SRDR are in accord    - studies undertakeni regardinig the  - study reports on lhe SRD)R completcd    - oper ationial budgets of the regionial
with those of ANCAR and ministries      SRDR are finished with respect to the   - examiniationi of letters fromii the    directorates of rtiral developmenit put
preparation of their next letter of     preparatory missionis of SRI)R          into place by the Governmienit are
mission                                                                         insufl icient
- agriculture services' structure and   - regional directorates for rural       - review of level of equipmiienit and     absence of regionial plans and
operations are adapted to the context of  development created and adequately    operationis of the regional directorates    prog,rams of developmenit ilitiated by
regionalization and decentralization.   staffed (given their missions), fuLided,   of rulal developmenit and            the local comm11ullities
and equipped to work with the local     appropriateness of
communities                            - doculilenlts of work in comimiloIn (plans,
local and regional programs and
convenitiois, protocols and agreements
linkinig the regional directoratcs and the
local communities.
the feasibility of privatization of   - programs of privatization finalized    - available programs of integration
private pest control, veterinarian and    - start of program of installation of  - demanid for providing private services
other disciplines of agriculture and    private professionals                   identified
livestock has been established                                                 - surveys of private providers requestinig
to become established
- the capabilities of agriculture and   - the DAPS put in place at the central,   - evaluation of the establishment of the
livestock services to conduct analysis,   regional and local levels             DAPS and analysis methods of the
planning and monitoring and           - structures of economic analysis put in    techinical directorates
evaluation are reinforced               place at the level of the technical   - evaluation of the quality of the
directorates of the Ministry            documents produced in analysis,
- the agents of the DAPS and other        planniniig and monitorinig and
technical directorates responsible for    evaluation
economic analysis trained             - evaluation of the impact of
recommendationis of the DAPS



Page 45
OUTPUTS
Descriptive Summary               Verifiable objective indicators            Means of verification                Critical conditions/Risks
- each directorate, division or office of   - products expected for the directorates, - examinationi of the expected outputs
the administrative services has a clear   divisions and offices
definition of its tasks and expected
products                             ___
- the criteria of performance of staff and  - a document of performance criteria  - examination of the criteria defined  - non participatory strategy
agents are finalized, allowing        agreed to by staff
objective evaluation
- agriculture and livestock services in    - operational and equipment budgets of - examiniationi of the budgets and  - operational budget of the regional
the field are provided means to make    agriculture and livestock services in    evaluationi of operations and equipillent    directoratcs of rural.devclopment
them operational                      the field correspond to the provisions    of the public agriculture services   set out by the Govermalenit is
of the project                                                                 iiiadeqtiate
- national epizootic diseases control  - legal and regulatory framework     - evaluation
program                             - staff trained and recruited         - reports from NCFS and NDSN
improved food safety control program   - National Committee for Food Safety    - studies and surveys
(NCFS) established
- National Disease Surveillance Network
(NDSN)
an effective policy of communication   - communication policy strengthened    - evaluation
outreach to agriculture and livestock  and put in place
professionals and the general public



Page 46
ACTIVITIES
Descriptive Summary               Verifiable objective indicators            Means of verification                Critical conditions/Risks
adoption of texts organizing the MA    - texts adopted by the government   - examiniation of texts                - noni adoption of texts by the
and ML                                                                                                              Goveriiin et
establish new structures in the MA and - structures established with regard to    - evaluationi missionl of the establishment
ML at the central, regional and       program outlined                       of effective organizational structures
departmental level
rationalization and placement of     - at all levels of staff of the agricultural  - evaluationi mission looking at the
human resources                       services                               organizationlal structures
execution of training programs       - numbers of trained agents            - evaluation missioni of programs and
agents trained
- material resources in place         - level of financing of investment     - evaluationi missioni of the training  - absence or insufficicicy of finanlcinig
necessary for the public agricultural  programil anid the trainied agents    of investimienits by the donors of fuLids
services
studies to harmonize the activities of   - study documents finalized and    - studies made available
SRDR and those of the central         available
services
finalized program of integration of the  - program of installation available  - studies made available
graduates of agriculture and livestock
disciplines into the production
finalized program of privatization of   - program of installation available  - studies made available
pest control agents and veterinarians



Page 47
ANNEX ll
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Project Description
PROGRAM COMPONENT 1: NARF
1.    NARF was initially established by presidential decree utider the Ministry of Agriculture. By
December 31, 2001. NARF will become either a private foulidatioln or any other legal entity governed by
private law with terms of reference acceptable to the Association.  It will be governed by the
Mnagemwnet Comuittee and the.Scientific antdtc Teclhniicatl C'otimnzittee, and activities will be implemented
by an Executive Secretanriat. The decision to establish the Funld was made during a national seminar,
which took place in May 1998 and was presided by the Milister of Budget. The objective of the seminar
was to review NARF operating mechanisms and governing bodies' composition and functions. At
negotiationls. the terms of reference for the Executive Secretary of the Fund were reviewed. Before the
credit becomes effective, the personiel of the Executive Secretariat will have been recruited and the
governing bodies will liave been established.
2.     NARF Manageinent Committee will be composed of 16 members, all research stakeholders or
users, choseni intiuitI personae, from the Ministries of Economy, Finance and Planning, Agriculture,
Livestock. Scientific Research, and Fisheries, and from ANCAR, CNCR, the agro-industries, producer
or-anizationis, and NGO's. Representative of external donors will attend NARF Management Committee
meetings as observers. The mandate of the Manageinelnt Committee will be to ensure that the Fund
funictionis according to established procedures. as adopted under: (i) NARF Internal Organization Manual,
(ii) the guidelines and procedures for research proposals review and selection, and monitoring and
evaluation, and (iii) financial management and accounting procedures. The Management Committee will
approve NARF aninual program of work and budget and review the audit reports. Proposed guidelines
and procedures for the presentation, selection and monitoring and evaluation of research projects were
reviewed at the time of negotiations.
3.     The Scientific and Technical Committee (STC) mandate will be to : (i) elaborate NARF scientific
policy (to be approved by the Management Committee); (ii) determine the review, selection, monitoring
and evaluationi procedures of research proposals; and (iii) review and select research proposals (on the
basis of their scientific merit and their relevance to development needs). For the evaluation of some
research proposals, the STC will rely on a network of external peer reviewers. The research proposal
application and review procedures, and the criteria for selection will be defined in the above mentioned
guidelines. In addition to scientific quality and relevance, it is expected that the review of research
proposals will place particular emphasis on: (i) the integration of existing research results (domestic and
external); (ii) collaborative research activities with other institutions at the national, regional, and
international level; (iii) the incorporation of social, economic and gender analysis; and (iv) sustainability
issues. The STC will also participate in the monitoring and evaluation of approved projects. The STC
will be integrated with renowned senior scientists from within and outside Senegal, nominated by the
Management Committee. Criteria for the selection of members of STC and management committee of
NARF was presented and discussed during negotiations.
4.     Two parallel calls for research proposals, with similar review and approval procedures, will be
followed under NARF. Research proposals will be solicited on themes identified: (i) under ISRA and
ITA Strategic Plans; or (ii) by the users. For both mechanisms, NARF will invite proposals from one of



Page 48
the main institutes (ISRA and ITA), other entities in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS)
as well as joint proposals, from more than one institution. However, it is likely that researchers from
ISRA and ITA will be in the best position to elaborate research proposals corresponding to the themiies of
ISRA and ITA research plans, some of them in collaboration with other entities. At the end of the first
phase, NARF will carry out an audit of the contracts to determine to wvhat extent the terms of the
contracts have been followed by the various institutions. The conclusioll from the audit will determine
the institutions future access to the Funld.
5.     NARF will finance direct costs and research-related indirect costs, as a percentage of direct costs.
This percentage will be determined by the Management Commilittee.  Indirect costs include station and
equipment maintenance and managemiient.   Direct costs include short-termli training; publishing and
documentation costs; and costs of developing Iinkages between agricultural research, extensioni services
and producer organizations. It will support scientists' participation in regional and international research
networks. including collaborative research activities.
6.     The overall research objectives that NARF will pursue are the ones idenitified under ISRA and
ITA strategic plans, which are as follows: (i) improve the competitiveness of Senegalese agriculture, so
as to increase exports and recapture domestic markets; (ii) diversify the country's productive base; (iii)
protect natural resources, and (iv) improve valLue-added of agricultural production througlh processing,
particularly in rural areas, to stimulate employment and increase rural incomes. ISRA strategic plan
includes research on crop, livestock, fisheries, forestry, and natural resource management. ITA strategic
plan, wvhich focuses on post-harvest techiiology and  agroprocessing, has three main domains of
activities: (i) Technology generation or adaptationi: processing technologies cereals, fish and fish by-
products, sesame, groundniut and aflatoxin, indigellous fruit, watermelons, animal feed and salt iodization;
(ii! Quality control of processedproducts: a service for enterprises, both for domestic and export market;
an1d Training of trainers.
PROGRAM COMPONENTS 2 (ISRA) AND 3 (ITA).
7.     ISRA and ITA. ISRA and ITA operate under the general guidance of their respective Boards of
Governors.  At present, the Boards' composition, as proposed in the draft decrees organizing the
institutes under the new EPST law (Etablissernent Public a caractere scientifque et technique), is six
members from the government, two members chosen intuitl personae, two representatives from producer
organizations, two representatives from collectivites locales. To provide guidelines and monitor the
Institutes' research policies and strategies, the Boards will continue to rely on a Scientific and Technical
Committee (STC), which will be renewed and will consist of renowned national or foreign scientists. In
particular, the STC's will review proposed adjustments to the Strategic Plans and provide guidelines to
the Institutes to elaborate their long-term scientific policy and mid-to-long-term personnel policies. ITA
and ISRA organizational decrees describe Board membership and STC's compositions and mandates.
These decrees were adopted as a condition of negotiation. The role of the STC's will be made explicit in
the internal procedures manual of ITA and ISRA.
8.     ISRA elaborated a full-fledged policy and management statement for the Institute using a
participatory approach involving users, stakeholders and staff. This statement includes a definition of the
Institute goals, principles of management and organization processes, and overall priorities and principles
guiding the interactions with stakeholders, beneficiaries and other research institutions. ITA did not
prepare a policy and management strategy, but the essential elements of such a statement can be found in
its strategic plan. For example, both ISRA's policy and management statement and ITA's Strategic Plan
describe their working relationships with other national institutions, other NARS in the sub-region, the
International Agricultural Research Centers, and advanced research institutes from the North. This



Page 49
collaboration should enable the Institutes to draw from external experiences and results while
participating in collaborative regional projects and networking activities for technology generation.
9.     ISRA: Organization of research. ISRA has been reorganized into eight regional research centers
and five research support units. The regional centers correspond to the eight agroecological zones:
Senegal River Basin, Sylvo-pastoral zone, Northern Peanut Basin, Southern Peanut Basin, Upper
Casamance and Western Senegal, Lower and Middle Casamance, The Niayes, The Coastal Zone. The
research support units are essentially central laboratories for crop productioni, livestock, forestry, fisheries
and policy analysis/macroeconomics. These units provide support to the adaptive research carried out by
the regional research centers. Each regional center has a multidisciplinary natural resource management
and productioll systems team  in charge of coordinatinig on-farm  testing and adaptation, as well as
participatory technology development. This team is specifically in charge of direct collaboration with
producer organizationis and extension services.
10.    ITA: Organizationi of research. With techniical assistance from CIDA, ITA was reorganized.
The research-developmenit directorate in charge of technology generation, in partnership with small
processing enterprises and processing groups, has four research teams: cereals and leguminous crops;
fruits and vegetables; fish and fish products, and livestock products. The external affairs directorate is
responsible for defininlg the marketing policy of the Institute and for linkages with users (marketing and
technical support).
11.    ISRA and ITA: project planning and review process. ISRA is putting in place a project planning
and review process to ensure that research meets producers' needs.  To this end, producers will
participate in the process and give their input on the research agenda, not only for the design of on-farm
experiments, but also at the on-station stage. First, regional center researchers review their research
results and project the activities for the following year with a small group of representatives of producer
organizationis and selected regional extension and NGO staff. They are the users with whom researchers
carry out on-farm testing and adaptation. Relevant senior researchers from the support research units
participate in the regional programming and review meetings to promote client-oriented research all the
way up to upstream research.
12.    The process continues with a planning meeting between regional centers and research support
units in order to define which basic research activities are needed to backstop the activities identified by
the regional centers' clients. Then, the projects are screened and consolidated by the headquarters'
Scientific Directorate. The process ends with a final review by the Scientific and Technical Committee of
the Board.
13.    The planning and review process of ITA will be similar. Since ITA does not have regional
centers and in order to promote solid working relationships between ISRA and ITA, ITA researchers will
participate in ISRA's regional project committees. In addition, ITA will have its own planning and
review meetings with the group of users they are working with to develop technologies. The rest of the
process will be similar to that of ISRA.
14.    Physical infrastructure and equipment.  For ISRA, there will be limited development of
infrastructure under the program, mainly rehabilitation. New construction will take place only to
consolidate existing research sites which would have been retained after restructuring. Consolidation into
fewer site will decrease recurrent costs for ISRA  in the long run.  In some stations, additional
experimental plots will have to be developed to consolidate research activities in one site. Before
architectural and engineering plans are prepared, ISRA will obtain property titles (or any legal document
allocating the land to the Institute) and prepare experiment station development plans to indicate the
future use of buildings and grounds. A commission composed of senior scientists and engineers will



Page 50
oversee the development of such plans and monitor the implementation. Once ISRA has prepared an
experimental station development plan acceptable to IDA, the Association will review civil works and
land improvement plans for that particular location. For ITA, the Program will rehabilitate laboratories
and provide laboratory equipment. The presentation of an agricultural equipment profile for the research
stations and of a laboratory study (gap analysis between the existing equipment and equipment needed to
carry out the activities retained under the Strategic Plans) will be part of thie documentation required to
obtain the no objection for equipment purchase.
15.    Human resources management. At the moment, a system for researcher promotion does not
exist. ISRA and ITA are considering entering the African and Malagasy Council for Higher Education
(CAMES) system for researchers' promotion. In the meantime, ISRA and ITA are designing a system of
promotion for the researchers in which the criteria encourage development-oriented research and work
with clients. It is organized with external scientific commissions that the IDA credit will finance. These
arrangements are described in thie decrees of ISRA  and ITA  conditions of service (reglenenlt
d '&tab1issenment).
16.   ITA and ISRA conditions of service include a description of conditionis of entry for each category
of staff. It also contains a system for ongoing evaluation of staff performance, including an incenltive and
reward system. Finally, the conditions of service also include a salaty scale. The salary scale is high
enough to attract and retain well qualified personnlel, but not too high so that it can be financed out of the
governmenit contributioni. The simulation of the evolution of the two Institutes' wage bill, taking into
account the salary scale and number of staff was reviewed at the time of appraisal as well as the draft
decrees for conditions of service. The decrees for ISRA and ITA conditions of service were adopted by
the GOS as a condition of negotiations. In addition, both Inistitutes will adopt a management and internal
organizationi manual.
1 7.    Finanicial managemeit: ITA. A review of ITA finanicial and accounting management system was
carried out as part of the appraisal mission. It showed weaknesses which are being addressed with PPF
fundinig. As a condition of effectiveness, ITA financial management system will have to be certified by
an accounting firm and the Institute will have recruited a financial and managerment firm responsible for
the quality of ITA accounts during the first two-years of the project and for training its staff (See Annex
6).
18.    Financial management: ISRA. ISRA financial management and accounting system remained
weak under the previous IDA projects. The auditors gave a disclaimer and an adverse opinion for the
1995 and 1996 accounts, respectively. The main problems are: (i) the inventory of fixed assets, never
updated since 1992; (ii) important supplier debts, amounting to close to 1.5 billion CFA; (iii) inadequate
recording of sales and production costs for commercial activities (foundation seeds and vaccines); (iv)
inadequate recording of personnel debts; (v) lack of payment of personnel social security and benefits. In
November 1996, ISRA management designed an action plan to overcome this situation. In addition,
ISRA is putting in place an improved decentralized cost-accounting financial management and
accounting system, with a new software and new procedure manual and training of accounting staff. The
adequate functioning of the new financial management and accounting system as certified by an
accounting firm, the financial restructuring of the Institute (reprise du passif anterieur) and the
recruitment of a financial firm that will be responsible during the first two years of the project for the
quality of ISRA accounts are a condition for component disbursement.
19.    Training and technical assistance. The Institutes will prepare and update annually a training plan.
Scientists and managers will receive long-term training either from the IDA credit or from other sources
of funding. In addition, short-term training is envisioned in the following areas: scientific support at
critical moments of the project and review cycle; financial management; station management; human



Page 51
resource management; and documentationi, editing and publishing. The IDA credit will not provide any
long-term technical assistance. Short-term consultancies will be provided, in particular for bringing in
outside expertise for the external program  reviews commanided by the STC, development of
infrastructure plans, finanlcial management. and editing and publishinlg.
PROGRAM COMPONENT 4: Agricultural Extension: ANCAR
20.    ANCAR's manidate, ownership and strategy. The GOS decided to create ANCAR during an
interministerial couLIcil on March 17. 1997. ANCAR's mandate covers the whole of Senegal. Therefore,
it has been agreed that after the second year of its implementation, ANCAR will take over the extension
functions of SAED and SODEFITEX  if ANCAR' s services are proven effective and relevant for
beneficiaries needs. As a condition of negotiation, the decision to liquidate SODEVA was made.
21.    The P'rogram will help:
(a)    put ANCAR in place by selecting and training staff at all levels and defining the
Agency's operating procedures. The procedures will ensure that ANCAR operates in a
decentralized fashion, giving regional offices a great deal of autonomy in managing staff
and financial resouL-ces and providing for mechanlisms to involve the participation of
producer organizations in decision-milakinig regarding agency local level staffing.
(b)    provide extension services to producers througih contractual arrangements between
ANCAR and rural communes or producer organizations.
(c)    develop mechanisms to improve the capacity of extension services and producers'
associations to work together to define and implemenlt extensioll activities.  To this
effect, ANCAR will test ways to work together with POs to: (i) elaborate local level
exteisioni activities based on participatory assessment; (ii) involve POs and rural
commilunes in the selection and evaluationi of the extension workers; and (iii) train and
involve POs' auxiliary personiel in the implementation of the extension activity.
(d)    upgrade techilical and managerial skills of extension personnel through a regular in-
service, as well as short-term, training activities. All staff will initially be trained to
adopt a participatory attitude, ANCAR's guiding principle. Extension workers' technical
skills will be upgraded.  Subject matter specialists, along with researchers and
representatives from producers' associations, will receive systematic training in their
respective disciplines, as well as training in participatory technology development
methods, basic economic and financial analysis, and social and gender analysis. All staff
in managerial positions will be trained in management techniques.
(e)    establish a system for continual staff evaluation and reward for best performances. The
system will include input from producers in the evaluation process.
(f)    promote the use of mass media, particularly radio, to complement field activities.
(g)    promote a systematic concern for meeting the technology needs of female producers,
processors, and marketers.
(h)    implement pilot extension activities, such as provision of specialized extension advice
from other providers, on a contractual basis;
(i)    implement the pilot national component of the West African Pilot Pastoral Program



Page 52
(WAPPP) aiming at testing community-based pastoral resource management;
22.           The West African Pilot Pastoral Programi (WAPPP) is aiming at testing an inn1ovative
Community-Based Natural Resource Management in the semi-arid pastoral areas of Senegal (Ferlo
region). This pilot operation is the national component of the regional West African Pilot Pastoral
Program.  The Pilot Pastoral Program  objective is to demonstrate that througL1 proper resource
management, it is possible to reverse the current process of land and vegetation degradation taking place
in most pastoral areas of Senegal and to secure sustainiable agrosylvopastoral productioni, tlhus alleviating
poverty and improving the living conditions of these communities. The encouraginig preliminary resul(ts
from Asre Bani, the Pilot Pastoral Area clhoseni in the South Ferlo, promoted a demand to expand
activities. The initiative is being mainstreamiled into the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizatiolis
Program. It is intended to progressively add more Pilot Pastoral Areas, so that at the end of the pilot
phase in 2001. the operation will include a dozen sites. If the pilot is a success, the next step will be to up-
scale the operation at national level.  The activities include technilcal assistance to pastoralists in
designing and implemenitinig their Comllunllity Based Natural Resource Manageinetit plans, investmiients
in Pilot Pastoral Areas and a specific national training program. Given the pilot nature of the program, it
will be closely monitored and evaluated.
23.    ANCAR's assets. ANCAR's assets will come mainily from the previous Agricultural Services
Project and SODEVA. The physical invenitory of these assets is being carried out as part of the MA
restructurinig effort. The part of the assets of SODEVA and of the former Agricultural Services Project
whiich will be turned over to ANCAR will be determined and evaluated. On that basis, ANCAR will
elaborate an investmenit plan for the first phase to be ready at effectiveness.
24.    ANCAR financinig plan during the first two years. During the first two years it is expected that
the GOS, through its own resources and the IDA credit, will finance most of ANCAR's operating
expenditures.  The government's contribution was included in the 1999 Budget Bill and in the
Programme Triennal dInvestissemen;t Puzblic ( 1998-2000) as a condition of negotiations. Even though at
the beginniniig prodticer organizations will not contribute directly to ANCAR's operating costs, it is
expected that through contractual arrangements with ANCAR at the local level, they will participate in
the financinig of the local extension agents' operating costs.
25.    ANCAR financing plan during the second and third phase. After this initial phase, beneficiaries
will take over the financing of ANCAR operating expenditures in accordance with their share of capital.
To this end, negotiations have begun between the GOS and producer organizations to determine how the
taxes collected on agricultural products could be co-managed between the GOS- and producer
organizations. As a condition of negotiations, the GOS and producer organizations presented the results
of a study determining the taxes that could be subject of joint management. T'he establishment of these
mechanisms and procedures is a trigger condition for the second phase.
26.    ANCAR's organization. When fully established, ANCAR will have a central office, and ten
regional directorates with the appropriate administrative and financial autonomy for implementation.
ANCAR's total staff will be limited to 812 staff: 690 technical staff and 122 administrative staff. There
will be 459 extension agents working at rural commune level, a total of 159 extension managers and
subject-matter specialists, with different fields of expertise depending on the production. systems Forty
high level managers will be located in the central office (10) and in the regions (30).
27.    Each Regional Office will be responsible for programming and implementing extension activities
in its area of intervention. Subject-matter specialists will be grouped to work as a team, according to
production systems or agroecological zones and will be located at the department level, rather than the
regional level, to be closer to their intervening zones. Each extension agent willl have access to a team of



Page 53
two to three subject-matter specialists. He/she will be based in a rural commune (commn,unaute rurale)
and work with an agreed upon number of villages and producer organizations. The task of the extension
manager is not solely administrative: he/she will be expected to provide technical back-up to the
extension agents as well.
28.    Working arrangements.  Extension activities will be formulated at the rural commune
(communaute rurale) level, between the extension agent and the producers. To elaborate an extension
program, a participatory diagnosis will be conducted joinitly between the producers. ANCAR staff and
staff from other development agencies working in the rural commune (NGOs, etc). The extension
activities identified in that way, will be the basis for an annual contract between the rural commune and
POs, on the one hand, and ANCAR and the extension agent on the other. The contract will specify the
content of the extension activities, the expected results, the operating budget and the contribution of the
producer organizations or rural commune to financinig. Wherever POs or NGOs have their own
auxilliaire villageois, ANCAR extension agent will iltervene only to complement the work of the
auxilliaire villageois. ANCAR will provide the auxilliaire villageois with technical backstopping through
its subject matter specialists and training programs. The program of work of the awryilliaire villageois.
technical back up and training, and budget will be defined in an annual contract between ANCAR and the
PO or NGO. The organization of ANCAR and working arrangements at the local level will be presented
in a detailed management and internal organization manual. Its approval by the Board is a condition of
credit effectiveness. However, it is understood that the manual will have to be adjusted along with
implementation, therefore it is proposed that it be reviewed at the end of the first phase.
29.    Staffing. The terms of reference and profiles for all ANCAR positions have been defined in the
draft management and internal organization manual. On that basis, expression of interest have been
solicited and candidates have been pre-selected. For each managerial position, and whenever possible,
three candidates have been pre-selected. The final selection will be made by a Committee reflecting the
composition of the Board and headed by the Director General. There will be one such committee for the
selection of national level personnel, and regional level committees for the selection of regional
personnel.
30.    Procedures for personnel annual performance review, criteria for promotion and incentive system
will be defined in the management and internal organization. These procedures will include mechanisms
to collect beneficiaries' appreciation of ANCAR local level staff, in particular the extension agents.
31.    A progressive implementation. A comprehensive training program will accompany the process
of establishing the Agency. This initial training program will have as its objective the sensitization of all
ANCAR staff to the new extension approach and to the way that the Agency will function (on the basis of
the management and internal organization manual).  The training program  will include various
managerial and communication aspects as well. The initial training program was examined at the time of
negotiations. ANCAR will be established progressively over a four-year period. The implementation
plan for ANCAR was reviewed at the time of appraisal. As part of the conditions for negotiation, the
Board of Governors of ANCAR elected the Director-General. The recruitment of the managerial
personnel necessary for the first year will be done before the credit becomes effective. The recruitment
of the managerial personnel necessary for the first year would be done before the, credit becomes
effective. The extension activities of SAED, SODEFITEX and ANCAR will be evaluated at the end of
the first two years as far as the cost-efficiency of each structure, beneficiaries satisfaction and relevance
of extension services, in order to decide on the institutional modalities for carrying out extension services.
The extension mandate of SAED, SODEFITEX will be redefined on the basis of this external evaluation.
32.    Financial management and accounting system. An accounting firm will be recruited to design a
decentralized cost-accounting financial management and accounting system. As part of its terms of



Page 54
reference, the firm will have to design the system, advise on the choice of a software, and agree on
selected parameters, write the manual of procedures, and train the accountanits in the manual of
procedures and use of the software. This firm will also be recruited for a period of two years to guarantee
the quality of ANCAR's accounts. These are conditionis of effectiveness.
PROGRAM COMPONENT 5: Support to Producer Organizations
33.    Senegal's rural sector is highly structured and producer organizations (POs) play a rapidly
growing role in its development. They first appeared in the forn of agricultural cooperatives whicl
comprise now 4500 village sections organized in 338 cooperatives. Since the seventies, iiumbers and
types of formal and informal organizationis have proliferated and now respond to the needs of all
categories of producers. In 1984 the "Economic Interest Groups" (GlEs) were formialized, giVil1g such1
groups legal status and permitting them to obtain credit. Womenl's groups, of whichi exist about 4000 in
the country, are particularly active at all levels of the rural economly, but womeni are also represented in
mixed agricultural POs. The latter work in all rural subsectors and are increasingly structured inlto
unions and federations, in order to be able to represent their members' interests at all adminiistrative
levels. A majority collaborate at nationial level througlh the CLonseil nationalc cde concerlation et tie
coop &ration des ruraux (CNCR).
34.    The Program  will help producer organizationis (at the nationial, regional and local levels)
strengthen their capabilities so as to be better able to provide services to producers, suchi as access to
inputs, product marketing, access to credit, access to informationi. Also, producer organizations are
expected to be able to carry out a diagnosis of their members' constrainlts, aggregate and prioritize their
needs and articulate them to research and extensionl services. They are also expected to take part in
adaptive research and be able to disseminate knowledge and inforimiation to their members.
35.    The Program will finance, onl a matchinig granit basis:
(a)    Training. The Programii will finanice training,, to strengtheni POs' organizational and
managerial capabilities upoIn POs' request. Traininig will be in the following domains: (i)
functional  literacy  and  numlieracy;  (ii)  organiizational  and  financial/accountilig
management for PO Board members; (iii) association rules and processes, including
cooperative and associative movement regulations; (iv) leadership skills; (v)
understanding the macro-economic and institutionial environment; (vi) participatory
diagnosis, including gender analysis; (vii) program/project formulation; (viii) the
organization and management of marketinlg and of inpuit supply delivery.
(b)    Communication. The Program will help producer organizations have access to means of
communication (rural radio, newspapers, videocassettes as well as less formal means of
communication: traditional thleater and songs) in order to communicate relevant
information to their members in technical, economic and organizational domains.
(c)    Support to production and processing technical innovations. The Program will finance
technical and management advice to assist producer organizations in the implementation
of economic activities (for example, specialized agricultural technical skills; preparation
of the documentation to access credit; micro-enterprise management; etc.) and a start-up
fund to support the adoption of innovations on a matching grant basis.
36.    This component will be implemented by ASPRODEB.  ASPRODEB  was created by 12
federations of producer organizations (including the nine federations of CNCR) and the Association of
the Presidents of Rural Communes to finance and implement grassroots development projects. AGEP,



Page 55
the present executing agency of ASPRODEB, operates under the governing bodies of ASPRODEB: the
General Assembly, the Board of Governors and the Supervision Committee. The General Assembly,
made up of two representatives for each producer organization federation, elects 14 members for three
years, with one possible reelection, to constitute the Board of Governors. The Supervision Committee of
five members is also elected by the General Assembly for three years. Among other duties, the Board
approves funding of development projects presented by the federations or their constituting unions or
associations. AGEP ensures that the approved projects are implemented and the Monitoring Committee
monitors the implementation and reports to the Board. Before August 31. 1999, ASPRODEB will carry
out a management audit of AGEP that will propose restructuring if necessary.
37.    Funding mechanism: the Demand-Driven Rural- Service Fund.  Three levels of producer
organizations will have access to funding under the component: (i) the local level POs (at the rural
communes or inter-communes level); (ii) the regional level (unions); (iii) the umbrella organization
(CNCR). All POs will have access to funding under the component whether or not they belong to a
Federation that is part of CNCR. Funding of regional and local POs' activities will be done at the request
of producer organizations, upon presentation of a sub-project proposal. Sub-project proposals will be
selected by regional or local coordinating committees made up of PO's representatives. The activities,
funded on a grant basis with participation from beneficiaries, will be the following: training,
communication, technical and management advice and start-up funding for technical innovation adoption.
The percentage of the project costs to be funded by the PO's themselves will depend upon the type of
activities and will range from 10% to 40% (less for training or communication, more for technical and
management advice or for technical innovation). The funding mechanism will be similar toDDRIFs,
except that in this case it will be a DDRSF. Procedures and criteria for sub-project selection, monitoring
and evaluation, and auditing will be specified in the "Support to POs'procedures Manual" (See below).
38.    Local and regional committees. At the local and regional level, POs' committees will be
established: Cadre Local de Concerialion des Organisations de Producteurs; (CLCOP) at the local level,
and Cadre Rgional de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs (CRCOP) at the regional level.
These committees will bring together representatives from local or regional POs respectively. rheir
mandate will be to provide a forum for POs to discuss and agree on common priorities, review POs'
project proposals and select them on the basis of the procedures and criteria presented in the "Subproject
Management Manual" approved by ASPRODEB. The procedure manual is being elaborated as part of
the experimental program presently underway (see below).  ASPRODEB will have to approve the
manual by December 31, 1999. Until the "Subproject management manual" is approved, the present
Manual of Procedures of the Small Rural Operations Project applies. Once a subproject is approved by
the CLCOP or the CRCOP, a contract will be established between ASPRODEB/AGEP and the PO,
specifying the activities, the contractor who will provide the services or the training, the results to be
achieved, the budget and the payment modalities. Subsequently, the role of theCLCOPs and CRCOPs
will be to monitor results.
39.    Role of NGOs. One or several NGOs will be recruited by ASPRODEB/AGEP to help establish
the CLCOPs and the CRCOPs, train the POs' representatives in proposal review and selection, and then
monitor results. The NGO will also prepare and recurrently update a data base of potential providers of
services and training-both national and external-which POs will be able to consult to identify the
service provider of their choice. The data base will also include a record of the performance of the
service providers.
40.    A progressive implementation. Because of the innovative, highly participatory and decentralized
approach for this component, the activities are already being tested in two out of the ten regions, in a
learning-by-doing mode. Under the Program, the activities will progressively be extended to all the
regions, on the basis of lessons learned and incorporated in the "Support to PO's" procedures manual.



Page 56
The testing phase began in January 1998 under the Small Rural Operations Project, in Senegal Oriental
(Tambacounda) and Haute-Casamance (Kolda). ASPRODEB/AGEP contracted with an NGO, the West
African Rural Foundation (WARF) to help establish the CLCOPs and CRCOPs. In addition to the
general role assigned to the NGO's, as described above, under its contract. WARF is expected to: (i)
design the procedure manual jointly with the CLCOPs and CRCOPs it is helping to establish; (ii) with
the same collaborative approach, identify and agree with POs' representatives the results the component
should achieve; (iii) determine the procedures for monitoring and evaluationi; (iv) elaborate and update a
data base of potential service and training providers; and (v) assess the support these providers will need
themselves (training of trainers). The test is planned for 24 months. An evaluationi of this testing phase is
planned by August 31, 1999. Before that date, the management of AGEP (Agence d'Ex6cution des
Projets) of ASPRODEB will have been audited. Lessons learnt will be incorporated into the 2000 plan of
work and budget for the component
41.    Strengthening CNCR capabilities:  This componienlt will support the strengtilelling of the
capabilities of CNCR leaders in their representation and advocacy role; their capabilities to analyze,
synthesize and-design strategic alternatives; and negotiate with public and private partners. To ward this
goal, the component will support: (i) training for CNCR leaders; (ii) communication and networkinig, with
the financing of a communications specialist; and (iii) the financinig of a monitorinig and evaluation
specialist who will be responsible for establishing a data base on POs. The database will include POs'
activities, the support they are obtaining under the present componenit and the results achieved. This will
be the basis for organizing exchanges and self-help among POs.
42.    Research, extension, and producer organizations collaborative R&D activities. The Research-
Development Committee will promote participatory techniology development activities between research,
extension and producer organizations. ISRA and ITA will develop contractual arrangemenits with a few
producer organizations and the extension services to jointly develop techinologies of interest to these
organizations. These partnerships will be established on a pilot basis. At the moment, partnershiips for
R&D activities are under experimentation in three agroecological zones-first ulider the Agricultural
Services Project and now tinder PPF financing-namely the Senegal River Basin (Podor); Haute-
Casamance (Kolda); and the Eastern Senegal (Kedougou).  Under the Program, funding for these
activities will come either from the DDRSF of ASPRODEB/AGEP, at POs' request, or will be the
product of a joint research/extension/PO's proposal presented to the NARF.
43.    Under R&D experimental phase, the Research-Development Committee is helping identify
potential partnerships, and provide support throughout implementation. It identifies technical assistance
when needed, organizes training in participatory technology development methods and organizes the
monitoring and evaluation of the activities and their results. It provides feedback to ISRA, ITA, ANCAR
and CNCR during the meetings of the Committee. It creates a network for coinmunication and exchange
among the various actors involved in participatory technology development activities throughout the
country. Finally, it promotes the diffusion of results by working with the diffusion units of each agency.
An evaluation of these experimental activities and incorporation of lessons learnt into the 2000 annual
work program and budget are planned before August 3 1, 1999.



Page 57
PROGRAM COMPONENT 6 and 7: Support key Ministries' functions: (Agriculture and
Livestock) and specific livestock activities
44.    Devolution of Ministries headquarters services to the regional and departmental levels. The
Program will assist the Ministries devolve their services to the regional and departmenit level by providing
funding and support to: (i) equip these services (mainly vehicles, computer equipment and, for animal
production, simple equipment to test the quality of drmgs and consumer animal products); (ii) to train staff
for their new functions, in particular, in data collection, management and analysis; (iii) elaborate
procedures to define the role and functions of the regional and departmental services within the Ministry
and vis-a-vis their clients and stakeholders.  To this end, some of the headquarters staff will be
redeployed towards the regions. A skill gap analysis was prepared as a conditioni of negotiations. An
inventory of physical assets was also prepared as a condition for negotiations.  Completion of the
personnel redeployment will be a condition of effectiveness.
45.    Share of responsibilities between the ministries' services and the parastatal agtencies. Studies to
that effect will be carried out. Decisions concerning a redefinitioni of share of responsibilities between
the ministries and the parastatal agencies (SRDR), based on the recommenidationis of these studies, will be
a trigger condition for the second phase.
46.    Quality control and regulatory functions. These funictionis concern the Directorates of Livestock
and of Crop Production. The capacity of the nationial and regional services to ascertain quality control
will be enhanced through training in quality control and management and development of a reporting
system. In addition, quality control will be redefined to encompass the prevention of market failures.
Training courses will be organized to improve and standardize the quality of the services provided by
veterinary, pest control and seed certification personiel. The regulatory funictionis of the ML will be
strengthened through national programs for epizootic diseases control and for improved food safety
control. These programs will include legislation, training and the creation of Regional Inspections, a
National Committee for Food Quality, and a National Disease Surveillalice Network.
47.    Strengthiening of statistical analysis, policy analysis and monitorinig and evaluation functionis.
The Program will assist the MA and the ML in establishing an efficient, reliable and rapid data collection
and analysis system through: (i) a simplification of the procedures; (ii) decentralization of the functions
to the regional and departmental level; and (iii) training in methodology for data collection and analysis.
The Program will introduce the use of a number of less costly and more efficient computerized data
collection instruments, such as remote sensing and improved statistical methods. Programs such as
National Livestock Survey, Drought Preparedness and Livestock Modelization will be implemented by
the ML.
48.    Training. The Program will support an important training component, not only for the above
functions but for the Ministries as a whole.  The training program  will have three objectives: (i)
sensitization to the Ministries' new role; (ii) improved management, especially for the new human
resources management unit and the financial and administrative management Directorate of the MA and
ML; and (iii) improving technical skills. As part of improving human resource development and
management, a directorate for human resources management will be created. An internal organization
and procedure manual will be elaborated, including terms of reference for the positions and procedures
for programming, monitoring and evaluation.   The draft of this manual was  reviewed during
negotiations.
49.    Support to privatization.  The Program  will support the further privatization of veterinarian
services, pest control services, and seed multiplication through initial training in business management, a
service for advice upon request, and a start-up fund, on a matching grant basis.



Page 58
50.    Construction and rehabilitation.  The Program will help the Ministry of Agriculture to build or
rehabilitate a building for its headquarters in order to regroup its presently dispersed directorates.  The
rehabilitation of food inspection services (including the ones of the airport and of the harbour), and the
construction of 30 traditional butcher shops following standard hygiene norms are part of the Program.
The shops will be managed by private butchers. A special disseminiationi program will promote this type
of constructions.  In addition, four regional laboratories, three quaranitinie centers, five veterinarian
services and ten vaccination centers will be either constructed or rehabilitated.
51.    Ministry of Agriculture network of laboratories. A study to rationalize the managemilent of the
Ministry of Agriculture network of laboratories will be uLidertakeni in order to determine the extent to
which they should continue to be managed by the Ministry or whether some of themil should be
transferred to other entities.  The study will also determine the humanlia  resources and equipment needed
for their adequate functioning.



Page 59
ANNEX III
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Estimated Project Costs



SENECA)
Agncultural Services and Producer Orgaizations Program
Program Components in 3 Phases, by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies                                                                                Grand Total
1999      2000       2001       Total        2002       2003      2004       Total        2005       2006       2007        2008      Total        0 years
A. Restucturing the Ministry of Agriculture
Headquarters                                                          896 9    2.9919       801 8    4,490.6        390 3     3996      1,059.3    1,849.1       801 8      801 8       8018       801 8    3,207.2      9,546.9
10 Regonal Offies                                                    2.951.0    1,153.3     7233      4,827.5       7409      7589     3.841      5,383.9        7233       7233       7233        7233     2,893.1     13,104.5
SubtotalRestructuringtheMinistryofAgncultume                             3,6479    4,1452      1,525.1    9,318.1      1,131 1   1.1585    4,9434     7,233.0       1.5251     1,5251     1.525.1    1.5251     6,100.3     22,651.4
B. Ministry of Uveetock
Headquarters                                                             86.2       58 4       59 7      204.3         24 0      24 5      133 5      182.0         59 7       59 7       59 7        59 7      238.9        625.2
Improono OQualityControl olAfnimal-based Food Products                  4439       4766       2975      1,218.0       21S1      2223       1934       630.8        2975       2975       2975        2975     1,190.1      3,038.9
Improving LivestGck Health                                             1.703 4     463 7      365 9    2,573.0        776 3     368 5      477 9    1,622.7        385 9      385 9      385 9       385 9    1,543.7      5,739.4
Improvnrg Livestocklr nfornation                                       1.40866      196 1     122 4     1.697 3       129 9     132 7      422 2      684.8        122 4      122 4      122 4       122 4      489.0      2,871.6
Subtotal Ministry of Livestock                                             1397       94 2       96 4      320.4       1,145      748 0     1.2270    3,120.3         96 4       96 4       96 4        96 4      3895.7     3,836.4
C. Stengthening the Dir. Dette et In,. (DDI)
1. Strenglhening the DDI                                                252 6      231 8      236 5      790 S          0 0       0.0        0 0        0 0          0 0        0 0        0 0         0 0       0 0         720.9
Subtotal Strengthening the bir. Dette et Inv. (DDI)                       2526       231 a      2336       720.9          00        00         00         0.0          00         00         00         00          00         720.9
C. Institut de Technologie Alimentaires (ITA)
a. ITA Proects
Management Unit (Direction Generale)                                 746 5      809 3      479 2    2,036.C       335 2     4507       512 2    1,298.1        479 2      479 2       479 2      479 2     1,916.6      5,249.7
c. Other ITA Programs
ITA-funded Protects/a                                                 253        703        526       148.7          62       00         00         8.2          00         00          00         00         00         156.9
OtherDonor-fundedProjectslb                                          1183                     .       118.3          00       00         00         0.0          00         00          00         00         0.0        118.3
SubtotalOtherlTAPrograms                                               1436        708        526       267.0         82        00         00         8.2         526         526        526        526       210.5        489.7
SubtotallnstitutdeTechnologieAlimentaires(ITA)                           8901       8801      5318      2,302.0       3434      4507       5122      1,306.3       5318       5318        5318       5316     2,127.1       5,735.4
D.Institut Sinltgalais de Recherche Agr5cole (ISRA)
a.SupporttoManagementUnit(Directiong*n*rale)                           2951       2968       1812       773.1        1853     1774       3281       690.8         1812       1812       1812       1812       724.8       2,188.8
b. National Research Units
Crop Producbon                                                       156 9      250 7       10 2      423.8        16 6       7.9      244.8      269.3          16 2       16 2       16 2       16 2       65.0        758.1
Forestry                                                             113 1       98 4       16 2      227.7        16 6       1 7       816       109.9          16 2       16 2       16 2       16 2       65.0        402.6
Aninmal Producbon                                                    167 8      1319        11 I      310.9         114       63        104 5     122.2          11 1       11 1       11 1       11 1       44.5        477.6
Agicultural Poicy                                                     208       1599        11 1      191.9          62        10       1354      142.5          11 1       111        11 1       11 1       44.5        379.0 
Subtotal N*fion,I Research Units                                       458 7      640 9       54 9    1,154.3        50 9      26 9      566 2      644.0          54         54 8       54 8       54 8      219.0       2,017.3       *D
c. Regional Re"amch Units                                                                                                                                                                                                                ID
LowerandMddleCasamance                                                918       2598        438       390.4        440       334       1104       189.1         438         438        438        438       175.1        759.6
EasternandUpperCasanrance                                            1428       6563        430       8420         440       329       1344       211.3         430         430        430        430       171.9       1,2252        Cr
South PeanutBasmr                                                    1148       4422        282       585.2         *33        15      1359       150.7         282         282        292        262       112.9        848.8
Cental Norenm Peanut Basn                                            1056       2061       4346       746.3         129        10       1503      164.2         4346       4346       4346       4346      1,738.4      2,648.9
Senegal Rmer6 Bas                                                     958       2066       2026       505.1        289         I5      1508       181.2         2028       2028       2028       2028       811.1       1,497.4
Sytvopastoral Zone                                                   1229       191 3      4346       748.8        285         1 0      1503      479.7         4346       4346       4346       4346      1,738.4      2,667.0
N,yaes Zones                                                          682       2292        434       360.8        445       174       1709       232.9          434        434        434        434       173.7        767.4
Mantme Zone                                                           841       1738        434       3013         445        174       1147      176.6          434        434        434        434       173.7        651.7
Subtotal Regional Research Unrls                                       845 8    2 365 2    1 273 8    4,484.9       261 5      106 4    1 1177     1,485.7      1 273 8    1 273 8     1 273 6    1,273 8    5,095.3     11,065.9
Subtotal Strengthen Institut S6ngalais de Recherche Agricole (ISRA)    15996      33029      1 5098     6,412.3       4978      3106      20121      2,820.5      1.5098     1 5096     1 5098      1 5098    6,039.2      15,272.0
Subtotal Agricultunl Research                                            2 489 7    4 183 0    2 041 6    8,714 3       841 2     7613    2,5243       4,126.8      2,041 6    2.041 6    2.041 6    2 041 6    8,166.3      21,007 4
E Naitinal Agricultunl Research Fund
1 NARF-ManagementUmt                                                    3560       2756       2931       9249_        211i0     2157       2206       647.3        2157       2150        z157       2157       8629        2.4351
2 NawonalAgncu,ural Research Fund (NARF)                                 774 7    1186 3     1 620 3    3,583.3      1 964 0    1.906 1    1 9493    5,719 4      1 906 1    1 906 1    1 906 1    1 906 1    7,624.6      16,927.3
Subtotal National Agriculhurl Research Fund                              1.130 7    1.464 2    1913 4    4,008.3       2 075 0   21219      2,1699    6,366.7       2,1219     21219      2 1219     21219      8,487 5      19,362.4
F. AgricuBural Extension
1 ANCAR Headquarters                                                     695 7    1 033 8     729 6     2,459.3       14 40     49 1       094 8    1,674.7        7298        729 6      729 0      729 6    2,919.4       7,053.4
2 Regional Extension Programs to improue Eatensron Services            1.620 C    2 883 6    2 902 6    7,356.:      2 b86 0   2 011 6    2.4913     7,088 9      2,852 6    2 652 6    2,852 6    2 852 6   11,410 6      25,855.6
3 Pilot Program in Natural Resources Management                          511 1      213 1      393 2    1,117 4       576 6     244 9       76 4    1,200.0        393 2       393 2      393 2      393 2    1,572 9       3,890.2
Subtotal Agricultural Extension                                          28267      41305    39767    13,933.0         33494    2.7517      35625    9,963.6        3,9757     39707      39757      39757    15,902.8       36,7993
G. Producer Organizations
1. Building Capacity of Local Producers Organizations
Access to Senvices Fund                                                251 9      590 1      9839     1,8256       1 4707    1 637 1    17566      4,870.4      1 637 1    1 637 1    16371       1 637 1    6,548.3     13,244.5
Techmical Eeacuon                                                      5154       5824       3809     1,478.8        2463     221 9      2262       6943          2218       221 8      22 18      221 8      887.0       3,060.1
Subtotal BuildingCapacity ofLocal Producers Organizations                7673     1,1725     1,3648    3,304.6       ,7229    1.8588      19828    5,564.6        1.85808    1.956      168580      1.8588    7,435.4      16,304.6
2. Building Capacities of National and Regional POs
Supporto Researh and Development                                        559        502        512       157.3        41 1      421        490       1322           42 1      42 1        42 1       421       168.3        457.8
Communrcations Program Development                                     2102       1379       1484       496.5        1770      1039      2408       521.7         1039       1039       1039       1039       415.5       1,433.7
Strengthening Naoona PO Capaaty                                        2165       1404       121 2      .80.4       '20b      1229       1936       437.0         1229       1229       1229       1229       491.7       1,409.1
Financal Management, Execution and Audnting                            1463       1493       1523       447.9         682      696        71 1      208.8          696        696        696        696       278.4        935.0
Subtotal uilding Capacities of National and Regional POs                 6310       477 6      473 3    1,582.0       406 7     330 5      554 5    1.299 7        338 5       338 5      338 5      338 5    1,353.9       4,235.7
Subtotal ProducerOrganizations                                           1.398.3    1,650.3    1.8381    4.886 C       2.129 7   2197 3    2 5374    6,864.4        2.197 3    2 197 3    2.197 3    2,197 3    8,789.3      20,540.2
H. PPF Financing
1. PPF Refinanang                                                      2.000 0                          2,0t 0          0 0       0 0        0 0        0.0          0 0        0 0         0 0        00         0.0       2,000.0
Subtotal PPF Financing                                                   2.000 0         .          .    2,00.9    -      00        0 0        0 0        0.0          0 0         0 0        0 0        0 0        0.0       2,000.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     17,5280    17.0840    12,4922   47,1C4.2      10 971 6   9.7387    16,9644    37.6747       9,7387     97387      9 7387      9.7387    38,954.6    123,733.6
\a Inaudes: proects on couscaus, watermelon. staabilsation de boisson . concept,on d'un cuiseur and lomo
\b Includes: uanthane (ITA-CEA) and aam (ITA-CRDI) projects                                                                Page 1                                                                                                            3phases2.



SENEGAL
AgriculturI Serie and Professional OrganizationsPrnrrn(lename PSA3Y. 5IMar 21 1999)
Components Project Cost Sumnmry
(CFA Francs Million)               (US$ 000)              Forign   Bane
L..e]  Foreign   Total       Local     Foreign      Total   E-ohange Costs
A. Restructuring the Ministry of Agnuolture
i. teldquertsnrs end Regional Offices
Headquarern                                                                      1,254    1.008    2.262     2,280.0     1.8332     4113.2        45       9
10 Regional Offices                                                                878      `66    2444       1.596 8    28473      4.4442        64      10
Subtotal Restrunturing the Ministry of Agriculture                                   2.132     -u74    4,707      3876.8     4,6006     8,557 4       55      20
B. Ministry of Liestock
Headquarters                                                                          66       39       105      1194         718       191,2       38        -
Impo-gQuality ConPtrolofArirnal-tasedFood Products                                   374      250      624       6791        4551      1.1342       40       3
Irmonving Livestock HetIh                                                            606      707    1.312      1,101.0    1,2849     2,385.9       54       S
nWtinsngLienskckInlontration                                                         666      202       869     1,21t.8      367.5    1,5793        23        4
Und ofMondorng & Enalaton                                                             57      III       168      1037        2011       3048        66        1
SubtolUaMinistryofUwesock                                                            1,768    1.309    3,077      3.2151     2.2803      5,5954       43       13
C. Sengthening th Oie Deltte etoInv (DOI)
1. Strengtee'g the DDIC                                                              362       18      380       65980        32C       691.0        5       2
SubtsotI Strengtheing the Dirl Dette*lt lnv (DOt)                                      362       18      380       659 0        32 0      691 0        5       2
D. Agricultuntl Reseaech
1. labsttutedp Technologi Aiitim inun (ITA)
e. IA ProjecU
ManagentUndt(5n aon~G.re)                                                        538      488    1.027       9789       5877      1.86666       48       4
e Other WA Pregame
ITA-fatedd Peeects Ia                                                             33       41       74        600         752       1352        56
0th  ornorlitandedProntects b                                                     25       37       61        45          664        i1 5       60
Sulbf  IOth rlTA P-gngns,                                                          58       78       136      105 1       1416       246 7       57        1
Svbt11tktnsdtitdutl do T ogie   Altimnteirae (FTA)                                   596      566    1,162      1.084 0    1,0293      2.113 3      49        5
2 SW-nte   Wistute  SOAiaas e Rd ehelhe Agricole jISRA)
a Sope-ltohfaoage Uneeer ntsr)nmra genoe                                           173      219       392      3134        3981       7136        56       2
b Nlieeonal Reneaih Uits
CnMP PnnKss                                                                       76      140      21,       1374        2536       391.0       65        1                                                                                               '-V
Foreory                                                                           35       e1      117        643        147.5      211.8       70        .
Anwrial Prodes                                                                    54      105       159       574        1908       2882        66        1                                                                                              On
A -        Pocy                                                                   32       65        97       580        1187       1767        67        -                                                                                               (D
Sa      Nlwhbont Resech Unnts                                                      196      391       587       357 0      710 7     1,067.7      67        2
o Regaetl Research Uenits                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   d
Loiie,rnWdt.ndM  Casenance                                                        64      137      201        1156       2497       3653        68        1
Ease   nd Uppe Casarsntce                                                        196      235      425       3452        4280       7731        55       2
Sauh Peanut Basan                                                                120      176      296       2186        3197       5383        59        1
Cten4lNNognnePeanutwna                                                           165      207      372       3003        3759       6762        56       2
Senegal River Bain                                                                92      162      254       168 0       294 0      462 0       64        1
Sylnopastorel Zone                                                               170      203      373       3092        3603       6775        54       2
Nfyee Zones                                                                       50      134       184       909        2429       3337        73        1
Macbone Zone                                                                      38      116      154        691        2106       2797        75        1
Subtotal Regional Research Units                                                   889    1 369    2 250      1616 7     2 4091    4.105 9        61        9
Subtotal StengthtenInsttitut ntgais do Recherche Agnoole (1SRA)                     1.259    1979    3238       22892      3.5980      508872       61       14
Subtotal Agricultural Research                                                        1.855    2.545    4,400     3.373 2    4 627 3     60000 5      58       18
E. National Agricultural Research Fund
I. NAMF - Management Unit                                                            272      250      472       494 8       363 9      050 7       42       2
2. National Agrcuuoral Researh Fund (NARF)                                           863      925    1 700      1 5682      1.0824     32507        52        7
Subtotal National Agricutural Research Fuod                                          1.135    1.125    2260       2.063 1    2 0463      4,109 4      50        9
F. Agricultural Entenriin
1 ANCAR Headquarlers                                                                534      712    1 246       9710      1,294.3     2,265 2      57        5
2. Regional Extension Programs to Improne Eotenoi.n Servic,es                      1.678    1.989    3.668      3,051 6    3,6171    6.660 8        54       15
3. Pilot Programin Natural Resources Management                                      357      213       570      640.0       3874      10361        37        2
Subtotal Agriculturel E-mntion                                                       2.569    2 914    5,484      4,671 4    5,2900      9.9702       53       23
G. Producer OrganizaiSons
1. Building Capacity of Local Produce' Organiations
Access to Semces Fund                                                              901       20       929     1.630 4       515      1,689 9       3        4
Technical Eaecoion                                                                 757              3757      13701                  13761                  3
Subtotal uilding Capacity of Local Producen Organizations                          1,658       20    1.686      3,014 6       515      3,066 0       2        7
2. Building Capacities of National and Regional POs
Supporto Research and Develupmnct                                                   77        3        79 5      39 1 99              144 0        3
Communicatons Program Deuotnpmern                                                  228       23       251      413 9        41 6      455 5        9        1
Strengthonin National PO Capacity                                                  228       15       243      4148         267       441 0        6
Financial Management. Ec.cution and Auditing                                       237               237       4304                   430 4         .       I
Subtotal sliding Capacities of Notional and Regional POs                             769       40       809     1 398 2       731      1.471 3       S        3
Subtotal Producer Organiations                                                       2.427       69    2.496      4.4127       1246      45373        3       10
H. PPF Financing
1. PPF ReInancing                                                                            1 1.100    -.157        .     20OL0      2.0000       100        5
Subtotal PPF Financing                                                                    .    1.100    1.100           -    20500       2000 0      105        5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                 12.249   11,654   235904    22.271 2    21 189 9    43 461 1      49     100
Physical Conlngencins                                                                477      495      972       667 0       900;      1.767 5      51        4
Pice Contingenes                                                                     527      504    1.032       950 7        i6 9     1 675 6      49        4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                  13.253   12654   25907    24.0969    23,0073    471042            49     108
Ia Includes: projects on couscous, motonon, "stabilitsain do Sis-on", cdnnnptimn dun cuiseur and fon,o
\b Inlcudos: calhane (ITA-CEA) and ataw (ITA-CRDI) projects
Page 1                                                                                                                Sum-com do



Comyl xis
SENEGAL
Agr1cuuai Sorur-es and Profssional Organirabon Program (illnam,   PSA3Y-  SlMar 21. 1999)
Project Compon nts by Y.ar - Totals Includ.g ContinganciCs
Totals Including Contingancree
(CPA FrancsaMillion)         Total Including Contingn ie (US$000)
1999    2000    2001    Total      1999       209         2001       Total
A. Reetsbustuang the Minitry of Agricuftur
1. Httdq-utr nndR gion lOff-.tt
Headqsnaeand                                                                     383   1646      441    2.470       696 9     2.9919       801.8     4.490 6
10ReonalOttIces                                                                1.623     634     398    2.655      2,9510     1.153 3      723 3     4.827 5
SubtotalR tRtuctiningtheMinity ofAgvduiltou                                        2006   2.280      839    5.125      3.6479     4145 2      1.5251     9.3181
B. Ministry sd Liessocik
HadrWartrn                                                                          47      32      33       112       962         584        597       2043
Improving Quality Cotol ftA-a dbas  Food Poduds                                    244     262     164      670       4439        4766       2975      1.2180
Improong Liveetock Heatlh                                                          937     266     212    1415       1.703 4      483 7      385 9     2.573 0
Improving Livestock Intonaton                                                      775      91      67       934     1,408 8      1661       122 4     1,697 3
Un of Monitoring b&  oluabo                                                         77      52      53       182      139.7        942        964       3304
SobtotaI Ministry s Uveock                                                         2,080     703     529    3.313      3.782 0    1.279 1      962 0     6.023 1
C. Strngthaning th Dir. Dtta at Inn (DDI)
I Slrngllening the D)DI                                                            139     127     130      396       252 6      2318        236 5      720 9
Subtotal Strngthaningth. Dir. D  tteet In. (DOI)                                     139     127     130      396       2526       2318        2365       7209
D. AgicaulerI Resoarch
1. Institt d Technolgie Alimentairs (ITA)
a. ITA Projotta
Manaeement Und(Drerctonconrrale)                                              411      445     264    1.119       7465b       092        4792      2,0350
c Othr ITA Progrms
ITA-bnded Projolst I                                                            14      39      29       02        253         708        526       1407
Olher Donor-hundd Projeclslb                                                   65        -       -       65       118 3          -                  116 3
Subtotal Other TA Programs                                                        79      39      29       147      1436         708        526       2670
Subtstllnsetutde Tnchnologi Alimnntairs (ITA)                                      490     404     29      1.266      8901        8801       531 0     2.302 0
2. Strengthen Institet Sdnegalais da Recherce Ag-ico  (ISRA)
a Support IManagenemtoUmil(Dir-cSon   raio                                       162     763    lu       425       29b1       2768        1812       7731
b. National Research Units
Crop Producion                                                                  66     138       9      233       156S       2507         162       4230
Forestry                                                                       62       54       9      125       1131         904        162       2277 
Anml Produchon                                                                  92      73       6       171      1678         3129       11 1      3109 91
Agncouloral Policy                                                             I1       68       6       106       20 6       159 9       11 1      1919 9
Subtotal Ntional Reseach Units                                                   252     352      30      635       4587        6409        548      1,1543 3D
c. Ragisnal Research Unite
Lover and Middle Casamanco                                                      50     143      24      217        918       259 0        43 8      395 4
Easteon and UpperCsamanco                                                       79     361      24      463       1420       6563         430       8420
Sout Peanut Basin                                                               63     243      16      322       1148       4422         282       5852
Centr-alNorN hem Panut Basm                                                     58     113     239      410       1056        2061       4346       7463
Seosgal Ri-r Basi                                                               53     114     112      278        958       2066        2020       5051
Sylopastorl Zone                                                                60     105     239      412       1229        1913       4346       7409
Niya". Zones                                                                    40     126      24       198       882       2292         434       3608
Man6m Zone                                                                      46      96      24      166        041        173 8       43 4      301 3
Subtotal Regional Res"arch Units                                                 465   1,301     701    2.467       045 8     2.365 2     1.273 8    4.484 9
Subtotal Strmngtnn 1nsttut S6nigalais de Recherche Agricol (ISRA)                  880   1.817     030    3 527      1599 6     3 302 9     1.509 8    6 412 3
Subtotal Agricutral Research                                                       1,369   2.301    1,123    4,793     2.409 7    4.183,0    2.0416      8.714 3
E. Natonal Agriculturl Research Fund
I NARF - Maegemel Uol                                                              196     152     161      509       3560       2750        2931       9249
2 NabonalAgicuhur1 Ro-searh Fund (NARF)                                            426     654     891    1.971       7747      1.1883      16203      25833
Subtotal National Agricultrual Rsearh Fund                                           622     805   1.052    2,460      1.130 7    1.464 2     1.913 4    4.508 3
F. Agricuhrul Entansisn
I ANCAR Headquarnrs                                                                383     569     401     1.353      695 7     1 033 0      729 0     2 459 3
2 Regmoal Evt-noion Pmorrn toi n -or onEut.nsioSn.r-ce.s                           091    1566   1569    4 046       1620 0     2 083 6    2 052 6     7 356 2
3 Piot Pgnta  i Natural Resoures Maagomenl                                         281     117     216      615       511 1       2131       3932      1 1174
Subtotal Agricuttunl Eotnuion                                                      1,555   2 272   2167    6,013       2,826 7    40130 5    3,9757   710933 0
G. Producer Orga-niztions
i. Building Caparity of Local Producero Organiations
A-asotaSet    s Fund                                                             139     325     541     1 004      2519        590 1      9839      1 8258
Teodentt Eveobon                                                                 283     320     210       813      5154        5824       3809      14700
Subtotalit dingCapacityofLocalPoduocertOrganizatios                                422     645     751    1,018       7673      1 1725      13648      3.3040
2 Bedding Capacitien of National and Regional PO.
SutpopnttoRe---ch ndDevo    rebnrn                                                31      28      28        86       5b9         502        512        1573
ComminatcatieunProWn5nmo;nment                                                   116      76      52       273      2102        1379        1404       4965
Stnrthaintg NaonalPOCaP-ty                                                       720      77      67       264      2105        1404        1215       4804
FinancldMlanagranrttenE-on andAudnlog                                             00     02       04       246       1463       1493       1523        4479
Subtoldutal u CingCarp  cibe   Natonal and RegionalPO.                             347     263     260       870      6310        4778       4733      158020
SubtoaPltucOrgd Ontitizob                                                            769     908   1011      2688      13983       16503      1.8381     4.8856
H PPm Fetanceg
1 PPFR - unong                                                                   1100        -             I 716     20000            -          -    200000
sut   Pm Penncing                                                                  1100        .             1 100     2 000D0                     -    2 0000 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                 9 640   9 396   6 577   25.907    17 520 0    17 084 0    12 492 2    47 104 2
inrldes pmycton -oi-      S noenWreIon  sutbdms-oo Or boss     corptu- dun -s-ur and Ion
b Includes oire  (ITACEA) and arra  (ITA-CRDlI pr,1ndo
Pago I



sr  i-^                                                                                   -- o                P 
E                       r g   E    S  E   Z  1 _
SI,~~~~~
a *                      --                                           -            -0--~..... ..
ct ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~t
Zs __                  _! _t _          >u             gX          "    t    t aW  t    I0                  8   oYt;X >S
u    uw  wW    y0      ococ   n a          4-Aw s g w     2  o   s o wwow       .       s      O      js.so                os i
t o ~~~~~~. . .    ....... . ... .   .... .   S.  . ...  .  SSS... ..... .e S
M ~~~~~~~~~~~.                            .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   W.  .   .   . ....>at 0
.       . . . . _           u. .   .   . .  .   . . . .  .  .  . . . . . . . . .   .   .   .. . . ... .   . .   . .... . . .   .   . ..e  
jO ~~~~~~~~~.  Oi, ..ou.,IW_ .... . . . .  ................. .   .......  . . .  .. .  .  . .  ........ .  ....>'
o22      (400(4 0          22232           W             (      3 A                   0                Vu
eg36ed



Agneultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Expenditures Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contngenaes
(USS'000)
Ministry of  Ministry of  Strengthening
Agriculture  Uvestock     the DDt           ITA             ISRA          NARF        ANCAR         OP          PPF
Total
1. Investment Costs
A. ChMI WorkS
Conrsucbon of Wells                                          -                                                                                 90 4                       -       90 4
RehatalitaDon of Buildings/Land Lots                   2.208 1      417 5                             492 6       1,773 5                     421 4                       -    5.313 1
Subtotal CvllWorks                                       2.2081       4175                              4926        1.7735                      511 8                            54035
B. Vehicles
Veh;des 4x4 (DC, other)                                2,4831        50 2                              361        1253 4             -        916 4        50 2                4 789 5
Sedanrs/Bedine                                               -       562                               562          2091          551         3116            -                  6883
Motorcycles                                                         409 0              -                  -          78 3            -      1.746 9                            2 234 2
Subtotal Vehicles                                        2.4831       515 5                               92 4       1540 8         551       2.975 0        50 2                7.712 0
C. Agricultural and ScIentifIc Equipment                       -          -                                               -            -            -           -
Laboratory Equipment                                                146 0                               86 5        5101             -          2 0                              744 6
Agncultural Equipment                                                                                      -        291 1            -          3 3           -                  294 4
Subtotal Agricultural and Sclentmfic Equipment                 -      146 0              -               86 5         801 1            -          5 3                       -    1 039 0
D. Equipment and Materials                                                                                  .             .            -            -
Computerand Oftha Equipment                              3610       303 2           32 5                391         295 4         31 1        783 8        610            -    1907 2
Communicabon and Training Equipment /a                       -      127 6                              108 3          2 0            -        134 7           -           -      372 6
Other Equipment/b                                          80       2417               -               1068          701             -         235         703                   5225
Fumiture                                                   7.6                       31                1122          121             -        4421          15            -      5786
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                           3767       6725            356               3684          3796          31 1      1,384 1       1329                 3.3809
E. Specialist Services                                         -
Intemabonal Consultants                                  324 8          -              -               610          306 5            -      1.0081            -           -    1.700 3
Nabonal Consultants                                      252 9       30 4              -              278 8             -            -            -     2 062 2                2 624 3
Subtotal Specialist Sereices                               577 7       30 4                             339 8         306 5                   1.008 1     2.062 2           -    4 324 6
F. Studies. Evaluations and Surveys                            -      4508               -                  -             -        2394          8859           -                  7792                                           tu
G. Training                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0)
Local                                                    527 5      830 7           65 7                             64 4                     8980      15942                  39805l
Overseas                                                     -      170 4              ,                90 0       1066 4            -            -           -                1326 9
Travel                                                   251.6       58 8              -                                -                      80 7                              3911                                           0'
Altomances/perdiem                                           ,      755 5              ,                             46 7                      25 6                              827 8                                          I-
Scholarships. Funds and Grants                               -      102 4              -                53 9            -                  -            1.047 0           -    1 203 4
Documentabon Matenats                                                   ,                                             0 8                         -                                0 8
Subtotal Training                                          779 0    1,917 9           65 7               143 9       1 178 2           -      1004 3      2.6413            -    7,730 4
H PPF Refinanong                                               -          -              ,                   ,            -            -            -                 2 000 0    2 000 0
Total Investment Costs                                     6 424 6    4.150 6          101 3             1.523 6      5 979 7        325 6      6.977 6     4 886 6     2.000 0   32.369 5
Ht. Recurrent Costs k                                                                                          .
A Incremental Staff Salanes                                    -          -          611 5                221          273         2986          299            -           -      9892
B. Opention and Maintenance
Etsldings and Plots                                      457 3        0 5              -                   -        227 7        169 4                  -                 -      855 0
Vehicles and Motorcycles /c                            1 314 0      522 1              -                43 2         42 5         33 9        946 5           -                2.902 2
Offce/ComputerEquipment                                  2252       1169             81                 158           99          191         3860                               7812
Otherbquipment /d                                            -       67 8              -                                             -            -                       -       67 8
Subtotal Operation and Maintenance                       1996 5       707 3            81                 59 0        2801         222 4       1332 6                            4 6061
C. Opeating and Administrative Expenses                                   -
Travel and Subsistence                                       -      237 6              -                62 9         48 3                      67 7                              416 6
Office Supples                                           5210        40 I                               20 7         26 6            -        424 0                             1032 3
Agncultural Supples                                          -          -              -                             35 8            -            -                               35 8
Subtotal Operating and Administntive Expenses              521 3      2777                                836         1107             -        491 7                       -    14846
D Oter Supplies /e                                             -        4 5                              119 0         66 7            -            -                       -      190 2
E OberOperabngE.penses/t                                   1575       8831                               1849          155       36616          8723            -            57750
F Ubintes                                                  109 7          -              -                            199 3            -       1 228 9                            1 537 9
G Carlnsurance                                             13859          -                               427             ,            -            -           -                  151 i
TotalRecuqnentCosts                                        28936      18725            6196                5114         6996       41826         39554            -                147347
ToEta PROJECT COSTS                                         9 < 8 1    6 023 1         720 9              2 035 5      6 679 3      4 509 3     10 933 0     4 896 6     2 000 0   47 104 2
Taxes                                                    25171        7411             87                4389        18786          744       20446         2544                  79581
Foreign Exchange                                         51218      2 56 9            34 7               970 7       4 055 5     2 2615        5 841 4      134 6     2 000 0   23 007 3
%a Includes aud,o-mvsuals. conference room equipment documentation matenals
%b Includes satellte images, generators, air conditioners, mobile rad.os machmes and tools for workshops
%c Calculated at 20% o0 necle pnoce or CFA 5 625/eh,de/yr (I e for 25000 krehecle/year 1 CFA 225F/km) and CFA 35000/molorcyclnde
vd Includes agncwltural equipment, air conditboning
ve Laboratory, chemicals, machinery supplies tools
It Building rentals, cost of evaluabons. studies. surveys, commumcatonscosts tees for contracted services
Page 1                                                                                             EXACCCOM uIs



Lftfin.xls
SENEGAL
Agricultural Services and Professional Organizations Program (filename: PSA3Y-15/Mar. 21, 1999)
Local/ForeignlTaxes by Financiers
(CFA Francs Mil!ion)
International                    International Fund
Development                          for Agric.
The Government       Association         Other          Development        Beneficiaries         Total
Amount    %        Amount      %    Amount   %        Amount       %     Amount   %         Amount      %
I. Foreign                      1,942.3    15.3    8,716.2    68.9    39.0      0.3    1,953.1     15.4      3.4       -   12,654.0    48.8
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)         1,027.1    11.6    6,360.1    71.7    16.5      0.2    1,353.5     15.2   119.2      1.3    8,876.4    34.3
III. Taxes                      4,376.9   100.0                  -        -       -          -        -        -       -    4,376.9    16.9
Total Project                      7,346.3    28.4   15,076.3    58.2    55.5     0.2    3,306.6      12.8   122.6      0.5   25,907.3   100.0
(D
Page 1



Lftfin.xls
SENEGAL
Agricultural Services and Professional Organizations Program (filename: PSA3Y-1 5/Mar. 21, 1999)
LocallForeign/Taxes by Financiers
(USS '000)
Intemational                    International Fund
Development                         for Agric.
The Govemment        Association         Other          Development       Beneficiaries         Total
Amount    %        Amount    %    Amount   %          Amount       %     Amount   %        Amount      %
1. Foreign                       3,531.5    15.3   15,847.6    68.9    70.9     0.3    3,551.0     15.4     6.2       -   23,007.3    48.8
II. Local(Excl.Taxes)            1,867.4    11.6   11,563.8    71.7    29.9    0.2    2,461.0      15.2   216.8     1.3   16,138.9    34.3
Ill. Taxes                       7,958.1   100.0         -       -       -       -          -         -       -       -    7,958.1    16.9
Total Project                     13,357.0    28.4   27,411.5    58.2   100.9     0.2    6,012.0     12.8   222.9      0.5   47,104.2   100.0
Page 1



Page 67
ANNEX IV
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
The project benefits taken into account il this economilic analysis have been the increase in
national agricultural production, net of additional on-farm investimienit and inputs, due to the adoption by
farmers of the technical packages proposed ulider the programi. Thlese packages will be designed in
association with the farmers themiiselves and with their organizations.  Tlhe agricultuLal production
includes the cropping activities, which represent about 60%  of the added value of the sector, and the
livestock activities whicih represent about 40%. Most of this productioll comes from smallholders wvho
represent over 90% of the farmers.
The cropping component includes an estimation of farim budgets by agroecological zones and
standard types of farms4, and an assessment of overall benefits by aggregating farm budgets. accordilg to
assumptions made by the mission on the prospective adoption rates wvhich may differ dependiing on the
agroecological zone. The livestock component inclides an estimationi of herd and flock budgets by
standard type5 and an assessment of overall benefits by aggregating herd budgets, according to
assumptionis made by the mission on the prospective adoption rates by cattle and sheep breeders.
Farm-level Financial Analysis
Farmn/Herd models.  Primary project beneficiaries will be small farmers currently practicing low-input
and low-output farming systems. As cropping systems vary considerably within the sixagroecological
zones of Senegal, the analysis includes one or two standard types of farn for each of these zones. It was
assumed that the main project benefits will accrue from incremilenital productioni resulting from adoption
of the improved varieties, better use of inputs and associated cultural practices by farmiers, along with
better use of irrigation water in the case of rice-based farminig systems of the Senegal river valley. Every
three years, benefits are reduced by 30% to take into account periodic drought.
For livestock activities, the analysis includes two standard herds (large nomadic herds in the North of
Senegal; sedentary cattle in the South) and two standards flocks of sheep (large nomadic flocks in the
North; small sedentary flocks in the South). Sedentary cattle breeding could progressively be integrated
with cropping activities by developing ox-drawn cultivation and increased use of manure. Main project
benefits will accrue from better health, breeding techniquLes and feeding pattenis.
Benefits and cost per standard type of farm. Technical packages and levels of productivity for main
activities in the different situations (current, with project and without project situations) were determined
for each of the standard type of farms, in accordance with the techinologies likely to be available during
the investment phase of the project. Yield increases were projected to vary from 15 to 35 % (depending
on the region and the crop)6 and to be achieved only by the adopting farms. For a given adopting farm,
the objectives are to be achieved over a six-year period7. Productivity of standard types of livestock
4   On the basis of information and data provided and confirmed by the department of economics of ISRA (BAME).
5   On the basis of information and data provided and confirmed by the department of economics of ISRA (BAME).
6   Initial target yields provided by BAME have been reduced by 12 %. and additional benefits reduced by about 35 %, to
obtain more realistic objectives.
7   Overall, additional benefits increase over a fifteen-year period. Annual rates of increase of productivity varies from 1,6 to
2.7%.



Page 68
activities was supposed to increase by 30 % for cattle herds and 70 %8 for flocks of sheep, over a period
of ten years.
Cost of inputs. Major inputs used for rainfed cropping activities are labor, fertilizer, farn chemical and
improved seeds. Labor is the single most important componenit of crop productioll cost in Senegal and
accounts for 70 to 80%  of total input costs. Fertilizer use in Senegal is low (7.9 kg/hla oln average in
1995) and has decreased over the last few  years because of the divestiture of tile State from  the
distribution of fertilizers and slow takeover by the private sector. Inputs of increasinig importanlce should
be improved seeds and agrochemical for seed treatment.
Marketing of outputs and turnover.  Main agricultural outputs are groulidintits, staple grains (millet,
sorghum and maize), rice, cowpea and vegetables, whose respective importanice depends on the type of
farms and agroecological zone. Main output of the livestock activities are meat, cow milk and mantire
(used by cropping activities). The major constrainlts to efficient marketing of agricultural outputs are: (a)
a poor distribution  network, whiich leads to a wide disparity betweeni fariigate and retail prices, along
with wide seasonal price fluctuations; (b) inadequate low-cost storage at farm  level; and (c) lack of
processing capacity at village level. The project includes researcih and extension activities to alleviate a
part of these constraints, in particular through farmers' organizations. As a significant demand exists for
domestically produced crops, the above project activities will facilitate the market absorption of the
increased production to be generated under the project. Outputs of the standard types of farms and herds
(or flocks) have been valued on the basis of average financial farm,gate prices observed during the three
preceding years. Annual turnover of a given standard type of farm or herd results from the aggregation
of the value of each output, after taking accoulit of their respective weight (hectares of crops, heads of
cattle).
Financial Farm Budgets. Farm-level returns were estimated in three situationis (current, without and with
project) for eight types of farms devoted to cropping activities and for four types of herds or flocks.
Under the assumptions used, almost all farn  budgets show  a significant increase of returns to farn
families, a manjor part of which can be attributed to the project's interventions. For cropping activities, the
output / input (other than labor) ratios9 ((with project)> vary from 2 to 8, according the region and type of
farm. Higher ratios are reached for rainfed farming systems of the south part of Senegal, where rainfall is
sufficient to justify noticeable quantities of purchased inputs. The weakest ratio will apply in theSahelian
part of Senegal, for irrigated rice.
Project-level Economic Analysis
Approach and assumptions. Economic costs and benefits from the project were determined on the basis
of the following assumptions: (a) a project life of 20 years, commencinig with a one-year lag for the
accrual benefits; (b) an investment period of six years, includinig the total costs10 of the following
components: (i) research including the special fund, (ii) agricultural extension, and (iii) farmers'
organizations componentsl I; (c) all prices of outputs and inputs expressed in 1998 constant economic
valuesl2; (d) an opportunity cost of capital (OCIR) of 12%; and (e) an exchange rate of 580 CFAF for I
US$, equal to the market rate. Economic benefits from the project weire assessed for 8 standard
individual farms, one for each of the 8 natural regions of Senegal and for 4 standard herds (or flocks).
8   Initial target growth provided by BAME have been reduced by 12 %, and additional benefits reduced by about 40 %, to
obtain more realistic objectives.
9   Low ratios correspond to lower rusticity and higher financial risks due to high quantities of purchased inputs. It is
generally considered that this type of ratio should be at least equal to 3 to be safely adopted by small farmers.
10  Recurrent costs have been taken into account from PY 7 to PY 20, on the basis of estimates made for the assessment of
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program fiscal impact.
11  Excluding restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture.
12  There have been no significant changes in farm gate prices since 1996.



Page 69
For internationally traded commodities such as groundnuts, rice and cotton, import parity farm gate prices
were used.
Adoption rates. The number of standard farms, herds and flocks that will adopt technical packages and
benefit from the full impact of their adoption was estimated by the mission, on the basis of data provided
and suggestions made by the PNVA. However, no sufficient information was available on target yields
and adoption rates, by main activities and by regions'3. For cropping activities, adoption rates used in
this economic analysis vary from 15 to 30% depending on the agroecological zone and the type of farm.
For livestock activities, adoption rates vary from  10 to 15%. The adoption rate definitioni used in the
analysis is the number of farms or herds, over the six years of the disbursement phase, which are
supposed to adopt and benefit from the full impact of the adoption of the technical packages proposed by
the project. This adoption rate is expressed in percentage of the total number of existing farms.
Number of years to reach the objectives
For cropping activities, it was assumed that a given standard farin which adopts a technical package in
project year (PY) n benefits from the corresponding full impact on productivity in PY n +6. In addition,
for each PY during the six-year disbursement phase, one sixth of the total target farms are assumed to
adopt the considered technilcal package. Therefore the overall additional benefit reaches its maximum
value in PY I1 and remains the same up to PY 20. For livestock activities, it was assumed that a given
standard herd or flock whiich adopts a technical package in PY n reaches its <<with project) objectives in
PY n+10. In addition, for each PY during the six-year disbursemenit phase, one sixth of the total target
herds or flocks are assumed to adopt the considered technical package. Therefore the overall additional
benefit reaches its maximum value in PY 16 and remains the same up to PY 20.
Economic project costs. The project costs used in this analysis are the incremental investment and
recurrenit cost, net of taxes and subsidies, including physical contingencies, for the four components
mentioned above. The base case takes into account only incremental costs of personnel recruited because
of the project. The cost of the civil servants employed in the agricultural sector is therefore considered as
a sunk cost.
Economic Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
For the base case, based on the assumptions given above, the IRR calculated for the Agricultural
Services and Producer Organizations Program is estimated at 19 % with a NPV of 12 billion CFAF at an
OCIR of 12%.
Sensitivity analysis (switching values)
The switching value of a given variable or parameter is that value at which the project's NPV calculated
for a given OCIR (12% in this analysis) becomes zero (or the IRR equals the OCIR). Switching values
are given in terms of percentage change in the value of the variable or parameter needed to turn the
project's NPV equal to zero. The following table presents the switching values of the most important
variables, presented in order of declining sensitivity.
13  ICR of PNVA (dated June 12, 1998) confirmed that the monitoring and evaluation function has been one of the most
serious weaknesses of PNVA.



Page 70
Variable,                      Switching Value
Target Yields                        - 5 %
Target net margins                   - 9 %
Prices of outputs                   - 18 %
Adoption rates                      - 29 %
Project costs                      + 40 %
Labor costs                        + 600 %
As slhown in the table, project profitability appearsextremely sensitive to target average yields and net
margins14, and sensitive to prices of outputs and adoption rates. Target yields, net margins and
adoption rates are both variables for which little accurate informiiationi was available from the former
Agricultural Services Project, and more generally from autthorized sources in Senegal. Because of this,
the yield increases and adoption rates taken into accounlt in the economic and finanicial analysis are
extremely conservative: estimiates of potential productivity increases provided by BAME have been
reduced for more conservative estimates. In addition, the analysis envisionis a drought year every three
years.  Therefore, the probability that the target yields and adoption rates, and therefore the target
benefits, will be achieved, is fairly high.
Under the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program, the monitoring and evaluation unit
and the service of Agricultural Statistics of the Ministry of Agriculture should concentrate their efforts on
measuremiienit of the above critical parameters. In addition, better efficiency and substantial reduction of
project costs (investmenit and recurrenlt costs) should be considered.
14  Yields of rainfed crops are very sensitive to climatic conditions.



Page 71
ANNEX V
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Financial Analysis
Impact of recurrent project costs on public finances
ISSUE
The issue is whethier the recurrent costs genierated by the Agricultural Services and Producer
Organizations Program  will be satisfactorily covered uLider government budget durinig project
implemenitation, as well as in the longer term. The analytical approach consisted of comparing, in the
medium-terimi and the long-termi, the additional recurrenit costs genierated by the program with estimates of
primary sector public expenditures dedicated to salaries. operations, and maintenianice.
METHOD
The total program costs15 over six-year (two first phases) amounts to FCFA 40 billion, including
provisions for unlexpected continigenicies. The finanlcial participation of the users of agricultural research
and extension services in the costs of the program were takeii into accouLit. Given the uncertainty
regarding the amoLiuit and the pacing of these contributionis, two scenarios were elaborated to cover the
range of possibilities. The recurrenit costs charged to the governmenit budget thus consist of the balance
of the recurremi costs not covered by agricultural services users.
The estimates conceriniiig the large categories of the governmenit budget (revenues and expenditures) are
based oni the projections included in the most recent document framework of the political economy of
Senegal Policy Framework Paper (PFP), elaborated witih the International Monetary Fund and dated
February 1998. Following the example of the PFP, the projections and estimates of this report were
carried out for a period of 20 years (1998-2017). Admittedly, the resulting estimates demonstrate an
acceptable level of precision only for the first ten years. This period of ten years corresponds to the
cumulative durationi of the three phases of the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations
Program.
The estimates conceriiing the amount of the public expenditures in the primary sector were made by
applying to the projections of total public expenditures the ratios of sectoral categories, available in the
last review of public expenditures (1991). The break-down of the agricultural public expenditures was
done on the basis of the actual make-up of the previous budgets of the primary sector (Programme
Triennal d 'Investissement Public (PTIP) and operational budgets of the relevant ministries).
The results of the calculations should be used with caution, due to uncertainty about numerous data sets,
in particular the macro-economic developments and intersectoral arbitration that will take place in the
future. The estimates presented should thus be considered as rough estimates.
15  From the version dated July 3, 1998 on COSTAB.



Page 72
ESTIMATES OF THE CONTRIBUTION OF USERS AND COSTS TO BE SUPPORTED BY
THE STATE
(Note. the corresponding table of calcuilations are in1 project.files.)
Total recurrent costs of the project amount to FCFA 19 billion16 for the six-year period of the project,
roughly averaging 3 billion per year. They gradually increase from year I to year 6, reachinig 3.6 billion
in year 6. These costs are additional. with regard to the actual situationi, takien as reference. Salary costs
of existing institutions are excluded (they are part of the existing situation). They do include, however,
the salary costs of ANCAR. whichi wiII be created in the course of the project. This is a conservative
estimates of the costs: with the creation of ANCAR, SODEVA  will be liquidated and the extension
functions of other SRDRs (SODEFITEX, SAED) as well as those of the MA  will be devolved to
ANCAR.   Hence, agricultural public  budget will no  longer have to  cover the  recurrent costs
correspondinag to SODEVA and the extension funlctioni of the other instituitionis and the costs should be
less thani the ones takien into accounlt
Two scenarios for the progressive increase of the finanicial contribution by the users of agriculture
research and extension weere considered. The appraisal mission estimated the "optimistic" scenario, as
described in the PAD. A pessimistic scenario has been designed to take into account the risks for the
delay of this contribution. The rate of contributioll is the percentage of total costs of a given service, that
will effectively be paid by the users. The hypotileses are as follows:17
Components          Average rate of contributioni         Average rate of contribution            Remarks
(percentage)                          (percentage)
________       end of phase 2 (year 2002)18           end of phase 3 (year 2006)        _-
optimistic        pessimistic         optimistic         pessimistic
scenario           scenario           scenario           scenario
Agricultural                                                                                   financing
and a ,ro-              20 %                5 %               60 %               20 %          through the
processing                                                                                     FNRA
research
Agricultural            50 %               20 %                100               50 %          POs, with
extensioni                                                                                    financing from
levies 19
The results of these two scenarios of the recurrent costs to be borne by the Government20 are presented in
the tables of Annex 1. To sum up:
* In phase I, the government supports all of the recurrent costs, FCFA 2.8 billion per year
16  Includes physical contingencies; excludes financial variability (calculations in constant currency)
17  Only the research and extension components are concemed. The cost of restructuring MVA and of support to producer
organizations (institutional strengthening) will be entirely funded by the Govemment.
18  The financial contribution by users will not start before the beginning of phase 2.
19   The producers'contribution will be funded by a levy on certain agricultural and agro-processing sectors. The hypothesis,
yet to be confirmed, is that the extrabudgetary levies thus put into effect will not decrease the other taxes collected by the
Government.
20   Before deducting the savings that will be achieved via the restructuring of extension services of the development agencies
(SRDR). The study of the costs of extension of the SRDR, performed by the staff of the former PNVA, is not available.



Page 73
*   At the end of phase 2, the contribution of users (of research and extension combined) to the
recurrent costs will range from  FCFA  300 to 800 million per year.  The expenditure
remaining the responsibility of the Governmenit will be in the range of FCFA  2.5 to 3.4
billion. For the rest of the calculations (Aninex 4), the sum of FCFA 3.0 billion per year21 for
the Government's share of expenditures was used. This amouLit represents an intermediate
situation between the optimistic and the pessimistic scenarios with regard to users'
contribution.
*   At the end of phase 3, the contribution of users (of research and extension combined) to
recurrenit costs will be in the range of FCFA  1.2 to 2.1 billion per year. The sum remaining
charged to the Governmenit will be in the range of FCFA  1.4 to 3.5 billion per year. For the
rest of the calculationis (Anilex 4), an amount of FCFA 2.5 billion per year was considered
the responsibility of the Government, corresponding with an intermediate situationi between
the two scenarios.
ESTIMATES OF THE FINANCING CAPACITY OF THE STATE
The Current Budgetar  Structure
Note: the correSpon0ding tables arce presenitedi in7 piroject files.
The Budget of the Governimienit consists of an investilmenit budget and an operational budget, allocated by
ministry.  The investimienit budget, called the Consolidated Investment Budget (BCI) is the annual
executive version of the Tri-annual Public Investimienit (PTIP).22  The PTIP is structured in four main
sectors, whicih are divided into subsectors of activities. Most operational and maintenance expenditures
liiked with the projects are incLiuded in the PTIP and the BCI.23
The currenit PTIP,24 whicih covers the period 1998-2000, attains a total of FCFA 927 billion25 for the
three years, averaging FCFA 309 billion per year. The tri-annuial time frame of the PTIP dedicated only
to the primary sector comes to FCFA 295 billion, or 32 percent to the PTIP total. The corresponding
aninual average is thus rougIlly FCFA  100 billion per year. The primary sector consists of seven sub-
sectors of activities,26 includinig studies and research, and institutional support.27 On average, more than
80 percent of the PTIP is finaniced using external resources, either grants or concessional loans.
21   Despite a contribution by users. the Government's share of expenses grows during phase I due to the increase in total
recurrent costs from year I to year 6.
22  Including external financing and the Senegalese counterpart funds.
23   A reorganization of budgetary and process in planned to allow for a better transparency in the allocation of resources,
notably in assuring a better linkage between the allocation of human resources and financial means. A pilot project should
be undertaken in the areas of education and health, in the course of the review of public expenditures tanking place in these
sectors.
24   Dated November 1997.
25   The PTIP normally is composed of identified programs and projects, for which financing is acquired, in the process of
negotiation. or to be researched.
26  The Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program is not listed in the PTIP dated November 1997.
27  The Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program should be included for the most part under these two
headings.



Page 74
As for the operational budget, the ministries to be taken into account are the Ministry of Agriculture and
the Ministry of Livestock, as well as that of Scientific Research (referring to the part concerning the
primary sector). The budgets mainly cover the financing of the salary costs of government personnel
(civil service and contractual workers). These personnel work directly in the ministerial departments, or
are located in agencies of development or research institutes.28
In actuality, the annual flow of public expenditures can be estimated as follows:
Relevant budgets                Annual Total              Government           Remarks
Amount                  Financing
(billions of FCFA)       (billions of FCFA)
Consolidated  Investment                                                       of which  counterpart
Budget (BCI) 1998                     89                    17(19%)           funds  of FCFA   3.5
billion (4%)
MA   operational  budget               4                                      Salaries transferred to
(incl. livestock)                      3                                       SRDRs and ISRA
Researcih (ITA) opera-                0.2
tional budget
Total public expeilditures           96.2
Rougilly, it can be estimated that the flow of public expenditures for the primary sector is FCFA  100
billion per vear.
A-ainst this total, the recurrenit costs consist of the sum  of the operational budgets (MA and the ITA
budget of the Ministry of Scienitific Research), that is to say approximately FCFA 7 billion and the sum of
tihe credits of BCI necessary for operations, estimated to be FCFA 27 billion.29 Total recurrent cost is
therefore approximately FCFA 30 billion per year, of which 20 billion is financed by external resources.
Medliuim-terni Projections
Note: the calculation tables are in project files.
In the medium-term, on the basis of the base scenario of the PFP dated 1998, the public expenditures of
the primary sector will grow at an anitial rate of roughly 4 percent, in constant currency. The catch-up
with regard to the recent past, when the primary sector was disadvantaged in budgetary negotiations, will
be continued for several years, with the highest rate of growth of public expenditures for a given sector,
approachiing 10 percent per year.
CONCLUSION
The following table permits, in the medium- and long-term, the comparison between on the one hand the
recurrent costs that the Government will be responsible for and, on the other hand, the recurrent costs
generated by the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program (constant 1998 currency).
28  Thus, more than 40 percent of the operational budget of MA is allotted to transfers to a half-dozen autonomous
institutions.
29  Around 30 % of the total of BCI of the primary sector. The presentation of the PTIP and the BCI, in their actual state,
does not allow distinguishing investments from recurrent costs.



Page 75
Year             Sustainable annual          Recurrent costs of Agricultural        Ratio
operational expenses     Services and Producer Organizations       (a)/(b)
(primary sector) (a)30    Program funded by the Government
Billions FCFA/year          (b)31 (intermediate scenario)
2000                     36                               3.0                        8%
2005                     41                               2.5                        6%
2010                     49                               2.5                        5%
2020                     65                               1.5                        2%
On the basis of the above analysis and of the data of the above table, one can draw the following
conclusions:
*  The recurr-enit costs generated by the four componlenits of Agricultural Services and Producer
Organizations Program  will remain, for the duration of the Agricultural Services and
Producer Organizationis Program  and during the following years, less than 10 percent of
public expendituires for the primary sector.
*  The share of public agricultural expenditures going to Agricultural Services and Producer
Organizationis Program decreases over time as a result of the progressive sharing of costs by
the users of ag,riculture research and extension. Under prudent hypotheses concerning the
pacinig of the growth of this contributioll (an intermediate scenario between the most
optimistic and the most pessimistic situation), the share of public agricultural expenditures
going to Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program declines from 8% in year
2000 to 2% in year 2020. Even if the nsers could not increase their contribution to the level
expected by year 2020, the recurrent costs for the government will remain under 10% of
agricultural public expenditures.
*  This is a very conservative estimate, since the analysis does not take into account the savings
that should result from the liquidation of SODEVA and the reduction in function duplication
between ANCAR, the MA and the other SRDRs (SODEFITEX, SODAGRI and SAED) as
far as extension is concerned. Thus it is likely that recurrent costs, as a share of agricultural
public expenditures, will be less than the above estimates.
*  Even if the recurrent costs represented up to 10 % of public agricultural expenditures, the
importance of agricultural research, extension, support to producer organizations and
Ministry policy and regulatory functions could therefore well justify that 10% of public
financing for the primary sector be so dedicated;
To conclude: the recurrent costs generated by the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
constitute an acceptable burden on public finances and well within the GOS financial means.
30  According to estimates. on the basis of the base scenario of the PFP 1998; comprising the total amount of salary costs,
operations and maintenance, for the whole of the primary sector.
31  After deduction of the financial contribution of the users of the services.



Page 76
ANNEX VI
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement.  In general. Senegal's procurement laws and regulationi do not conflict with IDA
Guidelines. No special exemptions. permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit docuLimenlts for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since the Senegal's procurement practices allow  IDA
procedures to take precedence over any provisions in local regulationis. All goods and services financed
under the IDA Credit will be procured in accordance withi IDA guidelines. Contracts to supply goods and
equipmiienit, vehicles, and civil engineering services for the Program will be put up for bid and awarded by
tihe implementinig( agenicy or. if above their approval limits, by the authorized bodies in the Government
system  (tile respective Ministries and thie National Procurement Office).  By the time of credit
effectiveness, each agency will hlave subimiitted a procuremenit plan to the Association.
Goods finaniced b' IDA will include vehicles. furinitire, office equipmenit, laboratory equipment,
agricultural equipimienit, scientific equipmenit, audio-visual equipment, materials, spare parts and training
materials, and xvill be packaged in lots. All lots valued over US$200,000 will be procured uisig
interinationial competitive bidding in accordance withi IDA's GuidSelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans ci;id IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 and Septemnber 1997).
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA may be utilized for contracts in the
range of US$50,000 to US$200,000 provided that their total value over the course of the Program does
not exceed US$0.55 millionis. In the case of specialized scientific and agricultural equipment, estinated
to cost US$0.83. where only a limited number of suppliers exist that can meet product specifications,
proculremen1t will follow limited interinational bidding procedures; prior agreement from IDA will be
needed on the justificationi for limited interinationial bidding and on the list of potential suppliers. The
purclhase of minlor spare parts and replacement of small quantities of vehicles and equipment, estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 per package, with an aggregate limit of US$0.20 million will be procured using
local and interinationial slhoppling procedures (minimum  three quotations), or IAPSO (Inter-Agency
Procuremenit Service of the United Nations Development Program).
Contracts for civil works.  All bidding documents and contracts in this category, except small
reliabilitation works valued at less than US$50,000, will be procured through NCB and reviewed by IDA.
Rehabilitation and construction works will be grouped into regional lots to enable local small and medium
enterprises to participate in the bidding, although overseas firms and firms elsewhere in the country may
also bid. Documentation acceptable to IDA will be required.
Consultant services contracts. They will be awarded in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the
selection and employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September
1997). Selection of consultants will be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed firms
in which the selection will be based on Quality-Based and Cost Selection (QBCS), except for the
following: (i) audits of a standard nature estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract which will
use the Least Cost Selection, (ii)studies, estimated to cost less than US$100,000, which may be procured
under Consultants' Qualifications Selection, and (iii)advisory services, lectures and small studies which
could be delivered by individual consultants and which will be selected through comparison of
qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. The short list of
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be comprised



Page 77
entirely of consulting firms from Senegal, provided those firms with experience required are in a
sufficient number (at least three). However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be
excluded from consideration.
All IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold value of US$50,000 and US$200,000
respectively, will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. For consultinig services, the Bank will
review the selectioni process proposed by the Borrower. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for
the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimiated to cost less than US$100,000 and
US$50,000 equivalent respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the
Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a
critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the
prior review threshold. For consultant contracts estimated above US$200,000, opening the financial
envelopes will not take place before receiving the Bank's no-objectioni to the technical evaluation. For
contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 and more than US$100,000 the borrower will notify
IDA of the results of the technical evaluationi prior to opening the financial proposals. The above prior
review threshold, will result in reviewing about 81% of total contract amount.  Documents related to
procurement below the prior review threslholds will be maintainied by the borrowers for ex-post review by
auditors and by IDA supervision missionis.
Contracts for POs' sub-projects tinder tihe Producer Organizations Component (Services Fund). All
bidding documelits and contracts for this category "Access to services fund" will follow procurement and
disbursemenit procedures as presented in the "Guidelinies for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement
for Community-Based Investimienits" (February 1998).
Procurement Readiness, Schedule and Supervisioni Arrangemenlts. Advance procurement for civil-works
and goods will be made in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. With the current program
processing schedule, no retroactive financing will be necessary for the program. A detailed procurement
plan for works, goods, and services to be procured under the program is provided in Annex VI. During
implementationi, all bidding documenits, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts transmitted to IDA for
review will contain an updated copy of the procurement plan.
Durinig negotiations, based on an assessment of current capacities, the Government will agree on
a program to strengthen various entities handling procurement activities. Basically, each entity will
receive support and guidance from a procurement specialist hired by the Ministry of Economics, Finance
and Planning for the project and working out of the Direction de la Dette et des Investissements. In
addition to the provision of support when needed the procurement specialist will have to clear all
procurement decisions and documents sent to the Bank. Each entity will be reinforced through: (i) the
recruitment of qualified staff and ad hoc short-term consultant services, as required; and (ii) in-service
procurement training of staff. To ensure a timely program implementation process, the procurement
specialist will take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following
target time periods:
Procurement Procedure                     Maximum Number of Weeks
Preparation of Bidding Documents            4 (12 for large contracts)
Preparation of Bid by Bidders               4 (12 for ICB)
Bid Evaluation                              2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of Contracts                      2
Payments                                    3



Page 78
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
International   National                            Not
Competitive  Competitive                          Bank
Bidding          Bidding        Others cO  Financed    Total
A. Civil Works
Construction - wells                                     -            0.09                           -        0.09
(0.04)                                  (0.04)
Rehabilitation - Buildings,                         2.18              3.13                           -        5.31
and Facilities                                   (0.92)           (1.32)                                   (2.24)
B. Goods
Vehicles                                             7.48             0.23                           -        7.71
(3.16)          (0.10)                                   (3.26)
Laboratory Equipment /d                                  -                -          0.74            -        0.74
(0.36)                   (0.36)
Agricultural Equipment /d                                -                -          0.29            -        0.29
(0.14)                   (0.14)
Other Equipment and materials /a                     3.02             0.34                       0.03         3.39
(1.90)          (0.20)                         (-)       (2.10)
C. Specialist Services
Consultant Services and Studies                          -                -          7.10            -        7.10
(5.87)                   (5.87)
Training and Workshops /b                                -                -          7.73            -        7.73
(6.04)                   (6.04)
D. Operating Costs                                         -                -          8.82        5.91        14.73
(7.35)         (-)       (7.35)
Total                                                  12.68             3.79         24.68        5.94         47.09
(5.98)          (1.66)        (19.76)          (-)     (27.40)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by International Development Association
\a Includes computers and office equipment, agricultural, laboratory, communication, training, generators, radios, machines and tools for
workshops. and fumiture.
\b Including travel and per diem.
\c Limited intemational bidding. local shopping, direct contracting and selection and employment of consultants
\d Limited international bidding.



Page 79
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review32
Expenditure             Contract Value             Procurement                      Contracts Subject to
Category                (Threshold)                 Method             Prior Review / Estimated Total Value Subject
to Prior Review
US $ thousands                                                US $ millions
1. Works                                           _
>200            ICB                       Prior review US$2.2 million.
<200            NCB                       Post review
<50             Other (Quotations)        Post review:
2. Goods
>200            ICB                       Prior review/ All documentation. Aggregate:
USS10.5
_ _ _ _ _ _    LIB                       US$1.03
<200            NCB                       Post Review
<50             Other (Quotations)        Post Review
or IAPSO
3. Ser vices
3.1 Consulting Firmis or          >100 a/           QCBS + Short List         Prior Review. Technical evaluation subject to
training instituitions                         LCS for Audits            IDA non objection before opening financial
proposals.
Short Lists may be comprised entirely of firms
from Senegal if there is at least three reliable
firms.
Aggregate: US$6.3 M
<100            QCBS + Short list         Post review (except for TORS)
Consultant's
_________________________   Qualifications  for studies
3.2 Individual consUltalnts
>50             Comparison of at least 3    Prior Review
Cvs                       Aggregate: US$0.3 M
<50             Comparison of at least 3    Post Review
Cvs                       (except for TORs)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$20.33 (or 77% of total contract amount).
a / Issue an advertisement in Business Development to get expression of interests for contracts above US$200,000.
Prior Review is required for:.
. All TORs for consultants, studies and trainings
. Annual training and procurement plans
. Sole source selection of individual consultants and firms
. Amendments to contracts with consulting firns or individuals that bring the total value of the contract to US$
100,000 equivalent or above for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals.
32  Thresholds generally differ by country and project.- Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 80
The project will assist eligible producers' organizations (PO) in the form of grants payable in
tranches as described in the manual of procedures, and unlder contractual arrangemiienits between POs and
ASPRODEB. Proposals prepared by POs with the assistance of NGOs, as needed, will be reviewed and
approved by the local or regional committee (CLCOP or CRCOP). An NGO with extensive experience
in similar operations will be responsible to provide support to the CLCOP and CRCOP and oversee with
them the process of selection, monitoring and evaluationi of the POs sub-projects funded by the Rural
Service Fund. In-additioni, financial and technical audits will be carried out by an indepenidenit firn --
selected by ASPRODEB in accordance with the procedures applicable for consultants -- annually to
assess that completed sub-projects have been implemelnted according to sub-project proposal and
contract. The convention between POs and ASPRODEB will stipulate that dependinig on the sub-project
activity: (i) POs will receive an advance of the granit for starting activities: and (ii) the remaining amount
will be paid in tranclhes against the provision of docuLmlentationl justifying imiplemenitationi of activities,
certified by the CLCOP or the CRCOP with support of the above mentionied NGO.
Disbursenments
Disbursemiienit of IDA Credit. IDA and cofinaniciers will finanice 100% of foreign expendituLres and 80%
of local expenditures for civil works and vehicles and equipmiienit; and 80% of operating costs. IDA and
cofinianlciers will not finance operating costs directly for the two research institutes (ISRA and ITA).
Operating costs for research will be funded through research project contracts reviewed, approved and
funded by NARF. The operating costs of the Ministries will be financed entirely by the Government.
Estimated at 8.0 millionis dollars, foregone taxes will be anothler form of Government contribution to the
program.
To facilitate program inplemenltationi, the Government will open a Special Account in CFAF in a local
commercial banki acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will cover four months of eligible
expenditLres. Upon effectiveness, an amount representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation will be
deposited in the special accoullt All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted
monthly. All replenishmenit applications will be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of less than
US$50,000 equivalent for goods and works; (b) US$100,000 for consultants; and (c) training, studies and
operating costs which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).  The
documents relating to points (a) to (c) will be retained at the program implementation units and reviewed
by the IDA supervision missions.
Ninety day advance accounts will be allowed under the Program for ANCAR Regional Directorates as
long as the Agency will be able to:
(a)    maintain proper books of accounts for the project funds;
(b)    allocate funds to the various regional directorates based on budgets and cash flow plans approved
by ANCAR Board.
(c)    monitor the use of decentralized funds by the various regional directorates and obtain acceptable
accounting from each of these locations on a regular basis;
(d)    prepare and submit regular replenishment requests to the Bank (and other donors) together with
appropriate supporting documents to evidence receipt and utilization of IDA and govemment
funds.
"The Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in Bank group projects, the Loan
Administrative Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative assists projects to put in place sound financial
management, procurement and output monitoring systems. Where appropriate, if these systems are in



Page 81
place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR)
rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditLre.
Since appraisal for the Project was before July 1, 1998, the date set by the Board for the implementation
of LACI, the process does not apply to the Program. The LACI concepts have, however, been taken into
consideration in project preparation. An assessment has been made that the LACI procedures will not be
appropriate for the Program initially. There is a need to ensure that the systems put in place are operating
effectively. The monitoring and evaluation process will include output monitoring reports which are
consistent with the LACI requirements. The financial, procurement and output monitorinig systems will
be reviewed as part of the mid-term review at the end of the second year to assess whether it will be
appropriate to move to Project Management Reports disbursenments at that time.
Accounting, Audliting and Reporting
Each implementing agency will have a finanicial and accountinig management system  in place and
certified by an independenit auditor before credit effectiveness, except for ISRA, for which this is a
disbursemenit condition.
ISRA is putting in place an improved financial managemenit and accounting system and will have to be
restructured finanicially before receiving IDA funding (condition of component disbursement).
ITA will also recruit a financial maniagement and accounting firm which will be responsible for assuring
the quality of ITA accouLnts and finanicial management for the first two years, helping the Institute recruit
staff (if necessary) and training accountinig staff. This will be another condition of effectiveness.
ANCAR will put in place, with the support of an international accounting firm, a financial management
system, includinig cost accounting (by activities and regions, in order to implement decentralization and to
keep track of contracts with producer organizations and rural communities). The accounting firm will be
responsible for producing an opening balance, recruiting financial management staff and accountants, and
traininlg them in the system. It will be expected to ensure the quality of the financial statements of
ANCAR for the first two years of operation and will be released of this responsibility once these
statements have been audited and the recommendations of the independent auditor have been
implemented. The Program will become effective once the accounting firm is in place and the manual of
accounting procedures has been adopted by the ANCAR Board.
All agencies will maintain their accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards (lASs)
to reflect their operations and financial positions and will have the accounts (including Special Accounts
and Statements of expenditures) audited, in accordance with the IASs, by a firm of independent external
auditors acceptable to IDA. Recruitment of such a firm on a one year renewable contract for each
implementing agency is a condition of effectiveness. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
audited accounts and the auditors' report, including the Management Letter, and a statement as to whether
or not Bank funds had been used for their intended purpose, will be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of the fiscal year of each agency.
By September 30 of each year, starting in 1999, each implementing agency will submit to their Board and
their respective ministries, with a copy to IDA, their annual work programs and budgets. The report
format will adequately portray activities and unit costs, and provide the basis for proper management for
each implementing agency and operation of a sound accounting system. The budgetary proposals will
include quarterly cash flow statements.
Each participating agency will submit semi-annual reports and management accounts to their Board
and/or their supervising ministry, showing budgeted and actual expenditures, statements of progress



Page 82
achieved and the objectives for the forthcoming quarter. Semi-annual reports will contain summaries of
to-date expenditures and use of funds by source, plus a forecast of withdrawal of IDA loan proceeds by
quarter for the forthcoming year.
During negotiations, based on an assessment of capabilities, the Government agreed to assign within the
Direction de la Dette et des Irvestissements of the Ministry of Economics, Finances and Planning a
disbursement specialist for the management of the Program, with adequate resources to function. This
staff will: (i) set up a data base for the budget of the seven components and monitor the expenses against
the budget; (ii) monitor and reconcile the special accounts: (iii) check the statement of expenditures for
conformity of presentation and eligibility of expenditures: (iv) help the implementation agencies witil the
preparation of withdrawal requests; (v) monitor the timely submission of the audit reports.
The program will assist researchers to carry ouit research activities througih contractual arrangements
between NARF and the research institutions where the researchers operate. Research projects' eligibility,
review and selection procedures will be described in the Research subproject management manual of
NARF. Projects will be funided in the form of granits payable in tranclies. NARF will carry out financial
and technical audits, with the help of specialized consultanits as required in the Research subproject
management manual.



Page 83
Table C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount of the Credit    Percent of Expenditure to be
Allocated (in US$)            financed
1. Civil Works                                               100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures
ISRA                             670.000
ITA                               190,000
ANCAR                             160,000
Ministry of Agriculture          840,000
Ministry of Livestock             160,000
2. Vehicles and Equipment                                  100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
NARF                               40,000
ISRA                            1.120.000
ITA                              300,000
ANCAR                           1.790.000
ASPRODEB                          90.000
DDI                               20,000
Ministry of Agricuiltuire       1.150,000
Ministry of Livestock            650,000
3. Constiltanit's Services and Training                                100%
NARF                             200,000
ISRA                            1,070,000
ITA                              310,000
ANCAR                           1,120,000
ASPRODEB                        1,800,000
DDI                               50,000
Ministry of Agriculttire        1,000,000
Ministry of Livestock           1,700,000
4. Operating Costs
NARF                             410,000           95% until December 31, 2001 and
80% thereafter
ANCAR                          3,080,000                       80%
DDI                              400,000                       80%
5. Research Fund (NARF)                 2,650,000                      100%
6. NRM pilot program (ANCAR)             630,000                       100%
7. Rural Services Fund (ASPRODEB)       1,300,000           100% of eligible amount amount
paid to the beneficiaries as a grant
8.   Refunding of Project Preparation   2,000,000
Advance
9. Unallocated                          2,500,000                      100%
Total  27,400,000



Page 84
ANNEX VI]
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
40,000 for 6 years     70,000 for 10 years
B. Project Schedule                                Planied                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)        January 15, 1996        January 15, 1996
Pre-appraisal missions                     July 01, 1996           July 1, 1996
Appraisal mission departure                January 15, 1997        July 1, 1998
Negotiations                                April 1997             March 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness              January 1998            September 1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture, ITA, ISRA, CNCR
Preparation assistance: PPF, French Trust Fund, IFAD, PHRD grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Marie-Helene Collion                       Task team leader and research specialist
Alain Derevier                              Research specialist
Henri Rouille D'Orfeuil                    Research specialist
Christian Fauliau                           Rural institutions specialist
Bertrand de Chazal                          Financial management specialist
Pierre Rondot                              Consultant, producer organizations specialist
Franz Schorosch                             Lead specialist
Tjaart Van Ven Schillhorn                   Livestock specialist
Fran,ois Le Gall                            Livestock specialist
Leopold Sarr                               -Agricultural services specialist
Kishor Uprety                               Counsel
Bertrand Abeille                            Procurement specialist
Amadou Tidiane Toure                        Procurement specialist
Moustapha Ndiaye                            Financial management specialist
Wolfgang Chadab                             Disbursement officer
Rogerio Pinto                              Institutional development specialist
Willem Zijp                                 Extension services specialist
Consultants
Hannibal Muhtar                             Consultant, research infrastructure specialist
Maurice Barbezant                           Consultant, extension services
Jean-Pierre Okalla                          Financial management specialist (consultant)
Alexander Kawalec                           Rural institutions specialist (c:onsultant, IFAD)



Page 85
ANNEX VIII
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Documents in the Project File*
Appraisal Mission
Cornit6 de Pilotage du PSAOP. 1998. Programine Services Agrico/es el Organisalions des Producteurs
(PSAOP) . Cadres cle Concertation. Populations Locales - Chercheurs - Agenits c/e Conseil Agricole
el Rural. Note de synth&se eI, Ici reunion chu Comie c/le Pilotage.
ISRA. 1998. Programme Services Agricoles et Organisations c/es Prodcucteurs (PSAOP)F: Composcnte
Recherche/lISRA. Document c/c bise pour  L'v;valuation etela mise en oeuv!re ctu PiSAOP.
Ministere de I'Agriculture: Direction de I'Elevage. Programme Services Agricoles et Organisations des
Producteurs (PSAOP) : Composante Pilote Gestion c/es Parcours.
Ministere de I'Agriculture; ISRA. 1998. Comnpte rencht ge;ne;ral c/e I'citelier sur le fic/ns c/e recherche
agricole et agro-alimnentaire.
Ministere de I'Agriculture; ISRA.  1998. .  Progrcmmnme Services Agricoles et Organisations c/es
Producteurs (PSAOP)F: Coniposante "Appui cux Orgcnisactions c/c Prodlucieurs Ruraux "
Ministere de l'Agriculture: ITA. 1998. Programnme Services Agricoles et Orgcanisations cles Pro/uhcteuirs
(PSAOP).  Composante Recherche : ISRA-ITA  et Fonc/s Nationcil dc/ Recherche.  Doclmaent
d 'evaluation.
Ministere de I'Agriculture. 1998. Programme Services Agricoles et Organisations c/es Producteurs
(PSAOP) : Composante Restructuration dcu Ministere de 1'4griculture.  Document c/e Bcase pour
l 'evaluation et la mise en oeuvre diu PSAOP.
Programme Services Agricoles e Organisations des Producteurs (PSAOP): Volet Elevage.
Rapport pour la Mission d'Evaluation. 1998. Programnme Services Agricoles et Organiscltions cles
Producteurs (PSAOP): Cadre de Concertation pour la Recherche - Developpen7ent.



Page 86
Creation du Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCA]R)
ANCAR. 1998. Organisation et Realisation de la S6llection des Agents de I A'NCAR : Principairr mocdes
de fonctionnement en matiere cde gestion des ressources hunjaines. Rapport t/e synthese.  BCST
Consultants.
ANCAR. 1998. Organisation et Realisation de lIa Selection dJes Agents clc/ 'ANCAR . Principaux mnodes
de fonctionnement en matiere c/c gestion dces re.ssouirces humacines. Rapport c .synthese. BCST
Consultants.
ANCAR.   1997.   Formalisations et Constitution Juridiquze. Organisation  Structurelle et
Fonctionnelle. Statuts et Accord d'Etablissement. Groupe Progesis; Bureau d'Etudes
ANCAR. 1997. Document de Projet dli VZole ANC.AR. Annexe VI. Projet tie reglenent inte;rieur
ANCAR. 1997. Formalisation et Constitution Juridique. Organisation Structuzrellc et Fonctionnelile.
Statuts et Accord d 'Etablissemnent. Groupe Progesis.
ANCAR. 1997. Organisation et Realisation de la Selection des Agents tic/ IANCAR Communicationz au
ComWit Technique et azu Representants des 0. P. BCST Consultanits.
ANCAR.  1997. Organisation et Realisation de la Selection d/es Agents de l'ANCAR Proposition
Technique & Financiere. BCST Consultants
Association Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (ANDA). 1996. Mtission dAppui Aupres il/
PNVA. Theme: Evolution du Dispositif Concernant la Vulgarisation
BCST, Consultants. 1996. Preselection du Personnel de l 'ANCAR: Pre;sentat,ion Methodologique
Cabinet International d'Etude et de Conseil pour le Developpement (CIECC)D). 1997. Propositions
Techniques et Evaluation Financiere pour l'Elaboration des Instruments Juridiques c/- l'Agence
Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCAR) : Statuts. Reglement Interieur. Manulel c/e
Procedures.
Camara, Amadou Moustapha, Adama Faye, Antoinette M. L. Cabral Sagna, 1)esire Yande Sarr et Marie
Kane Seck. Etude de /'Articulation entre l'offre et la demande en conseil agricole et rural
Synthese (document provisoire). Ministere de I'Agriculture. Mission pour la creation de I'ANCAR.
Camara, Amadou Moustapha, Adama Faye, Antoinette M. L. Cabral Sagna, [)esire Yande Sarr et Marie
Kane Seck. 1997. Demande et offre en Conseil Rural et Agricole : Situations Regionales.
Ministere de l'Agriculture. Mission pour la creation de I'ANCAR.
Centre Interprofessionnel pour la Formation aux metiers de I'Agriculture (CIFA). 1995. Le contexte
economique de la privatisation et de la liberalisation des filieres riz et tomate: Programme
d'ouverture.  Formation des responsables d'organisations paysannes. Seminaire No. 1. Compte
rendu



Page 87
Diouf, Aly. 1997. Note d'Orientation pour Ia Creation du Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCAR).
Diouf, Aly. 1997. Etude Contplementaire pour la creation de I 'Agence Nationale di Conseil Agricole et
Rural (ANCAR). Senegal Prestations "SEN-PREST'
Document de Projet du Volet ANCAR: Annexe No. . Projet (le Statuts
Ministere de l'Agriculture; PNVA. 1995. Nouveiiui Catlre Instilutionnel et Ope;rationnel de la
Vulgarisation Agricole
Ministere de I'Agriculture; PNVA.   1995. Proposition dthn Nouveau Cadre Institfutionnel et
Orgarrisationnel pour le Conseil Agricole et Ruiral
Ministere de I'Agriculture: PNVA. 1996. Etal ei'Execultion cii Plan d'Actions pour les Besoins te
Formulation du Volet Conseil Agricole el Rural ihu PSAOP
Ministere de l'Agriculture. 1997. C'onseil Interminiivtc;riel suir le Conseil Agricole et Rural
Mission ANCAR - CIRAD. 1998. Proposition pour la nisc en place de l 'Agence Nationale de Conseil
Agricole et Rural: Rapport provisoire.
Mission pour Ia creation de l'ANCAR. 1997. Etude de I 'Offre de Formation aui Se;ne;gal et 4 I 'Extdrieur
pour le Personnel de l 'ANCAR.
Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (PNVA).  ANCAR.  1996.   Mission d'Appui
Organisationnel pour la Definition de la Nouvelle Structure AAgricole . Rapport. BCST Consultanits.
Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (PNVA).  Proposition   d'Organisation   el de
Fonctionnement du Conseil Agricole et Rurale. Version remnaniie
Projet de D&cret Fixant les Regles d'Organisation et de Fonclionnentent de l 'Agence Nationale pour le
Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCAR).



Page 88
Documents in the Project File
Institut de Technologie Alimentaire (ITA)
Projet de Decret Fixant les Regles d'Organisation et cl/ Fonctionnenent cde l'Institrut cde Technologie
Alimentaire (ITA).
Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique et de la Techliologie.  ITA.  Projet de Dcrel .c  Portant
Reglement d 'Etablissement de l lTA.
Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique et de la Techiiologie.  ITA.   1998. Plan, Strategique c/c
Deve1oppenient 1998 - 2003.



Page 89
Documents in the Project File
Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA)
ACG AFRIQUE and CECOMAR. 1998. Expertise c/lu Ncwvire c/e ReCherche 'Louis Sauger". Ministere
de l'Agriculture.
ADIRA. 1998. Etuce le I 'Unitic; clc Procduiction cle SemLences t/ 1 'ItS,AS  RcRpport iLMfinitif:
Cornite Regional Fleuve. 1996. Plan7 Strategique c/e ICi ReclherchLe .Z o07e Fleuve &in7gal. Ministere de
l'Agriculture: ISRA. Direction Scientifique.
Comite Regional du Sud Bassin Arachidier. Plcu7 Sirctegiqute c/c la Recherche Algricole Zone Sucl Bassin
Arachidier. Ministere de l'AgricultLire: ISRA.
Comit6 Regional de Planification Strat6gique Basse et Moyenine Casamanice. 1996. Un it c Rfgionalce (le
Recherches Bcisse et Moyenne Cascmance. Centre de Rechercihe Agricole de Djibelor.
Gueye, A. 1996.  Projet c/ cdcret poricitnt staiitt rgleginentciire particulier c/hl personnel cle /'Inistil ut
,Sencegalcais cle Recherches Agricoles..
Gueye, Amadou.  1996.  Projet c/e cMckret polrtant sticitt reglenientciire palrticuiier cdu personniiel cIC
/ 'ISRA.
Badiane, A., M. Diop, F. Gueye, M. Gueye, M. Kebe, J-L Manga, F. Ndao Ba, S. Niang. 1996. P/ca7 cle
Gestion et c/e Developpement des Infrastructures, Gros Equipenent.s et Lc,borctoires. Groupe de
Prospective et de Synthese.
Danthu, P., 0. Diagne, 1. Diallo, M. Diatta, M. Dione, A. Gaye, B. Ndour, P. N. Sall, et A. Tamba. 1996.
Groupe Prospective et Synthese.  Commission ThNcmatique . Productions Forestieres. Ministere de
l'Agriculture. ISRA.
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese.  Plan de developpenient clit seceiur seinelnc es. Document 2.
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Plan Strategique. Plan c/e Gestion et /e D';veloppelnent
des Infrastructures, Gros Equipements et Laboratoires
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projel cd entreprise pour I'ISRA.
Rapport de la conimission "Production de vaccins".
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. Plan strategique pour le developpement du secteur semences.
Version 2.
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d 'entreprise pour l'ISRA
Observations des membres du Comite de lecture sur les rapports des commissions du GPS.



Page 90
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d'entreprise pour I 'ISRA:
Rapport de la commission "Centre Nord Bassin Arachidier "
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d 'entreprise pour I 'ISRA:
Rapport de la commission "Zone Maritirme"
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d 'entreprise pour I 'ISRA:
Rapport de la commission "Zone Fleuve"
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. R6flexion prospective. Projet d 'enlreprise por I 'ISRA.
Rapport de la commission Zone des Niaves.
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d 'entreprise pour I 'ISRA
Rapport de la commission Zone Sud du Bassin Arachidier (URR3).
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d'entreprise poiur l'ISR.
Rapport de la commission "Basse et Moyenne Casamance "
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d 'entreprise pour I 'ISRA
Rapport de la comrission "Haute Casamance et Snigal Oriental ".
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. R&flexion prospective. Projet d 'entreprise potur l 'ISRA
Rapport de la commission "Politique agricole et socio-economie'.
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d'entreprise poutr l 'ISRA
Rapport de la commission "Productions vegetales "
Groupe de Prospective et de Synthese. 1996. Reflexion prospective. Projet d 'entreprise pour I 'ISRA
Rapport de la commission "Productions Halieutiques et Ocianographie
ISRA. 1996. Manuel Provisoire de Procedures de I 'ISRA.
ISRA. Centre Nord Bassin Arachidier (CNBA). 1996. Plan Strategique R6gional : Zone Centre Nord
Bassin Arachidier.
ISRA. 1996. Plan Strategique de la Recherche Agricole: Zone des Niayes.
ISRA. 1996. Plan strategique pour l 'ISRA : Rapport de la commission "Politique agricole et socio-
dconomie ". Groupe Prospective et Synthese.
ISRA.  URA - Productions Vegetales.  1996.   Plan Strategique de la Recherche Agricole et
Agroalimentaire.
ISRA. 1996. Projet d'entreprise pour l'ISRA : Rapport de la commission "Informatique ".  Groupe
Prospective et Synthese: Reflexion prospective.
ISRA. 1996. Projet d 'entreprise pour l 'ISRA : Rapport de la commission "Information Scientifique et
Technique ". Prospective et Synthese : Reflexion prospective.
ISRA. 1996. Plan Strategique de I 'ISRA 1997-2003: Conclusions de la Commission IST (Draft 1)



Page 91
ISRA.  1996. Recherches en Matiere de Sanke et Productions Anjinales.  Projet d 'Entreprise:
Commission Sante et Productions Animnales.
Le Centre de Suivi Ecologique (CSE). 1996. Evaluation Environnementale du Plan Stratigiquie de
l'ISRA (Version Provisoire). Ministere de I'Agriculture: ISRA.
Le Centre de Suivi Ecologique (CSE). 1996. Evaluation Environnemnentale dui Plan7, IStrtegique c/c
l'ISRA (Version Provisoire) Annexes. Ministere de l'Agriculture: ISRA.
Ministere de l'Agriculture; Ministere de la Recherche ScientifiqLue et de la Technologie. 1996.Forumn de
la Recherche Agricole et Agro-Alimnentaire . Pour une.fondation c/f la1 recherc he en reponse aux clc;fis
du secteur agricole et agro-alitnentaire..
Ministere de l'Agriculture; Institut Senegalais de Rechercihes Agricoles. 1996. ProcL;clures clc Gestion
Scientifiqute (Giiide des Procec/ures). Version provisoire.
Ministere de l'Agriculture: ISRA. 1996. Plan Stratugique cle Ia Recherche Agricole 1996-2006 pour ka
Zone Sylvo-Pastorale.
Ministere de l'Agriculture. ISRA. 1996. Plan Strategique Zone Sylvo-Pastorale: Annexes cles Tableaux.
Ministere de I'Agriculture. ISRA. 1996. Plan Strake;gique Zone Sylvo-Pastorale . Annexes cles Cartes et
Graphiqcues
Ministere de I'Agriculture.  ISRA.   1996. Plan Strate;giquLe c/e I/C Recherche sur les Proc/uictions
Animales. Unite de Rechercihes d'Appui sur les Productions Animliales.
Note sur les Possibilites de Collaboration ITA/ISRA.
Ndione, Cheikh Mbache, Mamadou Dione, Amadou Diop, Ibrahima Sall et Mamnadou Nguer.  1996.
Projet d 'entreprise pour  'ISRA : Rapport ce ci commission 'Zone Sylvo-Pastorale "
Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture (FAO), Service du Developpement
de la Recherche et de la Technologie (SDRR). 1977. Le syvslc'Ine national de recherche agricole et
agro-alimentaire di Senecgal . Mocalites c/e fincincelient ci long terme de la recherche agricole e
agro-alimentaire.  Ministere de I'Agrictiltuire, Minist6re de la Recherche Scientifique et de la
Technologie
Pichot, Jean-Pascal. 1997. Reflexion s.ur les Parienaricals c/ l 'ISRA . Analyse des contrats de recherche
du projet NRBAR et du portefeuille c/e cotnventions tlc l 'ISRA.
Thiongane, P.L.. 1996 Des modalites cde crcation d'un systeme national de recherches agricoles et agro-
alimentaires. Ministere de l'Agriculture
Thiongane, P.l. 1996  Forum  de la Recherche Agricole el Agro-Alimentaire : Collaboration et
partenariat de l'Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA). Ministere de l'Agriculture.
Ministere de la Recherche Scientifique et de la Technologie



Page 92
Unite de Recherches d'Appui - Foret. 1996. Plan StratMgique Thematique . Comn,lission Productions
Forestieres. Ministere de I'Agriculture: ISRA.
Unite de Recherches Productions Halieutiques et Oceanographie. 1996. Plan Strategiqule The::matique
Productions Halieutiques et Oceanographie. Ministere de l'Agriculture: ISRA.



Page 93
Documents in the Project File
Component "Support to Producer Organizations" (OP)
Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs (OP)
Conseil National de Concertationl et de Cooperation des Ruraux (CNCR).  1997.  Prograromre ae
Re,?forcen0e11t Institutionnel des Organisations cle Producteurs.
Dia, Ibrahima, Samba Diop et Abdrahinane Diallo.  1997.  Rapmport Prov isoire.  Etudtle siwr les
Organisationts Payscmnes et les M&anisnies cle Concerlation  lc/ais le Catire /le ha Rel/ance ci/
Secteur Agricole. Ministere de l'Agriculture. Groupe de Reflexion Strategique.
Fondation Rural de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (FRAO) et West Africa Rural Foundatioll (WARF).  1996.
Appreciation des Prograiniies du CNCR ci inscrire crir Progranrnre dles Services Agrico/es et
'Assistacnce aux Organisations de Prochucteurs r'PSAOP).
llboudo, Jean-Pierre.  1998. Rapport de Mission au Senegal: 16 au 28 janvier 1997. Mfission (le
fincalisation c/tu progranmnme de fornmationi et c/e coniunication poiar le rienforcenrent cles capacileLs
dles orgcnisations des prodlucleuirs . (Conseil naliociil tce conce'rtation cie cooprl;raion cles rm'acux au
S.c;ncgal.
Seck, Ibrahima. 1996. Atelier de Val/ciation chU Programmnre tle Frn'rction/Conmunication.  Conseil
Nationial de Concertation et de Cooperation des Ruraux (CNCR).



Page 94
ANNEX IX
LETTER OF INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OF THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
MARCH 1999



Page 95
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    THE SETTING
II.    CURRENT SITUATION OF RURAL INSTITUTIONS
2.1 Public Institutions Involved in Rural Life
2.1.1 Central and Deconcentrated Administration
2.1.2 Local Authorities
2.2   Nongovernmental Organizations
2.3   Producer Organizations
III.   THE TEN-YEAR INSTITUTIONAL OUTLOOK
ANNEXES
i.    Principles Governing Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Reforms and
Activities
2.    Reforms
2.1.1 Restructuring the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock
2.1.2 Creating a National Extension Services Agency
2.1.3 Reorganizing Agricultural and Agro-Processing Research
3.    Results Expected from the First Phase of the Program



Page 96
1.    THE SETTING
The Incidence of Poverty
Poverty is much more prevalent in the rural areas than in cities.  While 17%  of
households in urban areas are classified as poor, this percentage rises to 45% in the countryside.
The latter figure also masks some very marked discrepancies among regions, with the poverty
ratio ranging from 38% in Casamance to 53% in Kolda. Comparisons among administrative
departments show an even wider variations in the incidence of poverty, the extremes being
Kedougou and Mbacke.
Human development indicators in rural areas - nutrition, andl illiteracy and mortality
rates - provide clear evidence of poverty. Access to essential social services is very limited
Nearly 30% of Senegal's population falls short of the minimum recommended daily
intake of 1,400 kcal per person. In 1997, the rate of illiteracy among women stood at 77%,
compared with the national average of 52.8%; the rate of maternal mortality was 510 per
10,000, and the infant-and-child mortality rate was 154 per 1,000. Nearly 40% of the rural
population lives too far (i.e. more than 5 km) from a primary health center, and only 26% have
access to safe drinking water.
Basic economic infrastructure is inadequate and in poor condition
Despite the considerable resources deployed, the electrification rate is only 5% in rural
areas, compared with 50% in the cities. In contrast to the country's network of paved highways,
totaling some 14,200 km, the classified network of feeder roads and earth roads serving rural
areas is inadequate (about 5000 km), and is not maintained. There is no complete picture of the
unclassified network, consisting primarily of earth roads and feeder roads, because it was built
without any overall planning by a number of different agencies (i.e. the State, local authorities,
agricultural development projects, and NGOs), and there is no proper institutional framework for
managing it. In effect, there has been no national strategy or policy for rural transportation, as
exists for other sectors.
Agricultural output in comparison with needs
The degree of self-sufficiency in domestic food production is a cause of concern. In the
case of cereals, output in the 1990-95 period averaged 1.17 million tons of consumable products
per year, meeting only half the requirements; the shortfall had to be made up through imports
(i.e. 350,000 tons of rice, and 100,000 tons of wheat). The domestic output of cereals has been
declining since 1996.
A more detailed breakdown of these figures shows that in most of the 20 departments the
last ten harvests have fallen short of gross cereal requirements, estimated at 185 kg per person
per year. Output in the remainder of the country is inadequate, leaving the populace exposed to
food shortages when transfers fail to materialize.



Page 97
As regards animal products, meat consumption is low, at about 11.5 kg per person per
year, annual milk consumption stands at 21 liters per person, and egg consumption is 18 units per
person.
To a very large degree, fish products - obtained through artisanal fishing - help offset the
animal protein deficit. Fish consumption stands at about 25 kg per person per year.
This worrisome food situation reflects the limited and erratic growth in the agriculture
sector as a whole (crops and livestock), even following devaluation. The primary sector (crops,
livestock, fishing, and forestry) has been growing at an average annual rate of 1.3% in real terms,
which is slower than the 2.7% annual rate of population growth over the 1990-95 period.
Constraints facing Senegal's agriciulture
Agriculture employs from  65%  to 70%  of Senegal's active popillation, which is
distributed over 480,000 farms; however, its productivity is very low, and it contributes only
about 20% of GDP.
In the wake of structural adjustment reforms and the devaluation of the CFAF.
agricultural performance has recovered slightly, but continues to face a number of constraints:
-  Natural constraints, arising from: (i) limited and variable rainfall: in the past 20 years.
Senegal has suffered 11 droughts; (ii) saturation and degradation of the land: nearly 50% of
on farm land is degraded.
*  Structural constraints: the small average size of farm lots. Nationwide, the average area
per farmer that is planted with groundnuts and cereals is respectively 0.27 ha and 0.37 ha. In
irrigated areas, the average size of individual plots is between 0.25 ha and 1.00 ha. The
number of persons per farm ranges from 6 to 13, with a national average of 10, while the
number of persons actually engaged in farm work is between 5 and 10, with a national
average of 8.
.  Economic constraints:  Farmers' real income has declined, leading to a considerable
reduction in the use of agricultural inputs.
*  Social constraints: The average farming household consists of about 11.2 persons. 'I'he
working-age population has a 33.3% shortfall in the age range most suitable for farm work
(25-49 years).  Farmers do not have the education standards necessary for taking full
advantage of rural extension services, and 91.3% of farmers have not even received a
primary school education.
*  Constraints resulting from  inadequate agricultural policies:  (i) Access to credit is
difficult; (ii) there is a shortage of high-quality seed, especially for groundnut production;
(iii) farm equipment is obsolete; (iv) the law governing public ownership of land is
inadequate and too rigid, and stands in the way of secure investment and sustainable farm



Page 98
management; (v) there is a lack of sufficiently large financial resources, especially in the
livestock subsector.
* Technical constraints: The technologies and know-how that are transferred are often
inappropriate, and unaffordable out of the proceeds from farming.
Despite these constraints, the agricultural sector enjoys a number of advantages.
Resource and production advantages
Most of Senegal is endowed with considerable water resources (surface water.
groundwater, and Maastrichtian formations) that can be used for irrigation purposes. The
Senegal River Valley, in particular, is of great importance, as are the basins of the Gambia and
Casamance Rivers.
The southern part of the "Groundnut Basin" has significant potential for growing cereals
as well as cash crops like groundnuts. Senegal's prime location on the Atlantic Coast provides it
with a temperate climate for five months of the year, and offers scope for growing off-season
horticultural products for the European market.  The livestock sector enjoys considerable
advantages because of its high growth rate (3% for cattle and 6% for poultry). Moreover, there
are prospects for further growth and employment in the agricultural sector, because of its
upstream and downstream linkages. Productivity in the rainfed sector, which accounts for 95%
of the total farming population, could be increased at a modest cost by applying technologies that
make little use of currently imported inputs.
Advantages derivedfrom policy reforms
In an effort to improve the overall economic environment and revive various sectors,
particularly agriculture, Senegal has undertaken a series of reforms that have set the country on
the path to economic growth in the wake of the CFAF devaluation. From standing at 2% in
1994, annual GDP growth has averaged 5% percent over the last three years. Inflation, which
reached 32% at the time of the 1994 devaluation, was down to 3% in 1997.
In agriculture, the reforms have led to government divestiture and to the privatization and
restructuring of the public enterprises responsible for rural and agricultural development, the
transfer to farmers of the responsibility for functions formerly carried out by public agencies, the
removal of a number of subsidies, and the liberalization of prices, markets, and trade.
The Government has been reducing - albeit slowly - its considerable role in the sector, as
well as that of the private monopolies, whose presence has had the effect of distorting prices, the
distribution of inputs, processing, the marketing of farm products, and imports of inputs and food
products. Efforts to improve the sector are continuing, especially with regard to exports, which
still face a number of regulatory obstacles that restrict their ability to penetrate increasingly
competitive foreign markets.



Page 99
Consequently, the Government's reforms for eliminating distortions and improving the
macroeconomic and sectoral framework have helped create a favorable environment for
investment in agriculture. They led to the liberalization of rice imports in October 1995. the
privatization of rice farms that had previously been operated by SAED (Socie ( 'AmLnnagement
et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delia dui Fleuve: the Senegal River Valley Development
Agency), and the dissolution in Febniary 1996 of CPSP (Caisse de PNrq&uation et de
Stabilisation des Prix: the Price Stabilization Agency). SONACOS (Socic4j Nationale de
Commercialisation des Oleagineux: the Groundnut Oil Company) is in the process of being
privatized, and the oil-seed price stabilization fiind was reorganized in 1995. SODEFITEX
(Societe pour le Developpement des Fibires Textiles: the Cotton Development Company) is
being reorganized in order to separate its public-service activities from its commercial (i.e.
processing) interests. Over the medium term, it is planned to open up SODEFITEX to
investment from the private sector and producer organizations.
The above reforms, applied to the agricultural sector as a whole, have helped bring about
a financial recovery in the various subsectors, and remove the major market distortions resulting
from  pricing and nontariff measures.  Moreover, farmers' organizations and private-sector
operators are now playing an effective part in managing the various subsectors, and mechanisms
have been established to facilitate consultation within the various subsectors (i.e. groundnuts,
horticulture, rice, livestock, cotton, commercial tomato-growing, meat production, and poultry).
The subsectors have raised their prices by indexing them to international markets, in an effort to
boost production. Overall, this pricing policy has produced increases in real prices for most
crops, and in particular for domestic cereals (i.e. corn, millet, and sorghum).
Some subsectors have become slightly more competitive since the monetary adjustments
in January 1994 (the change in the parity of the CFAF). In particular, horticulture and livestock
have shown dynamic growth, averaging respectively 3.2% and 4%; however, the output of
industrial crops (groundnuts and cotton) has only slightly increased, as a result of more
intensified cultivation. Despite the structural constraints affecting irrigated rice growing in the
Senegal River basin (which are now being removed as a result of agreements with domestic and
international partners), this activity has made an encouraging showing over the last three years,
with output growth averaging nearly 30%. Finally, new crops such as sesame and the outlook
for flower growing and poultry raising hold out new prospects for diversifying agricultural
output.
The Government is now focusing its efforts on creating a favorable climate for the
growth of the private sector, and on providing access to basic social services (health, education,
water, etc.). Significant progress has been made in this regard. Producer organizations are seen
as partners of the Government, and the decentralization process is gradually empowering local
elected officials and rural communities, so that they can play an active role in managing their
resources and their own development.



Page 100
II.    CURRENT SITUATION OF RURAL INSTITUTIONS
2.1   Public Institutions Involved in Rural Life
These are of two kinds:  the Central Government and its local '"deconcentrated"
representatives, and decentralized local authorities.
2.1.1 Central and Deconcentrated Administration
Several ministries have responsibilities in rural affairs; i.e. the Ministries of the Interior,
Environment and Nature Protection, Water Resources, Livestock, Fisheries, Family Support,
Social Action, and National Solidarity, and Agriculture. They carry out their activities through
their respective service organizations in the country's 1 0 regions and 30 departments.
The departmental and local services of these ministries operate in a compartmentalized
fashion. It is only at the level of the coordination committees organized by the authorities in
each region that the various services are able to pool information, examine each other's data, and
(occasionally) coordinate their logistical resources.
At arrondissement leiel, there are the veterinary posts of the Ministry of Livestock, and -
most importantly - the CERPs (centres d'expansion *urale polyvalents:  multipurpose rural
development centers). These are operated by the Ministry of the Interior, and are supposed to
consist of eight specialists in different fields; however, they are very short of human, physical,
and financial resources, despite the important role they once played among rural communities.
Their initial tasks of providing planning, outreach, and support have been greatly expanded to
include what are essentially administrative functions. In fact, more use has been made of CERP
staff by the local administration than by the line ministries.
The deconcentrated national administration (governors, prefects, and subprefects)
represents the State in the 10 regions, 30 departments, and 98 arrondissements, and operates
under appointed officials.
Administrative and Technical Services of the
Ministry of Agriculture and thie Ministry of Livestock
Until July 1998, the Ministry of Agriculture was responsible for services relating to both
crop production and livestock. The latter area has now been taken over by the Ministry of
Livestock, which was established as a result of the most recent govemment reorganization (in
August 1998).
At national level, the agriculture and livestock services include the central technical
directorates (for agriculture, plant protection, rural works, and horticulture) and the livestock
directorate. At regional and departmental level, the agriculture and livestock services are offered
in the 10 regions and 30 departments. At arrondissement level, the ministries are represented
either by the CERPs or by their own offices.



Page 101
The regional and departmental services have similar functions, combined with
supervision and coordination. Their work generally has a sectoral focus, and is guided mainly by
national directives. They have significant human resources, but their lack of sufficient operating
expenditures prevents them from providing adequate support for development. In addition to
their operational difficulties, the deconcentrated State services are unable to carry out their
missions properly, mainly because of their organizational weaknesses (i.e. decision making is
centralized, and competencies and responsibilities are compartmentalized).
Regional Corporations and Projects
During the 1980s, bilateral and multilateral cooperation institutions tended to work
systematically with SRDRs (regional rural development agencies), or with project-based
agencies, rather than directly with government agencies. There are currently three SRDRs
(SAED, SODEFITEX and SODAGRI), now that SODESP and SODEVA are in the process of
being wound up. There are about 20 projects now under implementation in the country as a
whole.
It should be noted that, despite these activities relating to SRDRs and projects, the State
technical and administrative services have nonetheless continued to operate, as far as their
resources allowed.
As a result, the current system of support consists of a great many uncoordinated forms of
government and parapublic activity. Because the local SRDRs are mainly concerned with their
own programs and wield significantly greater resources, they have done little to establish links
with the deconcentrated services or the CERPs.
Farming and rural extension services
Senegal has considerable experience in providing extension services based on policies
and strategies that have been adjusted to meet changes over time. This experience has been
gained through specific projects, such as the SATEC/SODEVA project in the "Groundnut
Basin", independent projects, the SRDRs, the national directorates (agriculture, livestock, water
resources and forests), NGOs, and farmers' organizations. A diagnostic study of these programs
revealed their limitations, and laid the groundwork for formulating the PAGRI (the Pilot
Program for Improving Farmers' Support Services), and subsequently the PNVA (the National
Agricultural Extension Program of 1990).
The following are the main lessons learned from the implementation of PVNA between
1990 and 1995:
The procedure of obtaining services through agreements with the agencies concerned did not
work, because the personnel involved was not under the supervision of the Program
Management Unit.



Page 102
* The thematic approach adopted has failed to take account of producers' concerns arising
from local production systems.
*  The Program's methods and the human resources assigned to it have been inadequate to meet
the overall objective of 60% coverage.
*  The absence of any real involvement of producer organizations in the contact groups has
made it impossible to establish any effective partnership with them. Producers have never
had a truly autonomous forum in which to give any free and concerted expression to their
technology needs. What forums have been available to them have been the result of external
initiatives (cooperatives and village committees, associations, and recently the PNVA contact
groups). The result is that needs have tended to be defined by government agencies' staff.
rather than producers.
.  The officially proposed technology packages have not always taken account producers'
priorities. They have been designed rather to deal with the technical constraints affecting the
presumed "best use" of land in each area.
The content of activities was determined, therefore, not by the expressed wishes of
producers, but rather by what was available from  the system  itself., which selected those
initiatives it deemed most likely to increase output, and tried to get producers to accept them.
Agricultifral and Agro-Processing Research
The ISRA  (Institzat SenJgalaise de Recherches Agricoles: the Senegal Agricultural
Research Institute) and ITA  (Instit ut de Technologie Alimentaire:  the Food Technology
Institute) were established essentially to plan and carry out research in all areas of agricultural
production (farning. livestock, forestry, and fisheries) and agro-processing activities, in response
to the public and private sectors and farmers' organizations.
However, they lack the organizational and operating stability necessary for such
functions. Their institutional structure is inappropriate and they are heavily dependent on
external financing (70%), two factors that have had a serious impact on the research capacities of
the two institutes. A further weakness is the way needs are identified ancd research activities are
planned.
Despite these shortcomings, they have produced some undeniable results; but a critical
assessment shows that few of the research findings have been disseminated. This failure has
called into question the value of these research results and the mechanisms, methods, and
conditions for their transfer. Many of the innovations proposed on the basis of this research have
been woefully out of line with socioeconomic realities and the concrete problems facing farmers
and potential users.
Moreover, coordination with development agencies and producer organizations is
sporadic and informal, apart from certain built-in or contractual links or the program committees



Page 103
that have recently been put in place. This has meant poor communication with development
partners, and cooperative efforts that have often been ill-defined and ineffective.
Agricultural policy-making, as well as the research and development entities, have taken
little or no account of how farms actually operate (objectives, constraints, strategic advantages,
factors leading to strategic choices, and environmental impacts). This has led to inconsistent and
inappropriate choices of research topics, farm extension efforts, and development initiatives.
Finally, the institutional performance of ISRA. the major agricultural research body, has
been far from  ideal.  Its financial and accounting management suffers from  numerous
shortcomings.  Its infrastructure network is too large for the resources it has available for
maintaining and making effective use of the facilities.
2.1.2 Local Authorities
The Decenitralization Law of March 22, 1996 established local authorities [collectivii's
locaIles] possessing legal personality. The new legislation is still in the "breaking in" process.
Since January 1997. decentralized local authorities have been set up at two levels in rural areas:
Rural Communities [Comnzunauc;s Rurales]]. numbering some 320, and representing the
grassroots level, and Regions (10 regions). These have both legal personality and financial
autonomy, and are self-managing, through their elected councils.
The decentralization legislation. while retaining the authority of the State, transferred to
these local governments a number of powers that were previously vested in the central
authorities. Nine functions that previously belonged to the deconcentrated administration were
thus transferred by law to the local level. These relate primarily to the environment and natural
resource management, land use and planning. The powers of the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Livestock were not transferred, however, and remain with the Central and
Deconcentrated Administration.
Rural Communities
The rural community has been a feature of the institutional landscape in Senegal since
1972, and it plays a key role in the development of village lands. The rural community is an
entity comprising several villages in the same area. It has legal personality and financial
autonomy, and exercises the following powers:
(i)   In the area of environment and natural resource management, the rural community now
has the right to manage forests within its territory, to create protected wooded areas, and
to prepare and implement local environmental action plans and to enforce land ownership
regulations.
(ii)   In terms of planning, the rural community has the power to prepare and carry out local
development plans.



Page 104
(iii)   As regards land use, it has the right to give advice on any regional land-use scheme
before it is approved by the State.
Regions
The regions have the same geographical borders as the regional administrative units.
Each is represented by a regional council, the members of which (known as Regional
Councilors) are elected. The council operates as the region's deliberative body. and elects a
"Bureau" from among its members. The President of the regional council is the region's
executive officer, and is responsible for managing areas under its control. The region's operating
revenues are-expected to come from State contributions through the annual grants allocation,
plus local revenues from land, regional output. and its own assets.
The regional council is responsible for development planning, with the support of a Rural
Development Agency (ARD). It initiates its own projects, and may offer advisory opinions on
projects initiated by the State.  It conducts land-use planning and carries out regional
development plans.
(i)   In the area of environment and natural resource management, the region is responsible for
managing. protecting and maintaining forests and protected areas, for protecting nature,
for managing inland waters, and for preparing, implementing, and monitoring regional
environmenital action plans or projects.
(ii)   As regards planning, the region is empowered to prepare and carry out PRDIs (regional
plans for integrated development).
(iii)   With respect to land-use planning, it prepares its own regional plan (SRAT = Schema
Rigional d 'Atncnagemenl du Territoire).
2.2    Non-governmental Organizations
There are many such organizations in Senegal, but they are particularly numerous in the
North (the St. Louis Region) and the South (the Ziguinchor Region). They are active in many
fields, although most of them operate in areas that fall under the Ministry of Family Support,
Social Action, and National Solidarity. They focus on providing tec]hnical and institutional
support at the grassroots level. They have established partnerships with the POs [producer
organizations], using participatory methods and tools for diagnosis and programming, and for
providing farmning and rural development advice. Along with the Government's extension
services, they are the main bodies active in providing advice and support to farmers.
Although NGOs have established bodies to coordinate their efforts, there are
shortcomings evident in both their activities and their approach. Their areas of intervention are
generally very small, which limits the impact of their work. They suffer a scarcity of human
resources, and must frequently turn to the Government's technical services for support.



Page 105
2.3   Farmers' Organizations
The first type of farmers' organization set up by the government serv-ices were the
cooperatives. Some 338 of these have been established in various fields of activity: crop
farming, livestock, horticulture, and consumer products. Producers' groups at the village level
have been in existence since the early 1970s. Women's organizations appeared in the 1980s and
now number 4,000. They have their own federation, based on the existing territorial divisions,
but they face a number of constraints resulting from the social structure and their level of
education, which is generally lower than that found in the men's organizations. Since the 1970s,
other producer organizations have sprung up (based on groups, associations, unions, and
informal agreements), alongside those sponsored by the State or the NGOs. The groupements
d 'interet economiquie (GlEs) that were set up in 1984 following the adoption of Law 84-07 have
a legal status that allows them to borrow money and to undertake productive activities. Because
of the advantages enjoyed by this type of organization, the GIEs have flourished and have
become common in subsectors such as livestock, horticulture, fishing, and forestry. Many of
them have joined together to form national networks.
Bodies known as confites interprofessionnel.s have been set up to coordinate and manage
certain subsectors (i.e. groundnuts, cotton, tomatoes, rice, livestock, and poultry). They provide
the channels through wlhich management of these subsectors has been transferred from the State
to the operators themselves (i.e. to the farmers' organizations and the private sector). Their
members are the professionals specializing in the various activities within each subsector, who
serve as interlocutors for the State and the donors in respect of all political and economic
decisions affecting their respective subsectors.
Farmers' organizations have set up broader groups to reinforce their individual efforts.
Thus, national unions or federations have been created, based on the existing territorial divisions.
The unions are organized at rural community level, as well as at arrondissement, departmental,
and regional level.
In 1993, nine of these PO federations set up CNCR (the National Rural People Council
for Consultation and Cooperation), which is now the prime interlocutor of the government on
rural development. CNCR is concentrating its efforts on enhancing the institutional capacities of
the POs to provide useful services to their members. From a legal and practical viewpoint, each
member of CNCR is an independent PO unit. CNCR seeks to develop synergy among the
federations, promoting consultation and cooperation.
Many farmers' organizations suffer from inadequate internal governance and an
inadequate ability on the part of their human resources to identify their needs, to establish
mechanisms for consultation, and to play an effective role in the dialogue with the State, the
NGOs, and the private sector. CNCR is one of the most representative organization, and has
tackled the challenge of enhancing its members' capacities and the internal governance of the
federations.



Page 106
III. THE TEN-YEAR INSTITUTIONAL OUTLOOK
Agricultural statistics for Senegal reveal several features olf the country's production
system: (i) most farms are of the family type: and (ii) they are small. are located on village
lands, and tend to be intertwined with one another.
The results of agricultural policies to date, and the effects of the existing constraints,
suggest that the dominant pattern of agriculture by the year 2010 is likely to be that of the mixed
farm, run on a family basis. although the number of farmers as a proportion of the active
population will decline. These family operations will be mixed farms not only in the sense that
they will include crops and livestock production and exploiting forest resources, but also because
they will develop new activities and new occupations related to the processing of thei-r output,
which will enable them to respond better to growing consumer demand, while generating
increased value added.
The irreversible modernization of production systems - brought about by the
fundamental changes resulting from the new rural development policies under the PSAOP
(Programmt7e Services Agricoles el Organisations cdes Produlcteurs: the Program of Agricultural
Services and Producer Organizations) - should help reduce production costs and boost output, in
ways that will:
*  ensure the economic viability of farming and help increase market share domestically and
internationally:
. make the farming system more sustainable by encouraging the preservation of natural
resotirces.
In addition to family farms of this type, commercial agriculture will also be developed,
and will work in synergy with smallholder farming. In the end, however, it is the producers
themselves that will continue to be at the core of agricultural development. They will make their
own choices about both their activities and production objectives.
The agricultural development strategy adopted by the State in cooperation with its
partners and contained in the Strategic Planning Document, together with the institutional
reforms accompanying it, must be such as to allow farmers, as individuals or organizations, to
flourish within an improved institutional and policy framework that will:
(a)    improve  market access (through  information  systems, infrastructure, storage,
transportation, etc.);
(b)   provide a regulatory and legislative framework that will ensure transparency and
competitiveness as well as security for investments;
(c)    offer agricultural extension and research services capable of meeting producers'
demands;



Page 107
(d)    strengthen their technical and commercial capacities;
(e)    provide a framework for dialogue and negotiation so that partnerships can be established
among all stakeholders;
(f)    ensure greater transparency in the bodies that represent them.
With implementation of this agricultural strategy and its accompanying institutional
framework, it should be possible over the next ten years to ensure that:
*  Local, regional and national producer organizations are efficiently and transparently
managed and are able to: (i) provide or arrange services for their members to help them
increase their productivity and output: (ii) give effective expression - in technical terms - to
their views and opinions with respect to the generation and transfer of technologies; (iii)
assume responsibility for financing research and extension services, by drawing on the funds
raised through the current levies on agrictltural products, among other sources.
*  Interprofessional associations play a proper role in upgrading and managing the various
agricultural subsectors.
e  Agricultural extension services will meet the needs of producers and be accountable to them.
Decisions on such extension programs should be taken by the producer organizations
themselves, which should cover a substantial portion of the cost of such services.
*  At local level, research and development activities and farm extension services will be
identified and planned jointly with producer organizations and will be formalized through
contracts between the organizations, on one hand, and the research and extension services, on
the other.
*  Agricultural and agro-processing research paradigms will be reconsidered so as to respond in
a rational way to the needs expressed by producers. Such research should support producers
in their strategies, pay more attention to the interplay of economic forces at national and
regional level, keep operations in line with the Government's major development projects,
and analyze in detail each of the agricultural subsectors, from production to consumption,
including processing and marketing. It will be carried out by competent, productive,
responsive, and motivated personnel. Financing for agricultural and agro-industrial activities
will be provided for the most part by an agency separate from the one conducting the actual
research work. Thus, a National Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Research Fund will be set
up for financing research activities. It will be managed independently from the research
institutes themselves. Decisions about the allocation of research resources will be taken by a
technical committee made up of individually appointed and respected scientists, and a
management committee on which users of the research results will be represented. This fund
will constitute an essential step towards building the new national system for agricultural and
agro-industrial research.



Page 108
*  The Ministries will be in a position to define and supervise policies in cooperation with
sectoral operators/partners, within a system of deconcentrated administration. This function
will be aimed primarily at ensuring equitable access to resources nationally, exploiting the
comparative advantages of Senegal's agriculture in the regional and international context,
and promoting sound environmental management.
*  The regulatory framework will be improved and public investments rationalized so as to
foster growth and efficiency and enhance the security of private investment in the
agricultural sector.
Institutional development policy will focus on setting up rural development institutions
that are equipped to promote this vision. To this end, government policy will give priority to
three areas:
* Strengthening the capacity of farmers' organizations so that they can play an effective role,
in consultation with other rural stakeholders, in undertaking development activities.
*  Promoting a stronger private farming sector.
.  Strengthening the capacities of government services by refocusing them on their public
service mission, and improving their effectiveness by making them accountable to users for
the results of their work. In particular the CERPs will be strengthened so as to provide
improved outreach and support services for local authorities, as part of the decentralization
process.



Page 109
ANNEXES
1.    Principles Governing Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Reforms
and Activities
The general principle adopted by the Government is that it should transfer to the private
sector and the POs all functions that they are objectively capable of assuming, apart from the
prerogatives of the State. The Government will provide the POs and the private sector with the
necessary support to ensure that this transfer is successful.
The Government will rationalize the public agricultural service organizations by
reviewing their missions, roles and forms of organization (technical directorates, regional and
local services of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, SRDRs and projects, and research
and rural extension services), with the following objectives:
* A sound legislative and regulatory environment for production (implementing the
liberalization policy for the various subsectors), and improved market access for producers,
provided through an appropriate information system.
* A new farm and rural extension system open to participation by agricultural organizations
and private operators, in which each stakeholder can play a role consistent with its
comparative advantages. Transparent management systems that stress accountability to
producers will allow any shortcomings or inefficiencies to be detected.
* A national agricultural and agro-industrial research system, comprising all stakeholders in
such research, and supported by permanent financing through a national agricultural and
agro-industrial research fund that is separate and independent from the research institutes
themselves.
* Strengthening of the mission of government services by defining and implementing methods
for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of agricultural policies.
The reforms and activities planned to this end will lead to a rural development support
system based on a concerted approach (involving the POs, the State, and the private sector),
enabling the needs of family farms to be identified, validated, and resolved.
This concerted approach will mean a break with the methods used in the past for meeting
farmers' needs.
2.    Reforms
2.1   Institutional Reorganization of the Services of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock
The program for reorganizing agricultural services will mean a restructuring of the
central, regional and local services of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, reorganizing



Page 110
agricultural and agro-industrial research, and setting up a new rural extension service with the
participation of farmers' organizations and the private sector.
2.1.1 Restructuring the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock
The activities conducted to date by the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock can be
grouped into three categories:
*  Activities that belong properly to the private sector and that must now be- transferred to
private operators, and preferably to agricultural and rural professional organizations.
*  Activities that require collaboration between the Government, professional organizations,
and private operators. This is particularly relevant to the agricultural and rural extension
services.
*  Activities that belong exclusively to the public domain and that must be performed by the
Government. These may be classified into three broad functions:
. the planning, analysis, and forecasting function serving as the basis for defining
agricultural development policy programs;
* the monitoring, coordination, and evaluation function for the implementation of
agricultural development activities and policies by the various public and private
operators;
* the regulation and oversight of the various areas for which the Ministries of Agriculture
and Livestock are responsible.
The planned new organization is designed to fulfill these three broad public service
functions. The key purposes underlying the new organization of the Ministries of Agriculture
and Livestock are:
* to strengthen initiative, responsibilities and management capacity among officials at regional,
departmental, and local level, and to decentralize human, physical, and financial resources;
*  to give greater consistency and cohesion to their activities by:
* organizing them on the basis of their major functions, as opposed to the subsector
approach;
* breaking down barriers between services at central level;
*  bringing all agricultural services under a single Regional Agricultural Directorate; this
Directorate is established because of the need to ensure consistency and coordination in
the development efforts of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, in a context of
integrated development;



Page 111
*  to enhance the capacities of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock, at both central and
regional levels, for information gathering and analysis and projections of agricultural and
livestock development; this will enable the two ministries to play a larger role in taking
initiatives and proposing development policies and programs at all levels;
*  to strengthen the regulatory and supervisory functions of the ministries so as to create an
economic and commercial environment that will foster the development of agricultural
output.
The proposed organizational structure is as follows:
At departmental level:
The Departmental Agricultural Service is the field operations body of the Ministry of
Agriculture. It includes two bureaus:
The Planning and Statistics Bureau;
The Plant Protection and Seed Inspection Bureau.
These bureaus will consist of teams assigned to work locally in farming areas. Their size
and composition will vary, depending on the scope and complexity of the tasks they must
undertake in order to respond to farmers' needs.
The departmental service director will be responsible for the planning, coordination,
monitoring, support, and evaluation of the teams' work and results.
The Ministry of Livestock will be represented at departmental level by an inspectorate of
veterinary services, consisting of staff working locally with veterinary posts.  It will be
concerned primarily with livestock regulation and supervision, pest management and prevention,
and the collection of statistical data.
At regional level:
The services of the Ministry of Agriculture at regional level are grouped together under a
Regional Directorate, which includes:
the Analysis, Projections, and Statistics Division;
the Rural Works and Irrigation Division;
the Plant Products Division;
the Administrative and Financial Division;
the Animal Products Division.
The Ministry of Livestock will be represented at regional level by the inspectorates of
veterinary services in each region. Essentially, they will be concerned with the regulation and
supervision of livestock activities, and pest management and prevention.



Page 112
The programs of activities and the budgets of the agencies at regional level will be
prepared by the regional technical divisions and consolidated by the regional directorate. They
will be forwarded to central level for analysis by the technical directorates before being adopted
by the Ministry before the beginning of the financial year. Once these programs and budgets
have been adopted, they will be executed by the regional technical divisions under the
supervision and coordination of the Regional Director. The central technical directorates will
provide technical support, monitoring, and evaluation of the technical activities of the regional
divisions.
At central level:
At central level, the Ministry of Agriculture consists of:
the Office of the Minister;
the Technical Inspection Office;
the Analysis, Projections, and Statistics Directorate;
the Agriculture Directorate;
the Horticulture Directorate;
the Plant Protection Directorate;
the Rural Works and Irrigation Directorate;
the General Administration and Infrastructure Directorate.
The Ministry of Livestock will consist of:
the Office of the Minister;
the Technical Inspection Office;
the Administration and Management Service (SAGE);
a Studies, Planning, and Monitoring/Evaluation Unit;
the Livestock Directorate;
the National Technical Training Center for the Livestock Industry.
2.1.2 Creating a National Extension Services Agency (ANCAR)
The creation of such an agency has become necessary because of the poor performance of
Senegal's agriculture, despite implementation of the National Agricultural and Rural Extension
Program.
If this new approach to providing rural extension services is to be effective and provide
proper support for the new institutional framework, it will need to develop strong partnerships
among all the stakeholders in domestic agriculture (i.e. the State, local authorities, producer
organizations, and the private sector). This framework presupposes both decentralization and a
political will to support and strengthen the producer organizations so they can play their proper
role in defining and implementing the policies that affect them.



Page 113
As regards activities, the Agency will provide support services, but it will also help
improve the management of natural resources. As well, it will provide information to producers
about related activities and upstream and downstream linkages to plant and animal production.
This new approach to agricultural and rural extension services begins with the
recognition that it is the producers who have the prime responsibility for improving their systems
of production and the management of their lands.
In keeping with this new approach, extension services will be expected to:
* build upon the producers' own know-how, taking it as the starting-point for helping them
improve their agro-ecological and socioeconomic environment;
*  develop - in conjunction with producers and their organizations - an appreciation of the local
agricultural situation, in the context of the rural community;
e  involve beneficiaries in the entire process of preparing, implementing, and evaluating
extension messages in the form of: (i) statement of needs; (ii) development of content; (iii)
participation in dissemination; (iv) impact evaluation;
*  ensure that advisers are accountable to the beneficiaries for the outcome of operations, on the
basis of contracts between the producer organizations and the Agency;
*  develop technical methods and standards that will be responsive to the needs of producers, by
creating a tripartite and decentralized forum for dialogue among ANCAR, the researchers,
and the POs.
The previously existing relationship will be fundamentally altered once producer
organizations, local authorities, and the private sector are involved in the Agency's decision-
making, financing and management. ANCAR and its staff will be held accountable to their
beneficiaries for the results of their work. The latter will judge the quality of the service and
determine the level of their contribution to the agency's work according to their degree of
satisfaction; thus, the future of the agricultural and rural extension service will be closely linked
to its effectiveness and its positive impact.
At rural community level, this three-way dialogue involving ANCAR, the POs, and the
researchers will allow for a shared analysis of farmners' needs in terms of extension services and
research topics.
The farm extension program will thus be based on a participatory diagnostic study. The
program will be implemented in accordance with contracts between one or more POs and
ANCAR. Under these contracts, the POs will contribute to the financing of the program, at a
level to be determined in each contract on a case-by-case basis.
ANCAR will provide free extension services to poor farmers and to those who are not
members of organizations.



Page 114
ANCAR's activities will be developed under a joint strategy with the POs, according to
the following schedule:
Year 1 -- 57 rural communities;
Year 2 -- 142 rural communities;
Year 3 -- 227 rural communities;
Year 4 -- 320 rural communities.
The project will be expected to reach 142 rural communities by the end of the first phase.
2.1.3 Reorganizing Agricultural and Agro-processing Research
The disappointing impact that agricultural research has had on rural development to date
calls for a change of approach and new methods for identifying research topics. Every effort
must be devoted to the following issues:
*  Research should pay more attention to the needs of beneficiaries. The mandate for ISRA and
ITA must be drawn up in light of clear market signals and farmers' real needs. The intention
to conduct research that is more in keeping with current and future social demands is the
motivation underlying the establishment of the new program committees and of a research
and development unit. Consequently, researchers will need to take account of the R&D
diagnostic studies organized by the POs.
*  High-quality research: Research institutes will need to ensure the overall quality of their
work, and must be able to count on competent, productive and motivated human resources.
The Scientific and Technical Committees of the research institutes will conduct a systematic
evaluation of research work and its results, and of the researchers themselves, on the basis of
international standards such as those of CAMES (Conseil africain et maigache pour
/'enseignement superieur: African and Malagasy Council on Higher Education) or CORAF
(Conference des responsables de recherche agronomique africains: the Conference of
African Agricultural Research Directors).
Research will be reorganized with the following goals in mind:
  Institutional stability for research units - both in terms of organization and human resources
- will be ensured by making ISRA and ITA into autonomous public institutions, known as
etablissements publics a caractere scientifique et technique, with new regulations and bylaws
to allow beneficiaries and other partners to sit on their boards of directors.
*  Sustainable research financing will be sought by setting up a National Agricultural Research
Fund that will include units for selecting and managing research projects. This fund will
provide financing on a selective basis for research projects submitted by teams from ISRA
and ITA, and also from other entities in the SNRAA (the National System for Agricultural
and Agro-Industrial Research).



Page 115
* ISRA will be re-scaled to bring its network of infrastructure into line with the resources
available to it.
The interface between research and development had limited results. Recognition of this
fact lay behind creation of the Research and Development Unit, formed jointly by ISRA, ITA,
ANCAR and CNCR (the National Rural People Council for Consultation and Cooperation).
4.2.2 Strengthening Producer Organizations
so that they can Fulfill their Proper Functions
The goal here is to turn producer organizations into strong and representative institutions
that can play their full role as partners in development. Support will be provided for producer
organizations at three levels: (i) grassroots producer organizations; (ii) federations; and (iii)
national coordination agencies, in particular CNCR.
Grassroots organizations will be strengthened with a view to:
*  providing producer organizations that can serve as vehicles by which institutions and
agencies can channel support to the largest possible number of family farms;
.  establishing CLCOPs (Cadre Local de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs:
Local Forums of Consultation for Producer Organizations). A CLCOP is a forum that brings
together all the POs in a rural community so as to:
- represent their interests in contacts with other institutions and coordination bodies (rural
extension services, etc.);
*  ensure consistency in the support and assistance provided for POs, in accordance with
their priori.ies;
*  negotiate with development partners on the allocation of roles, responsibilities, and
resources for implementing programs and projects in support of POs;
*  allocate resources for PO development activities, in line with the priorities of the POs
themselves;
*  monitor all activities undertaken in support of POs, and assess trends in these.
At regional level, the CLCOPs will have the option of forming themselves into CRCOPs
(Cadres Regionaux de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs: Regional Forums of
Consultation for Producer Organizations). A CRCOP will be a coordination mechanism,
intended to:
* promote improved approaches to common problems on the part of support services and other
institutions involved in rural development, particularly regional R&D units;



Page 116
* encourage exchanges of information and experience among CLCOPs;
* negotiate and oversee implementation of development activities affecting a number of
CLCOPs;
* accept and carry out mandates issued by the CLCOPs.
To facilitate the establishment and sustainable operation of these institutions, the
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project will provide for:
* targeted training at village level, and inter-village exchanges;
* promotion and operational support for the CLCOPs and CRCOPs;
* support for innovation;
* help for the POs to obtain specific extension services.
Federations representing POs in various subsectors or types of activity will be
strengthened, so that they can serve their members both at technical level and in networking to
identify markets, financing, information, specialized training, etc. The subsector-based POs will
also represent their producers within those coordinating bodies concerned with specific
subsectors. To this end, the PSAOP will provide training for managers and officers from
subsector-based POs, tailored to their specific needs, and with a particular emphasis on the
organization and management of specific subsectors, using modules based on the diagnostic
studies carried out by each federation or group of POs.
At the same time, and at national level, CNCR will provide a forum by which the POs
can be represented in "horizontal consultation" bodies (other than the subsector-based
committees, or comitr's interprofessionnels) and in contacts with the major partners supporting
the various sectors. It will be strengthened in its capacity for generating information on the
agricultural environment, and for preparing and negotiating policy proposals, goals, programs,
and projects, by means of the following actions:
* establishing a database on the POs;
* developing communications;
* providing strategic analysis and training for PO managers;
* instituting a technical support unit.
In implementing all these actions for strengthening the POs, the POs themselves will
decide what actions to undertake and who should provide the services. Private contractors who
have the required skills will be hired for these purposes, through a process that will ensure
fairness, transparency and efficiency.



Page 117
4.2.3 Relationships between Government Agricultural and
Livestock Services and their Rural Partners
1.    Relationships among Stakeholders
Efforts to strength the POs at rural community level will be based on participatory
diagnostic studies. This exercise will involve all stakeholders in the rural community. The POs
or the CLCOP (if there is one, otherwise a similar body that is recognized as such) and ANCAR
will set up a select committee to initiate and coordinate the work of preparing and organizing the
participatory diagnostic study. The committee may receive support from the private contractor
responsible for setting up the CLCOPs. The findings of this diagnostic study will provide the
framework of reference for activities in the agricultural sector at rural community level.
At national level, the subsector-based committees will bring together all parties
concerned with a given subsector. The subsector-based POs, or groups of POs concerned with a
specific subsector, will represent both the POs and producers as a whole within these
committees. The subsector-based POs will need to be strengthened in order to improve their
ability to negotiate economic and financial terms for their branches of activity.
2.    Relationships between State Services and Local Government
Local government authorities are decentralized and autonomous bodies that work
together with the regional services of the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock on a basis of
cooperation and mutual support, without any relationship of subordination.
In this spirit, the regional directorates and regional veterinary services will act as advisers
to these local authorities and help them incorporate the agricultural-development dimension into
their overall development programs.
3.    Relationships between the State Technical Services and ANCAR
ANCAR is a corporation governed by private law and possessing its own statutes. It is
governed by the bodies stipulated for this purpose in those statutes.
Its mandate is to provide technical support to agricultural producers.  ANCAR's
management bodies are responsible for defining its programs and evaluating its results, and in
these processes they must take account of the farmers' wishes and their assessment of the
services they have received.
The Agency's relationship with the services of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock and with local authorities is one of mutual support and cooperation, with a view to
satisfying farmers' expectations to the fullest extent possible. Nevertheless, these relationships
cannot justify any interference in the management of ANCAR.



Page 118
The government agriculture and livestock services will retain those activities that are a
permanent part of a government's functions. These relate primarily to the planning, monitoring
and evaluation of agricultural development policy, and to regulating and supervising its
implementation. Other activities in which they are now engaged will in time be transferred.
These relate essentially to the provision of support for farmers and livestock producers, and, in
particular, rural extension services and support for farmers' organizations.
The transfer will be facilitated by the Government's involvement in the ANCAR Board
and in the coordination bodies that will be preparing producers to talke over supervision and
management of agricultural services, nationally and regionally.
4.    Relationships between the State Technical Services,
Farmers' Organizations, and Economic Agents
Apart from the work of the coordination committees, these relationships are mainly
concerned with exchanging information, coordinating activities, and raising consciousness
among farmers, so as to prepare the ground for technical support.
5.    Relationships between the State Technical Services and
Nongovernmental Organizations
These relationships involve:
- consultations, in order to harmonize approaches and methods for supporting producers and
their organizations;
3 cooperation - under contract or in other ways - in the conduct of development activities;
* exchanges of information on the situation of farmers, their organizations, and their needs.
6.    Relationships between the State Technical Services aind the SRDRs
The SRDRs perforrn two kinds of function, separately or jointly:
* They have a public-service mandate, under which they are responsible for delegated project
management with respect to government investments, and provide advice and assistance for
agricultural professionals (as in the case of SAED and SODAGRI).
* They have industrial and commercial functions (as in the case of SOI)EFITEX).
The first phase of the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program is to last
for three years. The agricultural development activities carried out by ANCAR, SODEFITEX,
SAED, and the professional organizations will be subject to an external evaluation at the end of
the first two crop years, with a focus on technical execution, cost-efficiency, and beneficiary
satisfaction. On the basis of this evaluation, decisions will be made on any redefinition or
reassignment of functions. The terms of reference for this evaluation will be established by



Page 119
common agreement among the bodies concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the donors
concerned with the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program and the above
institutions.
Thus, there are no presuppositions regarding the institutional configuration to be adopted
for the second phase; nevertheless, there are certain principles that must govern the distribution
of functions among the various institutions: refocusing the State on its original prerogatives, and
recognizing the need to avoid duplication or overlapping in the public funding provided for one
and the same operation in a single location.
7.    Relationship to Projects
Most projects are closely identified with the Ministries and tend to behave as institutions
in their own right, and the significant resources they have at their disposal often enables them to
impose their will on the Government. This situation makes it difficult to ensure coordination and
monitoring, and the approaches taken by these projects are often inconsistent. The Ministries use
projects as a means of intervening in the agricultural sector and harmonizing the approaches and
methods employed for each project. In fact, projects represent the greatest channel of financial
support for agricultural development, and the Ministry must in all cases exercise its powers of
guidance, monitoring, and evaluation over them.
Projects may be sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Livestock,
depending on the following criteria:
e the geographical scope of the project: national, regional, or departmental;
* the types of activity to be carried out (institutional, support for a specific subsector or for
POs, etc.);
* relationships that may be established with the services, depending on their mandates and the
types of objective pursued by the projects.
8.    Coordination Bodies under the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations
Program
At local level:
* The CLCOP, which is the PO's own coordination body;
* The ANCAR/CLCOP/Research coordination framework.
At regional level:
* The CRCOP, which is the PO's own coordination framework;
* The coordination framework consisting of the CRCOPs/ANCAR/Research/Ministries.



Page 120
At national level:
* CNCR (the National Rural People Council for Consultation and Cooperation);
* The National Monitoring and Coordination Council of the Agricultural Services and
Producer Organizations Program.
3.    Results Expected from the First Phase of the Program
The program calls for achieving the following objectives. An evaluation will be made
jointly by the government of Senegal, the World Bank, and IFAD to determine how far these
objectives have been met.
Prodv :cer Organizations
(a)   The Demand-Driven Rural Services Fund functions satisfactorily, with at least
142 local committees (CLCOPs) and 10 regional committees (CRCOPs)
functioning effectively.
(b)   CNCR covers its own operating costs (excluding its public-service functions) out
of its own resources.
Extension
(a)   The Government is a minority shareholder in ANCAR.
(b)   ANCAR has successfully established a decentralized extension service, co-
managed by arrangements with producer organizations, and covering at least 142
rural communities.
(c)   Producer organizations are the majority shareholders of ANCAR and contribute to
its operating costs (including salaries), either directly or through contractual
arrangements at local level.
(d)   An evaluation of staff performance has been carried out after a two-year probation
period, and decisions has been made on all staff members (i.e. hired on contract or
redeployed to the civil service).
(e)   All ANCAR employees are contractual.
(f)    ANCAR operates according to satisfactory policies and procedures, particularly
with regard to the financial management and accounting system, as reflected in
the audit reports.
National Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Research Fund
(a)   The Fund is a legal entity governed by private law.



Page 121
(b)   The Fund functions satisfactorily according to agreed policies and procedures, as
certified by an independent management audit.
(c)   Two other donors contribute to the Fund (for a minimum of 10%).
ISRA
(a)   ISRA is operating satisfactorily and in accordance with its various management
and organizational manuals.
(b)   Financial management and accounting systems are functioning properly, as
reflected in the annual audit reports, which are not qualified, except for minor
qualified opinions.
(c)   At least 15 ISRA projects have been approved by the National Agricultural
Research Fund. Four of these are joint ventures with ITA.
ITA
(a)   ITA is operating satisfactorily and in accordance with its various management and
organizational manuals.
(b)   Financial management and accounting systems are functioning properly, as
reflected in the annual audit reports, which are not qualified, except for minor
qualified opinions.
(c)   At least 5 ITA projects have been approved by the National Agricultural Research
Fund. Four of these are joint ventures with ISRA.
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock
(a)   An external team has evaluated the extension fuinctions carried out by ANCAR,
SODEFITEX, SAED, and the producer organizations, and decisions have been
taken on redefining and reallocating those functions.
(b)   The Ministries focus only on their policy-making, regulatory, oversight,
monitoring, and evaluation functions.



Page 122
ANNEX X
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Status of Bank Group Operations in Senegal
Operations Portfolio
As of 3 1-March-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US5 Millions                   and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                 borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig     Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 72
Active Prolects
sN-PE-2327       1989   GOVT OF SENEGAL                    SMALL RURAL OPS. II                       0.00        16.10        0.00          4.03         3.86        0.00       S           S
SN-PE-2342       1991   GOVT OF SENEGAL                    TRANSPORT SEC. SECAL                      0.00        68.73        3.73          8.30         2.60        2.37       S           S
SN-PE-2357       1993   GOVERNMENT                         HUMAN RES DEV'T II                        0.00        40 .00       0.00          8.51          .88        0.00       S           S
SN-PE-35615      1995   GOVT OF SENEGAL                    COMM NUTRITION                            0.00        18.20        0.00          7.15         8.10        6.08       S           S
SN-PE-2376       1995   REP. OF SENEGAL                    PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                        0.00        12.50        0.00          5.97         4.30        1.02       S           S
SN-PE-2346       1995   REP. OF SENEGAL                    WATER SECTOR                              0.00       100.00        0.00         60.88       57.35        50.07       HS          S
SN-PE-35621      1996   GOVT OF SENEGAL                    PILOT FEMALE LITERAC                      0.00        12.60        0.00          6.41       -2.73         0.00       S           S
SN-PE-2373       1996   GOVERNMENT                         HIGHER EDUC I                             0.00        26.50        0.00         17.57       -1.24         0.00       U           U
SN-PE-46768      1997   GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL              SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                      0.00         5.20        0.00          4.75         2.17        0.00       S           S
SN-PE-46648      1997   OHVS                               REGIONAL POWER                            0.00        10.50        0.00          1.92         5.33        0.00       S           S
SN-PE-44383      1997   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                URBAN TRANS REF TA                         0.00        6.60         0.00         5.44         2.99        0.00       HS          S
SN-PE-41567      1997   GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL              ENDEMIC DISEASES                           0.00       14.90        0.00         13.58         4.12        0.00       S           U
SN-PE-51610      1998   GOVT. OF SENEGAL                   AG.EXPORT PROMOTION                       0.00         8.00        0.00          7.62         1.16        0.00       S           S
SN-PE-51357      1998   GOV. OF SENEGAL                    ENERGY SEC. ADJ.                           0.00      100.00         0.00        75.59        -1.05        0.00       S           S
SN-PE-2369       1998   GOVT OF SENEGAL                    INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                      0.00        50.00        0.00         45.29        11.34        0.00       HS          S
SN-PE-2365       1998   GOVERNMENT                         URB DEVT 6 DECEN PRO                      0.00        75.00        0.00         71.49        17.55        0.00       S           S
SN-PE-2366       1999   GOV. OF SENEGAL                    TRANSPORT II                              0.00        90.00        0.00         90.00         0.00        0.00
Total                                                                                                0.00       654.83        1.73        440.50      116.73        59.54
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   199.01            1,240.10             1,439.11
of which has been repaid:                      .17              168.38              ld8.55
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   650.93            1,000.44             1,651.37
Amount sold                                         0.00                 5.46                5.46
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                 5.46                 5.46
Total Undisbursed                 :               440.50                  .72              441.22
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based systein  as introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU -
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performarice R.tir.9 Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week a-f the month.



Page 123
Senegal
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Part
1980                   BHS                      0.00     .46    0.00    0.00    0.00       .46    0.00    0.
1981/88                ICS                      1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.20    0.00    0.00    0.
1994/96                SOGECA                   0.00     .33    0.00    0.00    0.00       .28    0.00    0.
1996/97/98             AEF SERT                  .83     .43    0.00    0.00      .83      .43    0.00    0.
1997                   GTI Dakar               14.14    1.61    0.00    11.75    5.20      .38    0.00    6.
1998                   SEFSENTA                  .39    0.00    0.00    0.00       .39    0.00    0.00    0.
Total Portfolio:                    16.56    2.83    0.00    11.75    7.62     1.55    0.00    6.
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   GTI DAKAR INCR.          3.11     .22    0.00    0.00
1998                   TOLSA-THIES              3.00     .90    0.00    0.00
Total PendingCommitment:             6.11     1.12    0.00    0.00



Page  1Z4                                                      ANNEX X
Senegal
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program
Country at a Glance
10/1/98
Sub-
POVt RTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Senegal    Africa  income        Development dlamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        8.8       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    550        500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       4.8       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         2.6       2.7       2.1     GNP                              Goss
Labor forre (%)                                        2 6       2.6       2.3     per                           Gpmary
Most recent estimate {latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita    <                  enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban populabon (% of total population)                45        32         28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       51         52        59
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)              58         90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             22                   61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 50         44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   67         43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   69         75       91                   Senegal
Male                                                 76         82       100                  Low-income group
Female                                               62        67         81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            2.0      3.0       4.6       4.9
Gross domestic investmentjGDP                13.6     114       17.4      187                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           35.3      25.6      33 0      32.6
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    6.8      42       11.9      13.2
Gross national savings/GDP                    3.6      01       10.4      11.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -9.9    -15.1      -7.2      -6 5     Domestic        ie\
Interest payments/GDP                        0.9       33        2.1       1.8     SavingsInvestment
Total debVGDP                                20.3    107 4      80.0      74.6
Total debt service/exports                    6.0    23 3       16.7      14.8
Present value of debttGDP                                       51 3      46.3
Present value of debt/exports                                  137.6    142.1
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.0       2.0      5.7       5.2       6.2              --Senegal
GNP per capita                     -1.1      -0.4      3.7       2.6       3.4                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       0.1      4.2       8.0       8.2       8.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)1                                                                        40
Agrculture                                   29.8     22.3      19.9      18.5
Industry                                     13.6     17.5      219       22'2    20   .  .
Manufacturng                                  -     12.5       14.8     14.8
Services                                     56.5     60.2      58.2      59.3       o<-            4_4
f    92   b.....f   95   95  9T
Private consumpton                          79.1      80.4      77.3      76.6    .20
General govemment consumption                14.2     15.4      10.8      10.2               _    G0G
Imports of goods and services               42.1      32.8      38.5      38.1
197646  1987497       1996       997 , Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  -0.7      1.0       7.5       -2.2    30
Industry                                      3.4      2.9       7.3       6.7    20
Manufacturing                               4.1      1.6       4.8       3.6    10
Services                                     2.7       2.2       4.6       7.2
Private consumption                          2.5       0.3       3.8       1.0                         r  95   95   97
General govemment consumption                 3.7     -0.7       0.7       0.3                     n
Grossdomesticinvestffent                     -1.5      4.3      10.0      19.9   120
Imports of goods and services                 1.0     -0.9       3.0       3.4             - -Exprts    -       t*-Imports
Gross national product                        1.8      2.2       8.5       5.4   1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 125.
Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                       45 7
(% change)
Consumer prices                                1.1       6.1       2.7       1.8      30 -
Implicit GDP deflator                          3.8       7.6       3.7       2.5
Government finance                                                                     O
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                           92   93   94   95   96   97
Current revenue                               17.5      17.6      16.8      16.8    -15
Current budget balance                          ..    -0.2         3.7       4.5                -GDP deflator          CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ,.    -2.8        -1.5      -1.1                                                I
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (Uss millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            514      657        986       926     2,000 -
Groundnut                                      ..      65         80        50
Fish                                           ..      68         38        30      1,500 -
Manufactures                                   ..     152        250       254
Total imports (cif).    1,004                                    1,440     1,352
Food                                           ..     195        395       329 
Fuel and energy                                       111178     176       191
Capital goods                                  ..     139        186       184        0  9      2 9       4 9    6 9
Export price index (1995=100)                    .       94        100        94   I
Import price index (1995=100)                   ,.       68        105        97               a Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      137         96        97                                                1
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio ()
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                  696    1,071      1,587     1,472       
Imports of goods and services                  834    1,370      1,852     1,722
Resource balance                              -138     -300       -265      -249
Net inicome                                    -1      -6          10       -1
Net current transfers                           -1       12         58        42    I
Current account balance                       -200     -453       -337      -322    1 -10
Financing items (net)                          190      592        392       438
Changes in net reserves                         10     -139        -55      -117
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          25       21        299       395
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             229.1    434.1      528.9    538.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS              196      18         19_       _99
1976     1986       1996      1997   1F
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           410    3,225      3,719     3,671
IBRD                                          15      110         23        14                  G: 213   A: 14
IDA                                          55       353      1,194     1,187               F: 65
Total debt service                              45      268        290       237               j:1,187
IBRD                                           1       1 4        1 2        9
IDA                                            0        8         1 5       1 7
Composition of net resource flows                                                      E: 1,297
Official grants                              107      218       308       271
Official creditors                            91      398       202       202
Private creditors                            41        30       -30       -21
Foreign direct investment                    45        27         -5       79                                      292
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0                       D: 603
World Bank program
Commitments                                   36      116        42        164     A -IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                 16       78        110       61      B - IDA   D - Other murtilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0       10         17        15     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     16       68         93       46   1                                            1
Interest payments                              1       10         11        10
Net transfers                                 15       59         82        35
Development Economics                                                                                                   1011/98



MAP SECTION



______________________________________________   ______________________                            lORE'R   29999 9
<K  K~~~~<    K>oo~~~~oK'.4  16' ~~~1 5-                                                     14'                              13                                 1 2'
v`ader~                                                                                                                                                               SENEGAL
K,,  ',*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
<Ax)  <'    -, Richard    K>                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~AND
<0  K  4  Tell   l                       Lee ~~~~~~~~~~~~>< ~PRODUCER  ORGANIZATIONS
/  ~~~~~~~AINP ~~~~~~~~~PROGRAM
A  """  4<               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
N0  <   'K0  <><                                                                                      DelexeO                                                                                      16'~~~~~ui
Kit    K  "OK    044<   0<  NoemmE      /   -   0Mbeclackh6                      K       7<                 Ovine~~~~~~~~~~~~0   Sagl                                                                              "'    PRIMARY ROADS
<K                   a,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~            j           K...      *,                                                                                                                 ROUTES PRINCI PALES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUTSPRNCPAE
'0<  ">  -~~~~~~~            j*-'--"''           -       '<0"'           >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnp  'K                                           * ~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
K/A                                                     <0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ungc6rn  I  ."'"'                             / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROUTES SECONDAfRES
'.0  I(ebAraAr                    ~~~~~Dar-"""<                                                                                                                                                        0        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-'    <K0   <'K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ >  "  -                               JRee6rac           '                  00>                                    (                                             CITES ST KILEES CHOISIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTE E VILE COI)E
0<>  "Ky  '"'"                                    "'<>-'                  K>                                                            1                                     S        DEPARTMENT CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPRT~N  CPIAL
<K')  ,,< <  0                                                                            "                            0                                                                               CAPITALSO DES DEPARTEMENTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APTAESDS  EPRTMEY
an,.                   15'                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION CAPITALS
00 <"*< ..KOO>7'  P,NPacn&y   c'    '04                         ~~~~~Velrar0                                                                       aacCAPITALES DES REGIONS
'1    '-"  e~~~~~a~~ar ~~'  - dirdi -  0ToR  ~~~~~~~~-<            Fete Rawe,P   in,'          /                                                                            *        NATIONAL CAPITALS~~NAIONA CAPTAL
No ~~  T4eIte'        I'  p j/>   0h        aubaj              Daseana~G-             (                                              $N                                      , rCAPITALES NATIONALS
S&b~~~ a inane  Ban4b  r""   M~~~~~~~pI06  /"t  oh, MRa                     K                 /   ~~~~~~~                                  ~- -'-'                          DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIESBOUNARIE
bkkAWwr4~~~~~~~~~~:                  .'<                                                                                          p    >"x0<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  LIMITES DES OSPARTEMENTS~~~~~~~~~LIITS  ESDEAREMNr
<' 7 <  <  co'bpj  /  Y                       I                                                          _                        in   Ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ayee   """'~~~~~~0     --.--..-.-   REGION BOUNDARIES~~REGON  OILNDAI~
00  >'>  Daseas                                    '>0                               >    K"                                  Kidira '                         ,.,,  -.                          LIMITES DES RSGIONS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M)ES  ESREGON
K   'oyK>   '  >04                /                                           OoP                       Tb;'~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                     -~~                         '\                 ----------INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
<    >KtN~~t2t4KK4i0t4itMba  'I/\  Oo$gwr6a         0Nd ebAray'               KSO/eOOtI                acer0 "f                                                                                                         LIMMTES INTESNATIONALES
'K  K">KKOK<0K  /    PaW  ~~~~~~~~~~   Aleck                                                                                         >4N-6
7'    <0'KK{K   ~~~~  4                6  LA ~~~~ K Lauin-Eacele~~~~~                                                   A  C     0 UNDac     A       /D     )F
'<'<0'01k    /                                              -iJ             teytA C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .pr  bPpHf 6  ddBkG-,-
-. Iu                             K                                                 "<D0A                                                                                      13 -
,<Oo'4   K'/"K-'O O      -   I  Rip  ~ *"".~e'  N                M L   Tapllacecnda            TIA            '-  0   U  N  D   A 5aia8       C                                            9                             10
K  K K;~~~'.~y..K 0 K >.o'.K >~~~~~<                /    7          ,'~ o lda    "        ~    '                                                                                                                                   IL M  T R
0>   <  '..0,..&4o2t7o..  K  GcT~'<C0,                       .,~,   "''>  5N0)K<,           m6~  5>0?                      <'-      ,,-       >'-.           >'.        ')                               Tie np waspoadced 0' h crapSNAinNUnL oPRIKeAaLIESamA
~AN  <A'1 E                                          C>60                          /         K,    ancn         .4   J'x                                              The bcmdanis, aalre,denninaiiame adanycihaninfinearonMhke
K    K,                                                                                                                                                                    <"Por(ear'----'---"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,NIE
I                                                                           NafadIi     3          >4Ac00?~~G U   IN    A                      URIN
Am~~~~~~~FS
~~' 0  0<  ><    KTcAaaacGUINEA   BISSAU             7.L.'/                                        0'                 '                                                                           MALI  NIGER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c---,/ENl
14  j pa1'                                                                                                                       T      ,1901HANA\9 
APRIL pen~



