Report No. PIC1860
Project Name                   Senegal-Agricultural Services Project (@)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     SNPA2367
Borrower                       Government of Senegal
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture
Senegalese Institute of Research (ISRA)
B.P. 3120
Dakar, Senegal
Contact: Dr. Habib Lee
Director General
Tel: (221) 32.24.22
Fax: (221) 32.24.27
Mr. Mamadou Sonko
Programme National de Vulgarisation
Agricole (PNVA)
B.P. 10428
Dakar, Senegal
Tel: (221) 24.71.79; 24.41.31
Fax: (221) .28.16
Date PID Preparation           March 27, 1995
Project Appraisal Date         October 1, 1995
Projected Board Date           June 30, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.   Senegal has a population of 7.8 million with a growth rate of 2.9
percent per year. At independence in 1960, Senegal inherited a
relatively well-developed economy. Performance was satisfactory until
1966 when Senegal benefited from guaranteed prices for its main
agricultural export crops but deteriorated significantly between 1967
and 1974 when this advantage was lost. Recently, inflation remained
below what was targeted and there are indications of an economic
recovery in several sectors where the devaluation had a favorable
impact.
2.   Annual fluctuations and rainfall are considerable and agriculture
is subject to recurrent periods of severe droughts. Most of Senegal+s
population (60 percent) derive income from agriculture which contributes
only about 20 percent of the GDP. Per capita income in 1993 amounted to
US$707. The Agricultural Services Project became effective on July 6,
1990 and aimed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the public
institutions responsible for extension and research. This operation is
part of the Bank+s +Agricultural Services Initiative+ for Sub-Saharan
countries that seek to strengthen the core public sector institutions
necessary for technology development and transfer in agriculture.
Project Objectives



3.   The project is the second phase of an agricultural services
program. Its objectives are: (a) to expand and increase the rate of
development and adoption of agricultural technology and (b) to
stimulate the development of new technical extension recommendations
that will enable farmers, especially smallholders, to increase their
productivity and income. At the same time, this second operation would
combine the strengthening of several core public functions in support of
agricultural development into one subsectoral investment program. The
program would be prepared primarily by a Senegalese task force. It
would be implemented within the institutional framework of the Ministry
of Agriculture and ISRA without separate project units, and the use of
long-term expatriate technical assistance would be kept to a minimum.
A flexible design would allow for annual reviews and adjustments, and
other donors would be associated as much as possible.
Project Description
4.   The project would include five components: (i) extension; (ii)
research; (iii) animal health; (iv) women in development; and (v)
functional literacy training.    On the extension aspect, the project
would fortify managerial gains made under the first project, increase
direct contact with farmers with special emphasis on women farmers,
improve the relevance of extension information and technologies, upgrade
the skills of staff and farmers, introduce innovations into the
extension system on a pilot basis, and strengthen monitoring through
+client consultation techniques+.    On the research side, the project
will regionalize research, devise means to allow farmers to participate
directly in on-farm research, and strengthen the collaboration between
research, extension, and farmers. On animal health, a clearer
definition of the responsibilities between the public and private
sectors in the provision of animal health services would be needed.
With regards to women in development, the project would design measures
to ensure that women farmers have equal access to public agricultural
services and that their specific concerns are taken into account. The
functional literacy training will be determined based on the results of
a review of the ongoing functional literacy component under the
Agricultural Services Project.
Project Costs and Financing
5.   Project costs are estimated at US$45.0 million, of which IDA will
finance US$40.5 million. Government contribution is expected to be
about 10 percent. Possibility of cofinancing will be discussed.
Project Implementation
6.   The proposed operation will emphasize maximum involvement of the
major stakeholders in designing improvements over the first phase.
Regarding the extension component, the Ministry of Agriculture, together
with the Ministry of Finance and Bank support, will carry out an
operational evaluation of the results of the first phase (1990-1994),
which are expected by April 1995. In addition, the Ministry of
Agriculture will carry out an adoption and diffusion study and attempt
to quantify the results of the first phase. With respect to the
research component, the recently carried out mid-term review will define
- 2-



the further preparation requirements. For the animal health and women
in development components, a preparation mission is expected to take
place in April 1995. Within the Bank, a multi-disciplinary team will
work on this operation. The documentation for this operation would be
similar to the one currently developed for the Agricultural Services
Program in Guinea.
Project Sustainability
7.   The Bank is committed to support the agricultural services
initiative in Sub-saharan Africa for an initial period of fifteen years.
The proposed funding for five years will be the second tranche in
support of this commitment. To improve chances of long-term
sustainability and support from the Government, the incremental annual
cost of extension services will be limited to the equivalent of less
than US$10 per farm family per annum and the investments in research and
animal health would be tailored to the country±s counterpart funding
capacity. Also, sustainability would be enhanced by the fact that there
will be strong ownership because the project will be designed by
Senegalese and would use existing institutional channels for
implementation.
Poverty Category
8.   The Program of Targeted Interventions.   The project will reduce
food insecurity in rural areas and will increase rural incomes among
small farmers, who are among the poorest of the rural population.
Environmental Aspects
9.   Under the first phase of the Agricultural Services Program,
technical recommendations included environmental protection measures,
such as the adoption of soil protection recommendations on easily eroded
lands and the integration of livestock husbandry and fertility
maintenance through composting. Training of field staff already
included environmental conservation, which will be intensified as the
program expands. An effective agricultural extension service could be
one of the key elements of a national environmental monitoring system,
if key linkages are established. The project has not yet received an
environmental category rating.
Program Objective Categories
10. The program will emphasize household food security and poverty
reduction among poor farmers, man of whom are female, through increased
productivity and diversification of farming activities.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
- 3-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 4 -



