Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFTCLAL USIE ONLY
Repot No. 13060
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2879-IND)
MAY 17, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp 1,630
Rp 1,000 = US$0.48
(As of December 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
Government                                  -      April 1 - March 31
KONEBA                                      -      January 1 - December 31
PUSRI                                       -      January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKOREN        -    National Energy Coordination Board
BAPPENAS    -    National Development Planning Agency
KONEBA         -    PT Konservasi Energi Abadi (Energy Conservation Center)
mm BTU         -    million BTU
MME            -    Ministry of Mines and Energy
PUSRI          -    PT Pupuk Sriwijaya
REPELITA       -    Five-Year Development Plan
TA             -    Technical Assistance
TCF            -    Trillion cubic feet
toe            -    ton of oil equivalent
tpd            -    ton per day
tpy            -    ton per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD DANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Industrial
Enerev Conservation Project - (Loan 2879-ND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Industrial Energy Conservation Project
(Loan 2879-IND) prepared jointly by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by
the Borrowers.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. The project consisted of two components the first of which
was to assist the Government of Indonesia in establishing the institutional framework and policies for
planning, promoting, implementing, coordinating and monitoring energy conservation activities. Although
the Energy Conservation Center (Koneba), established as a commercial entity, got off to a good start and
reached profitability in its third year of operation, it could not maintain the tempo of activity and was
eventually converted into a publicly owned company under the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The PCR
relates this unsuccessful outcome mainly to the lingering distortions in energy pricing and the overly
optimistic expectations of demand for the services of this center. This unsatisfactory progress ultimately
eroded the Government's commitment to pursue the approach to energy conservation underlying the
project.
The second subcomponent (a demonstration project) was designed to effect modifications to three
existing ammonia plants operated by PUSRI in order to increase their energy efficiency by at least 10 per
cent and to realize a 20 per cent increase in producdon capacity. These modifications have not, as yet,
resulted either in the anticipated energy savings or the capacity increase because of the malfunctioning of
feed gas waste heat exchangers in all three plants. In view of PUSRI's track record and its proven
technical capability, the PCR expects that this problem will be rectified once the heat exchangers are
replaced.
Given the performance of Koneba and the shortfall in achieving the objectives of the key institudon
building component, the outcome of this project is rated as unsatisfactory. The project has had modest
institutional development impact and its sustainability is, under the present circumstances, uncertain.
Robert Picciotto
by H.E. Kopp
Attachment
This documentha a reatricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2879-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summnary  ...........................................                            i v
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                        .........       1
1.  Project Identity          ..........................................                    1
2.  Project Background .......................................                              1
3.  Project Objectives and Description  .............................                       2
KONEBA Component  .......               ....................... .                           2
4. Project Design and Organization..                                                        2
5. Component Implementation..                                                               3
6. Component Results..                                                                      5
7. Component Sustainability..                                                               6
8. Bank Performance..                                                                      7
9. Borrower Performance..                                                                   7
10.  Project Component Relationship  .............................. .                       8
11.  Consulting Services .......................................                            8
PUSRI Component .......             ......................... .                             8
12.  Project Design and Organization .............................. .                       8
13.  Component Implementation ..................................                            9
14.  Component Results ......       ..............           ...................           10
15.  Component Sustainability  ................................. .                         11
16. Bank Performance ....... .................                                             11
17.  Borrower Performance ......       .............           ..................          12
18.  Project Relationship ......    ..............           ...................           12
19.  Consulting Services ......      ..............          ...................           12
20.  Project Documentation and Data ..............         ..       ...............        12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                         .....      13
1.   Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lesson Learned        ..13
2.   Evaluation of Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned    .         .14
3.   Overall Assessment of the Project Performance        ..16
4. Overview of the Pusri Component                          ..                             22
5.  Borrower's Performance During the Project          ..23
6.   Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower during the Period .........            24
7. Financial Aspects                ..24
8.   Disbursement Schedule ........                   ........                             27
9. Project Cost and Financing              ..28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



10.   Project Cost: Budget Estimate   ........  .                            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  29
11.   Project Financial Plan    .........  .                        .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   .  30
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .33
2.      Project Timetable   ........................................                                                                      33
3.      Loan/Credit Disbursements   ..................................                                                                   34
4.      Project Implementation  .....................................                                                                     35
5.      Project Cost and  Financing   ..................................                                                                  36
6.      Project Results             ........................................                                                              37
7.      Status of Covenants  .......................................                                                                     40
8.      Use of Bank  Resources  .....................................                                                                    41
ANNEXES
1.     Domestic and  Economic Energy  Prices, 1987/1993    ...................                                                           42
2.      KONEBA  Organization  Chart   ................................                                                                   43
3.      KONEBA  Overview  of Activities, 1988-1993  .......................                                                              44
4.      KONEBA  Financial Statements ................................                                                                     46
5.      Overview  of Bank-financed  Consulting  Assignments  ...................                                                          49
6.      PUSRI Project Organization Chart ..............................                                                                   50
7.      PUSRI Implementation  Schedule  ...............................                                                                   51
8.      PUSRI Financial Statements    .................................                                                                   52



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2879-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Energy Conservation Project
in Indonesia, for which Loan 2879-IND in the amount of US$ 21 million was approved on
October 13, 1987. It became effective on February 5, 1988 and was closed on June 30,
1 993 in accordance with the original time schedule. The loan was disbursed to the extent
of US$ 18.6 million. The last disbursement was made on September 23, 1993. US$ 2.1
million (from the KONEBA component) was canceled on March 1, 1993, and US$ 262,264
(from the PUSRI component) was canceled on September 23, 1993.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and l1l) was prepared by the EA31E Division
of the East Asia and Pacific Department 3, based substantially on information provided by
the Borrower and the two beneficiary companies. The Bank received Part II from the two
beneficiary companies which are included in the PCR.
Preparation of the PCR was started in September 1993 and involved a project completion
mission to Indonesia in November 1993. The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report,
the Loan and Project Agreements, Supervision Reports, Mission Aide-Memoires, Part II
prepared by the two beneficiary companies, and discussions during the project completion
mission.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2879-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The objectives of the project were: (i) to assist the Government of Indonesia in
establishing the institutional framework and policies for planning, promoting, implementing
and monitoring energy conservation activities; and (ii) in parallel, to demonstrate the
benefits of energy conservation activities in industry through the implementation of specific
energy efficiency investments in P.T. PUSRI, the largest nitrogenous fertilizer producer in
Indonesia. The project included the following two components: (i) establishment of a
national energy conservation center to assist the Government in preparing a comprehensive
national energy conservation program for the industrial sector, carry out promotional
campaigns, and provide training in energy conservation matters; and (ii) upgrading of three
ammonia plants of PUSRI to increase their energy efficiency by 10 percent and raise their
production capacity by 20 percent. At appraisal, the estimated project cost was US$36.1
million to be financed from a World Bank loan of US$21.0 million (84 percent of foreign
costs) and contributions from the project beneficiaries (US$15.1 million).
Implementation Experience
The Energy Conservation Center was established as a commercial company -- P.T.
KONEBA -- a subsidiary of P.T. PUSRI and four other public sector fertilizer companies.
The project provided technical assistance for KONEBA's start-up and initial operations.
KONEBA developed a national energy demand management program as its first major
initiative. However, the Government made little use of it. Lack of success in establishing
an effective advisory role for the Government combined with pressure to generate revenues
prompted KONEBA to shift gear and focus on its commercial activities. After one year of
operation, KONEBA effectively ceased to function as a national energy conservation center
providing assistance to the Government in promoting energy conservations, while trying to
become a commercial consultant firm for energy audits and feasibility studies with
industrial enterprises. Notwithstanding this major reorientation from the original project
concept, KONEBA was not able to generate sufficient commercial revenues to become
financially self-supporting. As its financial condition worsened, the Government turned
KONEBA  into a wholly state-owned entity in January 1993.  In view  of these
developments, the Bank decided that it could not continue supporting KONEBA and, in
agreement with the government, canceled the remainder of the Bank loan allocation for the
component in March 1993.



- ii -
The PUSRI project components suffered major implementation slippages ranging
from  13 to 36 months) due to: (i)  PUSRI's delay in selecting the main engineering
consultant firm; (ii) the lack of familiarity of the consultant with the original process and
engineering designs of the PUSRI plants; (iii) delays in finalizing detailed engineering due to
differences in technical drawings and actual conditions in the field, and insufficient
engineering personnel dedicated by PUSRI; (iv) need to organize changes in the three plants
during overlapping time periods rather than proceeding with the components in the
projected sequential phasing, which added to the overloading of project management; (v)
need to wait for suitable plant maintenance turn-around times to undertake plant
modification works; and (vi) late delivery of some equipment. In addition, after start-up of
the plants, PUSRI experienced unforeseen problems with existing heat exchangers which
failed to operate under temperature conditions of higher capacity utilization. Following
replacement of this equipment, the final test runs in the three plants are scheduled for the
second half of 1994 and beginning of 1995. The PUSRI component had a 44 percent cost
overrun as a result of: (a) an underestimate of the quantity and price of equipment and bulk
materials; (b) addition of unforeseen items as a result of several field changes during
implementation; (c) increases in salaries and administration costs, interest during
construction, and commitment fees caused by implementation delays; and (d) addition of
the cost of a catalyst change which had not been foreseen at appraisal.
Results
The energy conservation component of the loan has not achieved its main objective
-- to make KONEBA the spearhead of an encompassing drive for energy conservation in
Indonesia. Likewise, it has not realized the secondary objective -- to make KONEBA a
financially self-supporting service company in the field of energy conservation. KONEBA's
main achievements have been in creating awareness among Indonesian industrial
enterprises of the potential benefits of energy conservation and suitable ways to go about
achieving them. The project also contributed to transfer know-how in conducting energy
audits in Indonesia.  Further, several of the initial suggestions and studies prepared by
KONEBA for the design of a national energy demand management program are being used
by Government in its public promotion campaign, and for its renewed initiatives to develop
a national energy conservation program following a Presidential decree in 1991. Most
importantly, yet unrelated to the project, the Government has been raising prices of
petroleum products and electricity tariffs to provide greater incentives for conservation.
The energy efficiency investment component of the loan is expected to reach
project targets. While realized energy savings so far of 4.7 - 5.9 percent in the three plants
fall short of the 10% savings target, this target should be met fully following replacement
of the failed heat exchangers in 1994-95, and taking into account PUSRI's demonstrated
ability to run its plants at high capacities. Also, the energy efficiency improvements in the
PUSRI plants are having a demonstration effect on other energy intensive industries in
Indonesia; other fertilizer companies are already preparing similar plant improvements. The
updated financial and economic rates of return for the PUSRI component of 23.4 percent
and 24.6 percent respectively, while satisfactory, are considerably lower than the appraisal
estimates of 41 percent and 50 percent, respectively.  This shortfall is due to a



- iii -
combination of higher than expected project costs and a longer implementation period, as
well as downward revisions in price assumptions for sale of surplus ammonia and savings
of natural gas compared to appraisal.
Sustainability
KONEBA has not developed into a financially viable institution nor has it been able
to shape effectively Government energy conservation policies and to promote best
industrial conservation policies on a significant scale. Further, the recent decision by the
Government to turn KONEBA into a monopoly provider of energy conservation services for
public enterprises, Bank opposing advice not withstanding, may delay energy conservation
in public enterprises and actually slow the development of private service providers. At
any rate, the Government has abandoned its original intent to develop KONEBA into a
national center for energy conservation and decided to scale back KONEBA's mandate to
act as a priviledged consultant to public enterprises for energy efficiency matters.  In
contrast, the PUSRI component is expected to achieve sustainable benefits. The projected
energy savings and capacity optimization targets of the PUSRI component in all likelihood
will be realized after replacement of failed equipment. Sustaining these benefits will require
that the plants continue to be operated at the efficient levels that PUSRI has been able to
achieve in the past, including continuation of PUSRI's efficient maintenance program, and
that gas supply to PUSRI will be maintained at required levels.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The failure of the project to achieve expected results is mainly the consequence of
flaws in design (KONEBA) and underestimation of implementation capability (PUSRI).
Specifically, the shortcomings of the energy conservation component can be attributed to:
(i) a deficiency in the strategic approach to improving energy efficiency.  The
results of the project confirmed that distortions in the prices that impact on the
use of energy should have been corrected as a first order priority. Otherwise,
pro-active Government measures to compensate for distortions will either fall
short or be costly;
(ii) an oversight in assuming financial viability without prior market analysis.
Developments under the project have shown that it is impossible in practice to
sell services at cost if the customer has no financial incentive to use them,
which obviously applies to energy conservation if energy prices are low and
producers are not under competitive pressure;
(iii) unwarranted optimism in expecting that an essentially Government originated,
staffed and overseen institution could develop needed aggressive marketing and
service development skills.  While PUSRI and the other public fertilizer
companies provided some initial token contribution, none of the envisaged
private sector clients took a stake in KONEBA;



- iv -
(iv) a conflict in the functions of  a nascent institution.  The dual purpose of
operating as a commercial entity with a profit objective and acting as an advisor
to the Government in a public service capacity created confusion among
KONEBA's management, slowed its drive to survive in the market and
ultimately made it unacceptable as a partner to the Government; and
(v) an apparent lack of Government commitment to pursue energy conservation
vigorously, and possibly even doubt that KONEBA would be in a position to
make an effective contribution.  While energy conservation was the key
element of the loan from the Bank's point of view, it seems to have been a
mere adjunct to the priority PUSRI investment component from the Indonesian
vantage point.
As a corollary to these findings, the conclusion for energy conservation support in
future Bank operations can be summarized as follows:
(i) analyze, at design stage, all factors that impact on the effective demand for
energy conservation services and the awareness of benefits of energy
conservation by enterprises, including: competition in product markets;
appropriate levels of energy prices; access to information on energy saving
possibilities; access to necessary technical assistance; and barriers to
technology transfer.  Such analysis, would ascertain whether the incentive
regime for energy conservation is sufficient to provide a basis for establishing
support services;
(ii) analyze, at design stage, the rationale for Government involvement in setting up
new support institutions. In case of commercially oriented support services,
involve as much as possible private service providers rather than public sector
agencies.  In case of non-commercial activities first consideration should be
given to strengthening existing institutions rather than establishing new ones.
In case of public institutions, ensure appropriate oversight arrangements, level,
and location, to ensure high level Government support, sufficient credibility,
ability to work across economic sectors and government institutions, and
sufficient quality of staff.
Shortfalls in achieving the objectives of the PUSRI energy efficiency improvement
component are the consequence of:
(i) underestimation of the difficulties involved in modifying the three PUSRI plants
at the same time. PUSRI's project management was overtaxed in implementing
such a complicated project within the envisaged timeframe;
(ii) development of a consultant unfamiliar with the original plant design as the
main engineer. Contracting the original process engineering firm most likely
would have allowed a shorter implementation period;



(iii) underestimation of project costs.  Given that project design was only at a
preliminary stage at appraisal, physical contingencies of at least 20%, instead
of the actual 10%, should have been applied.
While more intensive Bank supervision would not have made much of a difference in
improving the performance of the energy conservation component, it most likely would
have made a difference in the case of the investment component. Closer supervision,
particularly in the early stages of project implementation, could have helped to identify
causes of delays and promoted action plans for problem resolution. While late, the Bank
did realize that the energy conservation component could not be successful and therefore
advised the Government in mid-1992 to withold further disbursement requests. After
repeated unsuccessful attempts from the management of KONEBA to convince the Bank
that it could deliver the goods, the Government decided, against the advice of the Bank, to
convert KONEBA into a public entity within the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Realizing
that KONEBA was not an effective instrument to achieve energy efficiency, the Bank
shifted its attention, in the broader policy dialogue with the Government, on increases in
energy prices, which had not been considered under the loan. The Bank contributed
through pertinent analysis to the Government's decision to raise petroleum product prices
to or above economic efficiency levels (except kerosene and natural gas) and through
power lending operations to its decision to bring electricity rates in line with long run
marginal costs.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2879-IND)
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:           Industrial Energy Conservation Project
Loan Number:            2879-IND
Loan Amount:           US$21 million
RVP Unit:               East Asia and Pacific
Country:                Indonesia
Borrower:              Government of Indonesia
Date of Effectiveness:    February 05, 1988
Type of lending:        SIL
2.    Project Background
2.01     The decline in foreign exchange earnings from oil in the early 1 980s and the
related weakening of Indonesia's resource position had accentuated the need to give
increased emphasis to diversification of domestic energy supplies and to energy
conservation. Industry, the largest single energy consuming sector in Indonesia, accounted
for about 35 percent of total energy consumption in the mid-1 980s. It was estimated that
the sector could realize energy savings in the order of 20-25 percent by better operating
practices and modest plant investments. A UNDP/World Bank energy assessment report in
1981 had already recommended to formulate energy pricing policies and develop programs
and technologies to promote more efficient energy use and stimulate interfuel substitution.
To help achieve these objectives, the Government gradually increased the domestic price of
petroleum fuels. However, at the time of appraisal, only gasoline and fuel oil among the
petroleum products were at or above their opportunity costs (see Annex 1). Electricity
prices were below long-run marginal cost, and natural gas also was sold to domestic
customers below economic cost.
2.02     The National Energy Coordinating Board (BAKOREN), chaired by the Minister of
Mines and Energy, had been created in 1 980 to provide overall policy guidance for energy
resource development and utilization. The Ministry of Mining and Energy (MME), through
its Sub-Directorate for Energy Conservation, was to provide energy conservation
information to the public, undertake promotional campaigns, and recommend energy



-2-
conservation measures. However, the sub-directorate had developed only limited activities
and had insufficient institutional stature to push effective energy conservation initiatives.
In addition, its staff had not been sufficiently trained. In order to overcome these
limitations and provide an institutional focus for energy conservation activities, the
Government in consultation with the World Bank proposed in 1 985 to establish an Energy
Conservation Center as a special government agency under a board of advisors in the
Directorate General of Electricity and New Energy Development, MME. After further
consideration, the Government decided to establish the center as a commercial company in
the form of a subsidiary of PT Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI) and four other public sector
fertilizer companies.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01      The objectives of the project were:
(i) to assist the Government of Indonesia in establishing the institutional
framework and policies for planning, promoting, implementing, coordinating and
monitoring energy conservation activities; and
(ii) to demonstrate the benefits of energy conservation activities in industry through
specific energy efficiency investments in PUSRI, the largest nitrogenous
fertilizer producer in Indonesia.
3.02      The project consisted of two components to achieve these objectives. The first
component was the creation of a national energy conservation center, P.T. Konservasi
Energi Abadi (KONEBA), which would assist the Government to prepare a comprehensive
national energy conservation program for the industrial sector, carry out promotional
campaigns, and provide training in energy conservation matters. The second component
consisted of the modification and upgrading of three ammonia plants of PUSRI. The
modifications aimed to increase energy efficiency of the plants by 10 percent and raise
their production capacity by 20 percent. The two project components are discussed and
evaluated separately in the following sections.
KONEBA Component
4.    Project design and organization
4.01      KONEBA was expected to have the following functions both in the private and
public sectors with emphasis on the industrial sector:
(a) preparation of a comprehensive energy conservation program for the industrial
sector and setting of energy-related norms for industrial energy use;
(b) advice to the Government on policy and legislation, including incentive
schemes, for energy conservation;



-3-
(c) development of a national energy survey, establishment of a national energy
data base, and preparation of energy surveys and manuals of selected industrial
subsectors;
(d) dissemination of information and carrying out of a comprehensive promotional
awareness campaign on energy conservation;
(e) coordination of training and applied research related to energy conservation; and
(f) coordination of technical assistance to help energy-intensive enterprises identify
and implement energy conservation measures, and conduct energy audits where
necessary.
4.02      KONEBA was established in January 1987, before loan negotiations, as the
focal entity for energy conservation activities in Indonesia operating as an autonomous,
commercial entity jointly owned by five Indonesian fertilizer companies. As mentioned
above, the original intention of the Government and the Bank had been to create a special
non-commercial government agency. The institutional design was discussed with the
Government during the Bank appraisal and the post-appraisal missions in 1985-86. Shortly
after the latter mission, the Government, in agreement with the Bank, decided that
KONEBA should become a commercial subsidiary enterprise of the five fertilizer companies.
This approach was chosen to follow the Government's policy to restrict the establishment
of new government agencies that would not operate on a basis of financial self-sufficiency.
4.03      KONEBA's organisation evolved in the years following its establishment.
Initially, it had been envisaged that the center would operate under a board of advisors
guided by the National Energy Coordinating Board (BAKOREN). However, with the
establishment as a commercial subsidiary company, it operated under a shareholders
meeting comprising the five fertilizer companies. The Board of Commissioners, in turn,
was chaired by the Director General, Electricity and New Energy Development, of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy, who also was expected to provide guidance and support for
KONEBA's national energy conservation activities. As it turned out, KONEBA became
subordinate to the need to develop its commercial rather than national activities. This
reduced the role of the DG in the management of KONEBA's activities. KONEBA's
organization chart is shown in Annex 2.
5.    Component Implementation
5.01     The project included consultant assistance to KONEBA, to provide overall
guidance in KONEBA's formative years, and help it implement its priority activities,
including: (i) a national industrial energy conservation program; (ii) a national energy survey
and energy data base; (iii) publications, information dissemination, and promotional
campaign; (iv) energy audits and feasibility studies in priority industries; (v) subsector
energy manuals; (vi) staff recruitment and training; and (vii) procurement of
instrumentation. Already in September 1987 (prior to Bank loan approval), KONEBA had
contracted an experienced US based consultant firm (Hagler, Bailly and Company) as its
main consultant to assist it with these tasks. The services of the consultant company
subsequently were financed under the Bank loan over a two-year period (until end-1 989).
KONEBA relied on selected individual consultants for operational support beyond 1989.



4-
5.02      KONEBA and its consultants generated considerable outputs. In its first year,
KONEBA assisted by the consultants drafted a comprehensive report for a national energy
demand management program, which was submitted to the Government in June 1 989.
The report included recommendations for: (i) the outline of a national program; (ii) pricing of
energy resources as a tool for energy demand management; (iii) incentives and regulations
required to support a national program; (iv) training programs for plant personnel; (v)
dissemination of information on improved operations and maintenance in industry and
transport; (vi) information to increase public awareness and public education; and (vii)
investment estimates and a plan for funding. It was proposed that financing of the
program be provided from modest increases in taxes on gasoline, diesel oil and electricity.
However, the Government did not act upon these proposals.
5.03      KONEBA also made an important effort in providing information and creating
awareness about the needs for and benefits of energy conservation. In total, it published
over 1 20 papers on these subjects. In addition, it organized 16 training courses and
workshops, gave seven major presentations, was represented at seven exhibitions, and
published periodic newsletters, energy tips, and leaflets. These were mainly non-
commercial activities which did not generate revenues.
5.04      After its initial unsuccessful work on a national energy demand management
program, KONEBA redeployed its resources to concentrate on offering consulting services
to industrial enterprises. During 1988-93, some 56 preliminary energy surveys were made,
at no cost to the enterprises, which led to contracts with 1 3 enterprises for detailed
energy audits, and with 1 2 enterprises for, feasibility studies for energy efficiency
improvements.  With several enterprises (especially the shareholding fertilizer companies)
multiple contracts were concluded so that a total of 45 commercial projects were
implemented during this period. Most of KONEBA's commercial work was done in the
years 1 988-89, the contract period with the main consultants. From 1 990, activities
declined and only few contracts for energy audits or feasibility studies were completed.
To a large extent this decline also reflects KONEBA's difficulties in attracting high caliber
staff. Most of KONEBA's personnel was quite inexperienced, while its commercial tasks
(particularly energy audits and feasibility studies) required highly experienced engineers.
The effect of this knowledge gap was felt clearly after the main consultant company had
left (end-1989).  Details on KONEBA activities during 1988-93 are shown in Annex 3.
5.05      In line with its inability to attract revenue generating activity, KONEBA's
financial performance stayed far below original expectations. During appraisal, KONEBA
had been projected to generate sufficient revenues from provision of energy conservation
services (energy audits, technical information and consultancy, training), to realize profits
and positive cash flows from the third year of operations. In fact, KONEBA only realized a
small profit and positive cash flow in 1 990; thereafter its performance deteriorated again.
In 1 992, KONEBA's accumulated losses had reached Rp 3.3 billion. As a result of its poor
financial performance, KONEBA was not able to maintain its current ratio and long-term
debt/equity ratio within the limits agreed with the Bank. Annex 4 provides details on the
financial statements of KONEBA.) In view of KONEBA's deteriorating financial situation
and resistance of the Bank to continue funding its activities, the Government converted
KONEBA in January 1993 into a Government entity, transferred it to the MME and
assumed its liabilities.



5.06      Total project costs for the KONEBA component have been lower than estimated
at appraisal. Total project cost at appraisal had been put at US$8.1 million, of which
US$5.5 million in foreign exchange. Actual project costs now are estimated at US$5.4
million equivalent, of which US$2.4 million in foreign exchange. Details are provided in
Part IlIl (section 5). To a large extent, the lower foreign exchange costs are on account of
the more limited activities of foreign consultants in energy auditing than had been
envisaged at appraisal. Higher local costs in turn are due to higher KONEBA staffing levels
and greater involvement of local staff in energy audits and studies.
5.07      All foreign exchange expenditures were financed by the Bank loan. As a result
of lower than expected technical assistance for KONEBA, only US$2.4 million of the
US$4.5 Bank loan allocation for KONEBA has been committed. The remaining US$2.1
million was canceled on March 1, 1993, in agreement with Government, in view of
KONEBA's limited effectiveness, deteriorating financial position and limited prospects. A
comparison of Bank loan disbursements at appraisal and actual is shown in Part IlIl (section
3). All consultants and instruments funded by the Bank loan were procured in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines.
6.    Component Results
6.01      The KONEBA component has not achieved its main objective -- to become the
institutional center for energy conservation in Indonesia. Also the secondary objective -- to
develop KONEBA into a financially self-supporting service company in the field of energy
conservation -- has not been realized. KONEBA's main contributions may have been to
increase the awareness among Indonesian industrial enterprises of the potential for energy
conservation. The project also made progress in the transfer of know-how to conduct
energy audits in Indonesia. Also, during the PCR mission it was found that several of the
initial suggestions and studies prepared by KONEBA for the design of a national energy
demand management program were taken over by the Sub-Directorate for Energy
Conservation, MME. The Sub-Directorate published a series of flyers, brochures and
manuals on energy conservation for which KONEBA earlier had made several drafts. The
initial studies also have been used as an input for the more recent Government initiatives
on energy conservation (see para 6.03).
6.02      KONEBA's limited results can largely be attributed to a number of important
flaws in its original design:
(i) a deficiency in the strategic approach to improving energy efficiency.  The
results of the project confirmed that distortions in the prices that impact on the
use of energy should have been corrected as a first order priority. Otherwise,
pro-active Government measures to compensate for distortions will either fall
short or be costly;
(ii) an oversight in assuming financial viability without prior market analysis.
Developments under the project have shown that it is impossible in practice to
sell services at cost if the customer has no financial incentive to use them,
which obviously applies to energy conservation if energy prices are low and
producers are not under competitive pressure;



(iii) unwarranted optimism in expecting that an essentially Government originated,
staffed and overseen institution could develop needed aggressive marketing and
service development skills.  While PUSRI and the other public fertilizer
companies provided some initial token contribution, none of the envisaged
private sector clients took a stake in KONEBA;
(iv) a conflict in the functions of  a nascent institution.  The dual purpose of
operating as a commercial entity with a profit objective and acting as an advisor
to the Government in a public service capacity created confusion among
KONEBA's management, slowed its drive to survive in the market and
ultimately made it unacceptable as a partner to the Government; and
(v) an apparent lack of Government commitment to pursue energy conservation
vigorously, and possibly even doubt that KONEBA would be in a position to
make an effective contribution.  While energy conservation was the key
element of the loan from the Bank's point of view, it seems to have been a
mere adjunct to the priority PUSRI investment component from the Indonesian
vantage point.
6.03      More recently, the Government has shown new interest in developing a national
energy conservation program, initiated by Presidential Decree No. 43 in September 1 991,
and followed up by a letter of the Minister of Mines and Energy in April 1993 with more
details on related implementation responsibilities of various Ministries. The Ministry of
Mines and Energy would coordinate the program, carry out national energy conservation
campaigns, provide energy conservation information, carry out training on energy
conservation technologies and energy audits, and would increase energy conservation
efforts in industries and mining through regulations, information and standardization. These
tasks are similar to those which had been foreseen for KONEBA. The Government also has
increased domestic prices of petroleum products to at least economic levels, except for
Kerosene (see Annex 1), and average electricity tariffs to reach long run marginal cost.
However, natural gas prices to domestic customers remain below economic cost.
6.04      Also, following KONEBA's conversion into a state-owned company the Government
is trying again to promote KONEBA's commercial activities, particularly among public
enterprises. As a follow-up to Presidential Decree No. 43, all public enterprises will be
required to undertake energy audits and to deploy KONEBA for this purpose.
7.    Component Sustainability
7.01      KONEBA has not proven to be a a sustainable institution. It has not become
the institutional focus for energy conservation in Indonesia, nor has it become a self-
sufficient service organization. Furthermore, KONEBA has had only very limited success in
building up proper in-house expertise independent of foreign consultant support. The
recent decision to turn KONEBA into a monopoly provider of energy conservation services
to public enterprises is tantamount to a continuation of Government subsidies, now being
defrayed in part by captive consumers, without any assurance that quality service would
be provided. It would have been preferable to let public enterprises choose among



competing service providers for assistance in energy audits or other energy conservation
services, as the Bank had advised, and for the Government to avail itself of KONEBA's
services on a cost-effectiveness-oriented contractual basis.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01      As indicated above, KONEBA's poor results are largely a consequence of flawed
design of the project which neither paid sufficient attention to the incentive system for
energy conservation nor the marketability of KONEBA's services. The Bank also realized
only belatedly the adverse implications of charging KONEBA with both a public service
mandate and a commercial function. Problems and conflicts were identified only in the
Bank's second supervision (February 1 991), about 1 5 months after Board approval. It then
took the Bank until March 1992 to engage in a serious discussion with KONEBA and the
Government about KONEBA's future development. At that point it had become obvious
that KONEBA would not be in a position to develop its broader energy conservation
objectives and become financially self-sufficient. The Bank's late reaction is attributable to
supervision missions adhering rather mechanistically to the narrow institutional objectives
of the loan and to infrequent and light supervision. There were only three supervision
missions between March 1988 and March 1992. A more frequent and thorough
supervision might have shown earlier the shortcomings in project design, and allowed to
use consultant services more effectively for developing KONEBA's public service capability.
While the loan made a contribution to raising awareness of the needs for and benefits of
energy conservation and also to upgrading relevant domestic technical expertise, it did not
have a demonstrable effect on improving energy efficiency. Yet, within the broader
context of its macro-economic as well as industrial sector dialogue with the Government
and its lending to the power sector, the Bank has made an important contribution to
improving the incentive framework for energy conservation through rationalization of
energy prices and competitive pressure to improve production process efficiency.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01      It is difficult to assess the performance of KONEBA's management since it was
charged with what may well have been an impossible task. Under the circumstances,
KONEBA nonetheless could have displayed more business acumen and entrepreneurial
strive to make itself useful to both the Government and the private sector. In the first
year, it prepared a draft national energy demand management program, which was not
developed further for lack of Government interest. Effective closure of this avenue
prompted KONEBA's management to focus on commercial activities. Considerable efforts
to attract commercial customers notwithstanding, KONEBA was unable to carve out a
market niche for its services.
9.02      The role of the Government in project follow-up could have been more positive.
Particularly through its involvement in KONEBA's Board of Commissioners it could have
prompted stronger links with the Government's broader energy conservation activities. In
particular, it could have followed-up on some of KONEBA's earlier proposals for national
energy conservation initiatives. Further, its recent decision to provide KONEBA with a
priviledged position among state enterprises (para 6.04) is likely to slow down development
of an efficient industry for energy conservation services in Indonesia.



8
10.   Project Component Relationship
10.01    The relationship between the Bank and KONEBA as well as the Government
remained superficial and did not develop sufficient analytical depth nor commitment to
change the course of the project as would have been called for. The low supervision
intensity and cursory reviews did not allow to grasp fully the difficulties the project was
facing nor to engender a common understanding for action. When the Bank attempted, in
the third quarter of project implementation, to change course, it did not find the
Government receptive to make significant changes and to apply strict performance
standards.
11.  Consulting Services
11.01     Under the KONEBA component, considerable use was made of foreign
consulting services. Annex 5 provides an overview of various consulting assignments.
Given KONEBA's design problems, the main project consultant (Hagler, Bailly & Co.)
performed satisfactorily. The consultant's main assignment of designing and implementing
a national energy demand management program was not successful, but this cannot be
attributed to the performance of the consultant. The consultant put much effort in
assisting KONEBA to market its enterprise services, but with limited results. The various
individual consultants performed well and to the satisfaction of KONEBA.
PUSRI Component
12.   Project Design and Organization
1 2.01   The PUSRI component was designed to implement modifications to three
existing ammonia plants operated by PUSRI in order to increase their energy efficiency by
at least 10 percent and to realize a 20 percent increase in production capacity. The three
ammonia plants had been constructed during 1 972-77. In April 1 984 a project evaluation
study was made by P.T. KELSRI, a joint-venture of M.W. Kellogg Company (USA) and
PUSRI. An experienced foreign engineering consultant (ICI Process Plant Services Ltd, UK)
was contracted in March 1 989, to evaluate the existing plant design and identify necessary
optimization changes, carry out basic engineering, assist in procurement and selection of
contractors, and supervise implementation and start-up. The consultant would also train
PUSRI personnel and provide field staff where required. Detailed engineering was done by
PUSRI together with the various contractors that undertook the plant modifications. For
project management, PUSRI had organized a special team under a Project Director with
managers for technical and construction work, procurement, and project administration.
An organization diagram for project management is shown in Annex 6.



-9-
13.  Component Implementation
13.01    At appraisal, project implementation was expected to start (process design) in
the last quarter of 1987. Plant modifications were scheduled to have been completed by
the end of 1990. In fact, implementation started in March 1989 with the signing of the
agreement between PUSRI and ICI Process Plant Services Ltd (para 12.01). The start-up
delay was caused by the longer time needed to select the main engineering consultant. For
the changes in the ammonia plants several contractors were selected, including Ammonia
Casale (Switzerland) for the ammonia converter changes, UOP (USA) for the changes in the
C02 removal systems, Foster Wheeler (USA), for furnace changes in the reformer
installation, and Dresser Rand (USA) for changes in the ammonia loop compressor. The
plant modifications in PUSRI II were carried out between October and December 1992. For
PUSRI Ill, the ammonia converter was changed in July 1 991, and reformer and other
changes were made between July and August 1 993. For PUSRI IV, the ammonia converter
was completed in June 1990, and the remainder of plant changes in March 1992.
Completion of plant modifications, therefore, was delayed by 22-39 months from the
appraisal schedule (PUSRI II: 39 months, PUSRI III: 31 months, and PUSRI IV: 22 months).
The implementation schedules as estimated at appraisal and actual are given in Annex 7.
13.02    Following plant modifications, all three plants started up quickly and operated at
100 percent capacity. However, they could not reach the planned 20 percent capacity
increase because of unexpected difficulties with existing feed gas waste heat exchangers
which failed to operate at the higher temperature conditions of increased production. In
PUSRI III a new secondary saturator coil also failed. These unexpected problems prevented
the final commissioning and testruns of the plants. As now foreseen the additional
equipment changes will be made during forthcoming maintenance turnarounds of the
plants. For PUSRI II this is planned in January 1995, for PUSRI III in October 1994, and for
PUSRI IV in April 1995. These critical equipment failures, therefore, are expected to delay
successful testruns by a further 13 to 36 months (PUSRI II: 24 months, PUSRI III: 13
months, PUSRI IV: 36 months).
13.03     Main causes of the substantial delays in project implementation were: (i) the
long time (nearly a year) it took PUSRI to select the main engineering consultant firm; (ii)
the need for the consultant to get fully acquainted with the original process and basic
engineering designs of the three plants; (iii) delays in detailed engineering due to
differences in technical drawings and actual field conditions, and insufficient engineering
personnel dedicated by PUSRI; (iv) the need to organize changes in the three plants during
overlapping time periods rather than the projected sequential phasing due to cascading
delays, which added to the overloading of project management; (v) the need to wait for
suitable plant maintenance turn-around times to undertake plant modification works; and
(vi) late delivery of some equipment due to design changes, and failures during test runs (in
case of an air compressor).
13.04    The final cost of the PUSRI component is now estimated at US$40.2 million, as
compared to the appraisal cost estimate of $28.0 million, an increase of 44 percent (for
details see Part ll, Section 5). At the start of the project in 1989, the total budget was
re-estimated by PUSRI at US$32.4 million as a result of design changes and local price
increases. Part of this increase was covered by a US$2.5 million loan from the Japanese
EXIM Bank, for which a loan agreement was signed in October 1988. The balance of



- 10 -
project cost increases was financed by an increase in PUSRI's equity contribution from
US$11.5 million equivalent at appraisal to US$21.5 million. The main reasons for the very
substantial cost overrun are: (i) an underestimate of the quantity and price of equipment
and bulk materials; (ii) addition of unforeseen items as a result of several field changes
during implementation; (iii) increases in salaries and administration costs, interest during
construction, and commitment fees caused by implementation delays; and (iv) addition of
the cost of a catalyst change which had not been foreseen at appraisal (normally such
costs are part of maintenance cost). The additional cost for replacing the failing heat
exchangers is about US$1.5 million (not included in the final cost estimate).
13.05    All Bank-financed equipment and materials have been procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines. International competitive bidding was used for individual items
costing over US$200,000. The total amount for these items was US$11.7 million and
includes the process design and license fee for ICI (US$2.6 million). Small items costing
less than US$200,000 each, adding up to US$1.4 million, were procured through limited
international bidding. Procurement of proprietary process licenses for the ammonia
converters, the Benfield process, and the change of a recycle wheel, at a combined cost of
US$3.13 million, was based on negotiated prices from the original suppliers. There were
no significant procurement problems during project implementation.
13.06    Actual Bank loan disbursements were delayed significantly in the first few years
compared with appraisal estimates. Following loan closing (June 30, 1993), a small
portion of the PUSRI component was canceled (US$0.26 million). A request from PUSRI
for a loan extension to utilize this amount was not accepted by the Bank. Projected and
actual Bank loan disbursements are shown in Part Ill.
14.   Component Results
14.01    Project targets for energy efficiency improvement (10 percent) and capacity
optimization (20 percent) have not been realized so far. The energy savings currently
realized in the three plants are 5.9 percent for PUSRI II, 5.8 percent for PUSRI Ill, and 4.7
percent for PUSRI IV. The above mentioned failure of the heat exchangers has delayed
capacity addition, and hence the realization of potential energy savings. Prior to failure of
the heat exchangers, one plant (PUSRI IV) achieved operation at 117 percent of capacity
and energy saving of 1 2.5 percent. With the replacement of the heat exchangers, it is
expected that the operational targets can be fully met, given PUSRI's demonstrated ability
to run its plants at high capacity. The optimization test runs for the three plants are now
expected to take place in 1 994-1 995 (para 13.02). Once optimal process conditions have
been achieved as expected, production costs of ammonia are expected to decrease by
US$9-10 per ton. The energy efficiency improvements in the PUSRI plants also are having
a demonstration effect on other energy intensive industries in Indonesia. Other fertilizer
companies (Kaltim, Kujang, PIM, Asean Aceh) have already followed PUSRI's example by
making plant improvements to reduce their energy consumption and increase production.
14.02     Financial and economic rates of return for the project component have been
recalculated at 23.4 percent and 24.6 percent respectively. This is considerably lower than
appraisal estimates of 41 percent and 50 percent respectively. The updated calculations
assume that PUSRI will be able to attain the projected energy saving and optimization



- 11 -
targets from 1 995. The decrease in the returns are due to a combination of the higher than
expected project costs and longer implementation period, and updated price assumptions
for sale of surplus ammonia and savings of natural gas which are lower than those
estimated at appraisal. In case PUSRI can not achieve the expected energy saving and
optimization targets and present operating conditions would be maintained (including
energy savings of about 6 percent), financial and economic rates of return would be below
5 percent. Results and assumptions for the revised rate of return calculations are
summarized in Part l1l, section 6. Overall financial performance of PUSRI has continued to
be favorable during project implementation with stable profits and a sound financial
structure. It has fully complied with financial covenants. Recent financial statements for
PUSRI are shown in Annex 8.
14.03     From environmental point of view, the project is expected to be neutral with
small positive and negative impacts. On the positive side is a decrease in C02, NOx and
S02 combustion gas emissions from the furnaces and boilers due to the energy efficiency
measures. This will be neutralized, however, by the enhanced capacities of the plants
which will increase said emissions. If properly operated the plants would have no other
negative environmental impacts that exceed the impact prior to the project. For all three
plants a HAZOP study was conducted. Several safety recommendations from these
studies are included in the project design.
15.   Component Sustainability
1 5.01    It is expected that PUSRI can realize the original energy saving and capacity
optimization targets following installation of the failed heat exchangers. Sustaining these
benefits will require that the plants continue to be operated at the efficient production
levels that PUSRI has shown in the past. This includes continuation of PUSRI's efficient
maintenance program. Sustainability of project results and optimal operations would also
require that natural gas supply to PUSRI will be maintained at required levels.
16.  Bank Performance
1 6.01    Both the Bank and PUSRI management underestimated the complexity of the
changes that had to be made in the ammonia plants, and the time and personnel needed to
implement the projects. By trying to implement the changes in the three ammonia plants
more or less simultaneously, PUSRI's project team became overloaded and the project ran
into delays. A more careful approach could have been to phase the three projects with
sufficient time in between to accommodate possible delays. In such approach the PUSRI
project team could have learned from mistakes and apply lessons in later projects. While it
would not have been possible to contain costs to appraisal estimates, costing more than
the appraised project, it possibly could have resulted in lower final costs. It is also felt that
the Bank appraisal team applied too low physical contingencies to the project cost
estimate. Given the early stage of project design at appraisal, physical contingencies of at
least 20 percent would have been appropriate rather than the 10 percent applied. This
contributed to an unnecessary under-estimation of project cost. The frequency of Bank
supervision missions was too low to adequately follow project implementation. There were
only three supervision missions between March 1988 and April 1 992 covering both the



- 12 -
PUSRI and KONEBA components. Closer supervision, particularly in the early stages of
project implementation, could have helped to identify causes of delays and to agree on
remedial actions.
17.   Borrower performance
1 7.01   The operational, design and construction departments of PUSRI played critical
roles in project implementation. Project progress was closely followed by PUSRI
management. It was in the construction phase and to a lesser extent in the detailed
engineering phase that PUSRI project management could have performed better by earlier
planning adaptations, greater discipline in allocating personnel to the project, and chasing
more aggressively the equipment suppliers that were not maintaining agreed time
schedules. The overall impression of project implementation is that the PUSRI organization
was not fully able to handle the large task of implementing the simultaneous changes in the
three ammonia plants. As explained, however, part of the implementation delays was
caused by unforeseen equipment failure.
18.   Project Relationship
18.01    The Bank has had a long lasting and good relationship with PUSRI through
various previous Bank-financed fertilizer projects. Likewise in this project, the Bank's
relationship with the Government and PUSRI has been good.
19.   Consulting Services
1 9.01    Under the PUSRI component, the Bank loan financed the main project
engineering firm which undertook basic engineering and implementation supervision (para
12.01). The performance of the consultant firm can be considered satisfactory. However,
the unfamiliarity of the consultant with the original design of the plants contributed to
implementation delays.
20.   Project Documentation and Data
20.01     The Staff Appraisal Report and legal documents adequately covered all aspects
of the project albeit not all of them satisfactorily. An efficient review of project
implementation, however, was hampered by the disorganized files for the project. Both
project files in the Asia Information Services Center at head quarters and in the Resident
Mission in Jakarta were incomplete. Some important documents were traced in file boxes
left behind in offices of Bank staff, and not all project progress reports have been found.
The Project Completion Report has been prepared, consolidating the above information.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Indonesia
Industrial Energy Conservation Project
Loan No. 2879-IND
for Part A of The Project (PT. KONEBA)
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE
A.   Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lesson Learned.
1.    At the early stage of the project the Bank had given a presentation on how to
disburse the loan. This presentation had helped the project a lot.
2.    Since the project expenditures were in small amount and usually reimbursement
procedure was used, the disbursement of the loan was rather slow due to the
limitation of the amount to be reimbursed.
3.    We had experienced delays in replies from the bank to our request for approval
and the commitment to be made were delayed also. Most of these requests were
settled during the bank mission.
4.    During the project preparation the first idea was to establish an energy
conservation center. Further consideration changed the idea to an autonomous
commercial entity as stated in the Appraisal Report, but the scope of work of the
organization and the terms of reference for the consultant remain the same. To
cover it a bridging clause was inserted in the contract between the Consultant and
PT, Koneba and because of that, the activities was a combination of commercial
and non commercial activities.
5.     Major lesson learned:
(a)   A smooth communication between the project and the Bank is very
important to be set up especially for the project commitments approval to
ensure the schedule of the project commitments and disbursement. On top
of that, it is also very important that all parties involved should have the
same perception regarding the objective of the project which is to realize
the energy conservation potential as stated in the World Bank Appraisal
Report dated 16 September 1987,
(b)   The "scope of work" of the company is limited and it made the revenue
more difficult.



- 14 -
(c)   The Consultant - (Resident Advisors) could not assist the company to
reach the goal based on real business.
B.    Evaluation of Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned.
1.    The performance of the participating institution in overall is good.
2.    Koneba was established as an autonomous commercial entity but the scope of
work and Terms of Reference still covered non-commercial activities. Meanwhile
the market on energy conservation is still a potential market and not a captive
market which made it difficult for Koneba to get enough revenue to cover its
cost.
3.    President Decree which was issued in 1991 made it clear the Government of
Indonesia's commitment on the implementation of the energy conservation
programs and Government concerned on Energy Conservation.
4.    Major lesson learned:
Koneba's employee have more experiences now in energy conservation and
became experts in this field. Transfer of know how was more on the micro
level/company level on auditing, not on the macro level such as planning, data
base which was handled already by the GOI. Nevertheless all energy consumers
should realize the importance of implementing energy conservation.



- 15 -
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION
LOAN NO. 2879 - IND
PUSRI AMMONIA OPTIMIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART - II






- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT (LOAN - 2879 IND)
PART - II
I.    Overall Assessment of the Project Performance
1.0   Final modifications selected for the optimization of Pusri II, III & IV plants are:
Retrofit Option                          Pusri II     Pusri III      Pusri IV
Ammonia converter modification               V             V              V
Synthesis gas compressor recycle wheel       V             V              V
modification
Modification to C02 removal system           V             V              V
Primary reformer convection section          V             V              V
modification
Saturator system                             V             V              V
Secondary reformer modification              V             V              V
Additional air compressor (2 compressors                   V              V
for 3 units)
Waste gas utilization                        V             V              V
D.C.S.                                       V             V              V
1.1   A technical consultancy firm, I.C. I., U.K., was selected after competitive bidding
following Government procedures. A contract was executed on March 2, 1989
which required the consultancy firm to perform the following activities and
provide guarantees:
-     Evaluation study
-     Preparation of PROCESS DESIGN PACKAGE
-     Supervision of Basic Engineering Work, Detailed Engineering Work,
Procurement, Commissioning & Start-UP, Project Control etc. performed
by Pusri to provide guarantees.
-     Provide Field Staff Personnel as required.
-     Skills upgrading program for owner's personnel.
Ammonia Casale and U.O.P. Benfield were appointed for the converter and C02
removal low-heat Benfield modification respectively.



- 17 -
1.2   Details of each optimization retrofit and the energy saving results to be achieved
from each retrofit is as given below:
|_______ _   (in MMBTU/MT)
Retrofit Option                         Pusri II     Pusri III      Pusri IV
Ammonia converter modification and syn-        0.97           1.06         1.06
gas compressor recycle
Wheel modification
Modification to C02 removal (Low-heat          1.74           1.28         1.28
Benfield)
Primary reformer modification including        0.94          0.22          0.22
change of steam carbon ratio
Saturator system                               0.56          0.56          0.56
Waste gas utilization                          1.16           1.21         1.21
Total energy savings                           5.37          4.49          4.49
% savings                                 12.58          10.73        10.73
Additional air compressor               Additional air to increase the plant load
(2 units for 3 plants)
Secondary reformer modification         To improve the operational range and
operability
DCS system                              To improve the operability
The above optimization retrofits will also increase the plant capacities by 20% of the name plate
as below.
(in MT)
Plant                 Capacity prior to     Estimated production
optimization        after optimization
Pusri II                    660                    792
Pusri III                   1,000                  1,200
Pusri IV                    1,000                  1,200



- 18 -
1.3   Following modifications were carried out during the plants' turnaround:
Plant                   Modification                      Period
Pusri II     - All modification at the same time      Oct - Dec 1992
Pusri III    - Ammonia converter                      July 1991
- Reformer convection section modifications   July - August 1993
- Additional air compressor
- C02 removal modification
- New BFW coil
Pusri IV     - Ammonia converter                      June 1990
- All remaining modifications            Jan - March 1992
1.4   The following modifications are yet to be carried out and the reasons are given
below:
Pusri II    -     All modifications completed.
Pusri III   -     New  secondary saturator coil failed after installation,
during testing. This coil needs to be replaced during next
turnaround in 1994.
Modifications to synthesis gas compressor recycle wheel
and internals were not carried out due to the limitations of
the down-stream equipment (123-C) which is planned for
replacement during the 1994 turnaround.
Pusri IV    -     All modifications completed.
1.5   The results achieved to date based on the preliminary performance test are:
(a)   Energy conservation
Pusri II    -     Energy consumption per ton of ammonia reduced
from 42.68 to 40.16 MMBTU resulting in 5.90%
reduction.
Pusri III   -     The revamp modifications were completed during
the plant turnaround July-September 1993 and
performance test is yet to be carried out. However,
based on the normal plant operation an energy
savings of 5.80% has been achieved.



- 19 -
Pusri IV    -      Energy consumption per ton of ammonia reduced
from 41.68 to 38.64 MMBTU/ton resulting in
12.5 % reduction. However, the present best energy
savings is about 4.67%.
(b)   Capacity Increase.
The production capacity of all the three plants are maintained at the same
levels even after optimization. The reasons for not increasing the plants'
load are given in the subsequent paragraphs.
1.6   Limitations to increase in Plant load and Reduction in energy consumption are
summarized as below:
A common problem for all the three plants which restricts the increase in
the plant load to 120% is 123-C Feed Gas Effluent Exchanger, which was
not in the optimization scope of work.
For the uprated plant condition, as the plant load is increased from 100%
to 120% the inlet temperature to 123-C exchanger increases from around
298oC to 340C - 3500C. Based on the experience the exchangers are
prone to develop leaks between tube and tube sheet beyond 3100C.
Because  of 1230C  exchanger problem  which  cannot withstand
temperatures beyond 3100C the plant load is maintained at 100%.
The additional process air compressor which is required to increase the
plant load is also not in service so the plant load could not be raised above
100%.
1.7.  Reasons for the failure of 123-C exchanger is given below:
The complete objectives of the optimization project were not realized as
the plant load could not be raised beyond 100 % due to 123-C exchanger
which can n!ot withstand temperatures beyond 3100C.
Replacement of this exchanger was not foreseen either during the initial
evaluation period or during the detailed study stage.
Though Pusri bidding documents clearly specified during bidding stage
that bidders should carefully evaluate 123-C exchangers, all the three
renowned process owners (Kellogg, Topsoe, ICI and ammonia converter
retrofit licensor, Ammonia Casale) clearly declared that 123 - C exchanger



- 20 -
is not to be replaced and the metalurgical analysis confirmed the suitability
of material of the existing exchangers for temperatures up to 3500C.
1.8   The reasons for the delay in the implementation of the project are summarized
below:
The main reasons for the delay in the completion of the project can be grouped
under the following four headings:
(a)    Delay in delivery by suppliers.
This delay was experienced with both local and foreign suppliers,
eventhough all the requirements were fulfilled from the purchaser's side.
(b)   Turnaround schedule.
The modifications required to be performed for optimization project are
normally scheduled during turnaround period.
There were two kinds of problems experienced
1.    Materials required for modifications were not available at site due
to late delivery by vendors. Postponing the turnaround would have
required rescheduling of other activities and other plant
turnarounds which is very expensive.
2.    Prolonging of turnarounds due to unforeseen breakdown in the
plant that would require extended time to repair is a possibility.
Annual turnarounds are combined with these activities utilizing the
extended turnaround periods and material for optimization work
were not ready during this period.
(c)   Delay in opening L/C's.
The equipment and material vendors always requested for an L/C before
proceeding with the work. Vendors always insist to insert a condition that
"Effective Date for the commencement of the contract is the date on
which a valid L/C is received"
(d)   Field changes.
The detailed engineering performed heeded to be revised sometimes based
on the field conditions during execution which also delayed the project.
Some of the field changes were due to the non-availability of the "as built
drawings".



- 21 -
Some of the pipes purchased were of wrong specification (over looked by
ICI) and failure to calculate the additional rashing rings load in the C02
removal section needed reinforcement of supports.
1.9   To achieve the benefits of the optimization results i.e, energy savings upto 10
% and a production increase of 20 %, the following pending jobs to be carried
out as per the schedule below:
Pusri II -    Replacement of new 123-C exchanger during 1995 turnaround.
Pusri III-    Replacement of the following during the turnaround in October
1994.
a.    Saturator coil
b.    Synthesis gas compressor recycle wheel
c.    123-C exchanger
Pusri IV-    Replacement of 123-C exchanger during April 1995 turnaround.
1.10  Based on the experience of Pusri in having operated the plants for more than 20
years and the results of the preliminary performance tests in Pusri IV (the plant
has already operated at 117% capacity and has reduced energy consumption by
12.5 %( it is clear the project objectives of reducing the energy consumption by
10% and increasing production rate by 20% can be achieved very easily, once
123-C exchanger is replaced with a suitable new exchanger which can withstand
an inlet gas temperature up to 3500C.
1.11  Project Over-run.
There are four main reasons for the project over-run:
a.    Bulk material
Underestimated quantity and price of bulk material were one of the
reasons for the increase in project cost.
b.    Inclusion of new items.
Some of the modifications which were not foreseen during engineering
stage were taken up as field changes.
Some of the consumable items like some catalyst, DCS, were not included
which has no direct impact to optimization, however purchases were made
using the optimization funds (Japan Exim Bank).



- 22 -
c.    Other costs.
The impact of delays also increased the budget estimates of the following:
(i)   interest during construction + commitment fee to Bank.
(ii)   payment of salaries/benefits to Project Staff.
(iii)   Administration cost.
II.    Overview of the Pusri component.
2.0   The four major activities of Pusri are:
(a)    Participation in the preparation of Process Engineering Design Package
and Basic Engineering.
(b)   Detailed Engineering.
(c)    Procurement.
(d)   Construction.
The review of the activities are summarized below:
(a)    Pusri engineers were stationed at ICI headquarters in U.K. to actively
participate in the preparation of the Process Engineering Design Package
and Basic Engineering.  This enabled Pusri engineers to effectively
execute the Detailed Engineering work at Pusri Palembang.
(b)   The complete Detailed Engineering work was carried out by Pusri
engineers in Palambang with the guidance and supervision -from the Ict
personnel. The comprehensive Detailed Engineering work performed
resulted in arriving at the equipment specification, purchase specification,
piping, instrument and electricAl drawings, bill of material etc.
(c)    Procurement
Based on the Detailed Engineering Package and data sheets, the
Procurement of foreign and local purchases of equipment and materials
were performed by Pusri following the Bank's procedures and
Government regulations.
Some of the difficulties experienced in the procurement are given under
the paragraph, reasons for delay in the completion of the project.
(d)   Construction.
Construction work consisting of civil structural equipment erection, piping
and all other related activities to complete the project were carried out



- 23 -
entirely by Pusri, using some of the local Sub Contractors on as needed
basis.
The "Self Management" (Swakelola) concept was adopted for the
implementation of the project.
So far as the construction work was concerned there were no significant
difficulties experienced that are worth mentioning.
Borrower's Performance during the project.
3.0   The performance of the Bank was smooth during the execution of the project.
The difficulties in complying with the Bank procedures along with Government
regulations, caused certain delays. Some of the reasons for the delays are also
stated elsewhere in this report.
3.1   Experience Gained and Lessons Learned.
The experience gained and lessons learned during the implementation of the
project are very educative for the new projects started by Pusri and can be
summarized below:
(a)   Development of engineering skills.
(b)   Development of constructions skills.
(c)   Improvements in the procurement techniques in respect of both foreign
and local purchases for new items.
(d)   Improvement in the project management skills.
(e)   Further development of local fabricators' skills to supply  more
complicated equipment.
(f)    Development of skills of the construction sub contractors.
(g)   Too many modifications to be carried out during a single turnaround
including normal turnaround activities. This puts certain constraints to get
a good quality work. If modifications are carried out in two or three
stages, more attention is possible to each modification.  Also such
implementation scheme in stages gives ample room for the timely
procurement of material.



- 24 -
(h)   The revamp consulting company/consultant should be the process licensor
of the project. Using a revamp consultant other than the license owner
delays a number activities as there is a learning process involved. The
developments made by the licensors in their own process could not be
incorporated due to lack of comprehensive knowledge on the part of the
consulting company.
(i)   Too many purchase orders were issued for the procurement, almost one
purchase order for each equipment. This could have been avoided by
grouping the purchase orders into for example, vessels, pumps,
exchangers etc. This will help the process of expediting, inspection etc.
IV.   Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the period.
V.   Financial Aspects.
5.0   The budgeted cost of the project based on the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report
Number 5959 - IND dated September 16, 1987:
(in thousand USD)
Foreign        Local          Total
Total project cost        16,500.00       8,500.00     23,000.00
IDC/Commitment fee         3,000.00      2,000.00       5,000.00
Total Financing           19,500.00       8,500.00     28,000.00
required
IBRD portion                                           16,500.00
Local portion                                          11,500.00
Details are given in Attachment - I



- 25 -
5.1   Pusri proposed budget estimates and approved by the Government on 23rd of
January 1989.
(in thousand USD)_     _
Foreign        Local         Total
Project cost             16,500.00     12,633.00     29,133.00
IDC/Commitment fee           0          3,299.00      3,299.00
Total Project Cost       16,500.00     15,932.00     32,432.00
IBRD portion                                         16,500.00
Exim II Japan                                         2,500.00
Pusri portion                                        13,432.00
Total                                                32,432.00
5.2   Revised Estimation of Project Cost Approved by the Government on 22nd of July
1993.
l ___________________             (in  thousand  USD)
Foreign        Local         Total
Project cost             16,500.00     18,323.00     34,823.00
IDC/Commitment fee           0          5,379.00      5,379.00
Total Project Cost       16,500.00     23,702.00     40,202.00
IBRD portion                                         16,500.00
Exim II Japan                                         2,500.00
Pusri portion                                        21,202.00
Total                                                40,202.00



- 26 -
5.3   Funds for the Project.
(a)   World Bank funds USD 16,500,000 (Loan Number 2879-IND executed
on November 9, 1987)
(b)   Exim Bank II Japan USD 2,500,000 (Sub Loan Agreement Number SLA-
425/DDI/1988 between Pusri and Government of Indonesia)
(c)   Pusri Equity USD 21,202,000 including IDC.
5.4   Economic viability of the project.
(a)   Forecasted viability of the project prior to implementation of the project.
Total project cost:  USD 32,431,800
IRR:             23.13%
ROI:             28.38%
POT:             3.91 years
ROE:             35.33%
(Based on ammonia selling price of US$ 170 per ton).
(b)   Expected viability of the project
(i)   Based on energy conservation - See Attachment II
IRR on Equity     :    9.47%
IRR on Investment: 7.79%
Gas price    :    US$ 1/MMBTU
Ammonia
selling price:   US$ 100/ton
(ii)   Based on production increase - See Attachment III
IRR on Equity:    11.14%
IRR on Investment: 8.57%
Gas price:        US$ 1/MMBTU
Ammonia
selling price:   US$ 100/ton
5.5   Loan Disbursement Schedule.
See Attachment I



- 27 -
Attachment I
DISBURSEMENT, CHRONOLOGICAL
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank Fiscal    Estimated     Actual      Actual %
Year           Cumulative   Cumulative   of
& Semester                    (semi-     Estimated
annual)
1989            3,130          540        16.1
___________2,650
1990            5,567         5.020      42.4
___________    6,993
1991           12,806         6,759      67.2
____________11,084
1992           15,000        11,405      90.4
____________14,918
1993           16,500        15,195      98.4
16,242
258
Total Loan                      16,500
Amount



- 28 -
2.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
2.1   Project Cost: Appraisal Estimate
(Conversion rate 1,650 Rupiah = 1 US$)
(million US$)
Foreign     Local     Total   As % of
Total
Pusri Energy Efficiency       3.1         1.0      4.1         76
Engineering Service
Royalties and License Fee     3.3                  3.3        100
Equipment and Materials       6.6         0.1      6.7         99
Freight and Insurance         0.8         0.8      1.6         50
Construction                  0.4         3.2      3.6         11
Start-Up and                  0.2         0.3      0.5         40
commissioning
Base Cost Estimate            14.4        5.4    19.8          73
Physical Contingencies         1.4        0.5      1.9         74
(about 11 % of base cost)
Price Escalation              0.7         0.6      1.3         54
Total Project Cost        16.5        6.5    23.0          72
Interest during               3.0         2.0      5.0         60
construction
19.5        8.5    28.0          70



- 29 -
2.2   Project cost: Budget Estimate
(million US$)
Foreign     Local     Total   As % of
Total
Pusri Energy Efficiency       3.0         0.0      3.0         76
Engineering Service
Royalties and License Fee     2.5         0.5      3.0        100
Equipment and Materials       11.0       17.4    28.4          99
Freight and Insurance and                          0.0         50
Overhead
Construction                  0.0         0.4      0.4         11
Start-Up and                  0.0         0.0      0.0         40
commissioning
Base Cost Estimate            16.5       18.3    34.8          73
Physical Contingencies        0.0         0.0      0.0         74
(about 1 1 % of base cost)
Price Escalation              0.0         0.0      0.0         54
Total Project Cost        16.5       18.3    34.8          72
Interest during               0.0         5.4      5.4         60
construction
16.5       23.7    40.2          70
Change of fund               -0.3         0.3      0.0
Total Actual Budget           16.2       24.0    40.2



- 30 -
2.3   Project Financial Plan
(million USD)
Foreign     Local     Total   As % of
Total
Equity:                           0.0        21.5    21.5
PUSRI
- For Pusri Energy Efficiency
Sub Total (a)                     0.0        21.5    21.5          53
Debt:                             0.0         2.5     2.5
Exim II Japan loan
IBRD loan                        16.2                16.2
Sub Total (b)                    16.2         2.5    18.7          47
Total Financing (a + b)          16.2        24.0    40.2



wizatimrsAmuoy Ct-0 at-
o              o             0             4            *             4             o                               6                                                                                 :i.*1lYd1  TTC*0Z 7  It
%. atVt I           ocn)     All c          t  bt ar   derll-.r    onEl    ttc-r ti  a tt s V        ecr-,t8r       ec :oL LtlKLV4II Ml   TtIM3
el-al          *aaof         atl., ,       . TEA.    Ga. aI           .C11:21.    a1at411           al- I           IL....                                                                                              U2L.MIu
tCccvttlt      *tL't rIt   *tLCiE            1c1c t      it *z AEVct c              oct Lt1  L'tb(C  Cr1t Crt                                                                                               111m aav Wml TI.J!a3lt
ntrccrt        *cao Ic       at-l-         4*.6U tst*    aSC*@        .c-e  s "r   CaBrt   oda-:.cr-tl    PLC  IC-CI  si4'1tC'r                                                                                     LityTt  WYVI
Cna-c          oStctI         tco.6        Ona-st      aaSICCr    aio-at.-t    etccra,             Ot-             a            *19199t                                                                            otOlItdSa
--     I                                                                                                                                                                                     ulaCIllI. ~~~~~Ut:I  t4UII  C  U'l ft2WIf  I" 
*  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c-t,  srca-n o-,,JJC  hll4t41sL
eZect I    .a,oa  d LA                         Sm                     IICCI la0AlL3/.Il! ,V 1WU31 *O 1.ya                                     It) tao       QI(.Cr fPrecta,                             11o        SL)tl t v"ai1 1 a,
sto-es                           otoDsS~LLC,ajaa l                                                                                  :,eiLws    saCtfa-    oarala-a                            *s14C  .-.eOC Ua;ea;
roo..4..*  CCL1.r&:9    Cod  L   -WL.V-E  tW4t94t'aI C.- I             T C'oga cs    Ct1t6  *0oa>CVI                                    C44t I.         s 3oD-T5IUtS
t^eho**Tt    * rm ~ ~  ~      ~      ~    ~     LVII                                             l,l.aaao  ZUItWW '1T151         OtiarC      C(lta-    asoAttTc                         .441 .2d64U ni 
cto)C.o@@.     t rI                              jIidii    kV(IAtT/h     XTl                            ITtfU11  61W -                       ;                                                                              ,
aw?Mao( Ca -l~*                            44ME  UMaESe -      O Ld        t S    1( Iwnct't 
--o-zteC  i-^&                                         ~ewaarrs                                                              nnSOc)oG i                                NrtMII 't?OD - C _
YTtiIal ca                                 asnueaHl _                       t0441tr5 
'II wtOO                                IIUU   luLls  _                       abta (    r                                                440 W17'IUI  TY;L -
4LLktOaL                              41(15.13 sealo     - lJIIs Oli   444    *ccaIc-                                                      E     M r  VS J  SOtsto l   '
ecru.                                            21"42H;Po 981W44're" NW" UY'e-9& Ia ' ro-Ca sm I n.":I
t                                       8e*9~~~~~~a                                 C^ul 2o5o14 4O1oI)ltdE     01L0                                                  1     TIVLt     SI
t0i.(.Cllt     B ad                   X51  nco4  *101                 5006                                    VIII UJ    - * KI YI JSIP       71Y5. Xan t0111)a
10a*a          I142                                                   a  iST                           Ky*s          Io 1i1         5.411    O*Cr                                                       L 6         a.  a    -i
Io                                   All.1) 5611(1   1)ll   all             00                                         iNl  OEZNd IJICTI   Cad  ~ltI-4                                                              S140.- 40  1 1  -~
ai0*La=lt       4*.z11aI    Ira-n..    0111La1-  114  111   (CC 1tO'O-5Ct) 1,,CtiTlt)   l.lC 104411   4,It.o,Irl (t eI torJCtl<S@1L11l  CSIdaE--l St4C4C1c                                   LaKZ.o  WOsli   fn ZYJISill t OJt 
2xd::1.-q    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 4*11 elII061 35  3U&TIINlE
,alc,c4t        I4'CLZIt   kS-CLLt'    1I*LL5.*    *16*1SI*l    plslrEt    xtcar r                (IIL-La-tl    1aca-rA}    4uu-C,-t) I,CoL4.-.)t  Isa.-ec.-o  IlI.oqJ                     LOllVtl STt  IV41JatSta  6114  -
~csCZI^         atl4*t  _ *c'  l*wt    *C0B D^C    4(,SaLs .         -l 111L       COtt             U 4             l    C      -            0LIl2  01Tl
a.*(t           Pat II       * eftOaT     oc(tDcl      *01 c6        i*1t6t10Bl    *i t'c          *AcCIt t1       cac-oo1 -O                 a                                                                       I*I1tJl  -
ILC^1APL        eac-tIt-;    4K4(161       *11Z11Z       %414114      ftlt1C&'   0t} 00l   L       oLtt            lIL-11    a *             0                                                *        U1442s 5101 TT.tsat4d 1I
*4-w.                S             6 N  tvi                   I             0               4                                                                          -                             I3 TCJILIO4lta11:101
!s69@1 s  S4^L4sZ    CF l-*    TC~~aiv  NO=                la  C.C.                                        SRr ri ffmma3h.t MeCI*b-} te**sF   z+es    ~-~I                                               IX;s
111C141   a~~~fL*C l Ica0           allt        14tIl         161            Iaka,            t0-iZiIa  tA16l4lCd",K   a',:                                                         -. I     I LIaA  .:t-l
4t~~4C6tI  ce~~Lt.C      ISEC          *4(          (l4:t 5061    (l4tLlC0  4("C  aS   c    4                  4            6                                                                  .3  Wma       idw -rott
e,-eti-cc      -P La :;I   Loint -C       p4.- t   thIc-.1i,)   C ral-cM- ILcCt ttI   lczaaecg)    VzzlatCcI .rllg1ttI  a *                                                                           L       5 I    It4100 lflW
SLCS5S         *I1 WCI     116061          4MCLxP *Lt                 iZ't4 I f"et?   CdQl                 I ai)  IdaI9mL  l1 tC*uit.l                                                             *Se ALO aLInM
@tOai          Ll      I        't.         cIV   '     Axlfvll      aAC-ot         Oath           laall(          aecc         t..cz       All'.                                        .1 Yd t oa 6010064n z tvortoo".
-|I'FC        *l l *t       *444           L4 C   F    144l          14I           lOC             1411          fV6t      C 4L    *           l                                          Wstt   86 11c 05.4 380 U4oll
al 1           I         o                 L IC Pzv  IM P1c1,                                                                                                                                                        z    I11 I9Ozoal s atl   -
tE0Z%C..e            a,lal ab4     6911(.1c    oe6,54l         11Ttl0       69L,LCc         4LELl,M.        OCIPOdwOw
vtI,1e          waac1ta      ahttoei    AI t*L)1*       Oa*sc ef as a4AtIP          a5C(t          4ii^e)e:       e4LtICL       eae         a                                                                            1105rt .:
at-etar@        11('C41'    lit't          LtI.CCC      *II^t1C       1 *  tcfl1   etat~            ss lI  as-c a                aXv<    e                                                                iSO) *IIVJO -r
61i'r- at             n eri       ao -s gal      so..         *oant        ole-ls        e@a8  Ca        -               a            o            o                                                                     asarasa.
bo*1s    * @~t a            s      a             a     "      as                          a               a      w       ^t a   w     'weoOso  a ta.
W. a.                                              LCtI         t,.,      .                    o 0  0        a0 Wlul3mr4
0a-t             01                        n sEt       tilt agrIol    *a4Ie       a.C               4)t.t I16w4                  IC@11        U                                                                $SC. ad **iwC
Oe"         )d6Sttk!t !t- - wor=zini.?f44    _ ^ l ll ti li0I 4T! '1.. 6v;.-.i:i'.]ti"   P  I 4I6tW   l4m -?S11;- 1II I Ctl  iI& Vi:lLs   . -*e i AiI 
U&DI VI                                                                             1414  63  1 tOzJ   aWIV        Bail  _-t llCl*t 40_I
~24  t K    to                                                                                                                                                                                               i  4C  *9ec Lsg SOA    =a     sL  0A
ta [[d'  jII8 -2W12C                                                                                                                                                         10U10440feV (Clcl   zottv C -P  0rt o  tlr-    40991  DSLUNW  511    003=5INCI4  waol
XI                                                                      \-                                                                                ( 



E                                                                   cc,woa,T                                                                                                                                     2"M  oi
'091-LA.L.1        Oct-sco-C        4119-r-'a       oto-04 't
aq-:Ic-c       : 's it : -FI:    t    IC - r.    .4t   I c                              CK           "t tv  p                                                                                                                      KLT449 "M  -.IwzxwA
16
et -CEL                                                                                  tbt-d
O r.                                                                                          9,9-
C'SLI-I         ec,   "I                         .19 &O(,"        04C   sq , 0 t   Olt :cad        ft., t it "CT       acglm               945-9 w  09
M at                               OtL    0           OIX: Ic('%       401409,t
'::"4T:e      CIO    991ti   rUI4Pt,PC            S .:4WT:%,          tvr VC91A9                                                                                                                  zz,&Mm
vW61"t    St.    I   L    C.   Cw; C[                                                  a  49  C                           coo-xoclab
JI:                 I
_w_Ii2L ;t!t
M0=w=dd2d I 10111MV.1"  OtTm
ISts'Its'sC   r On, t ",I,.  456'TOL'Si
96- roF Ov        A Is                                asw  TUOL                       404'rt                                       ZAMSIMI m  Hv0.!xff AO AL"                I                .9                                                     C..r j"p,x vuls moo
.99'ett'R       11, 6  -1            IT  C                            Time 4maprsvDqslg LSW
0",
Smst-I                                                                                                                                                                                        tt'DIC41.9   4090-146- t                                     2112mtcwnosl: LSOO
swvskg                                                     wwmgag SILZrAlIdsm avcn            ic               It :4 I-    0001C.Clt                                        immosvosti  IAW
Alinfli                                                                                                           41:1-so         IT: wilf                                                     IM3MIMMISSIG LSM
""a, Mtqwoclr                                             avas'saftl                                               Lz.1n5j
dKVAKN 1023.v
IT41figgs"Oft'sal                                    aICf#JIf VWWM          N0SJdmnAgw3 m           *C.-Czd-.e
01VA"u"Ill"111
IM:C111,9"                                                                   493myzuju  71z=
bot: Peg                                                                                     vac_                                                                                   a"'
gazm 14'. ,                                   aptafall  vr4a                                 `aco't E. I PC                                                          L903 021".3691 -ITZ"
G"n    .1                                     OWASN NWJEB -    L:13TAT3 AJIV24               ti: ::I?.:c                                                                   avsxvxAo 1321-y"
Ded    to  1                                                          St-.142- 13 I 21102211
ILLVI VOILT139TA"          IK     I                                                                ITIVILVN 9 spiawgaras -
I  or_,VA Lfiftaffra
Igo-twot          t on                                        esm                                                                                      UV* r.9913zoll         ream
x-  _.I.Med4                                                                                            lO.;   I "A         LS
remit -gal" -n-M                     vv                                                                                                                                                                 'ArM.11.1  :111:12.
it eg
VC9.4*T - K        Son' 1% -C I   99SIVIE                                                       C0  Is4vcm  IC          rvir-sov-40         (fac,ft" ill tfd                                              "(SE   pw ,                 LM2m&Td3rV Mjt IV413KI:A tVtIX"
11
9     Ity  delc                        (DOG-Gz"41  006-;;Gwr O             coc-lan's-tt    (CCf,sC4,b          E    _%$I n      0   Et   ri         kr  L)          tam)                LUBKLT41V MYA  qv4xjHl 4  UIJT
i1jewu iisvo &am saxivirPero
jee:Ct                              qLC-Cq.-4       t, -%44'L        tt-G.T'P        Ot               C.j'KPC'C          .05'.tw.           I se.-I S         t0-tyrt) (9tolvaL-cil I- C.-CL4.0  t,%R,ws4-sl                          rZINK1143rd ityA   VA "ItrO14 1%K"It
S                                                                   En.,
WO'PtL'V        I&PI091- 0        calMl.'s       9.P,v9P,P               T16'TI       014'OLI)          Act-Le'..) I.Kc..A.-W            %94-.CP--.J ttLM-b0.J                    2wwdsm  . 1.13 ... 4 I'VJZAV
,",J tyz Lss
1- Lcz-T   _Lweer-C                ewewt            .1.4-w -C                              C I           E- c-r           r[-vtdIC          C`Cv 7 I. -C                                                                                              1102MILT.2% KYVI TnM
01-11              WC-ILL           Q11'.0s         DIC'CEI          *1      I           1,              o
dILIcpr-x        U.Cpt-z        :.L.9trIc                                          :1541cle-C         alivcbe-t           4Lt'ILT"         0                                                                                 XpEeDIXT.611 IM.1 IVIi;fj
TVZ10r. OOCIMA
'ZIJOV4 L;A
"LE t)  I C    5. t,
L'"e. IM-111
(6cq-..r0
Eck C a                                                                                              (E., C a           let,
*:et   c 4 .6             1         t       S                                                                                                                                                                             A
C.A.44.'s          rvV'495 v        CC- I  A       cap-66--v        cos-00.19        cap-rc;-,    U41"I                                    (ros,oce-0    cta;&-69'0    O                                                                                             Vera sseee
vs:E9              v::rl               I:           of               rals.1           tcl.zc            F:, I             st:t's P           C 8:1-ec         L::otc                                                             AOJ-m "Si 320* "01.1.19LMN4 VINE"w    Oqn3
49 44              I  cc               6            rA : 11          it, PC           ELIO$            90 C'd             M   t              ts Gzr           I    er         .6.9                                                    VfMopVVe dO PICNI U74 310- Wl-          dd
1,01"94"C   __X4,01WO    AM9,9sq's                  CL-VIO's         tval tfellp      4-i'WE'.         PKPCoi*f          PKf, f         rz,t  -9       AC014F.'t                                                                                       Acs-V%4
","S                                 VZ'  S                                                                                                  4 K'Off                                                                                                                193av.34L
, :P
:.'It :`gC t. I  %C   t.              Lis .,     0                 VW        t      tc-I r'.-A        6LL-400'O           alt"ff-I         Act"wt    O                                                                                      'et STIM"w-
1.10,06*19                                01-t                C      tw*079-                          9616- t;t -E       d                                                                                                                             45a DML"Ieo
Ono-lot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2301".V.,
PA                                              0                                                                                                                        .1
)M uriva
oot-dco-        OnXIMOIT        our, 'M                                a                9                                                                               50dg P 4
Aft           'Od-I.I.        z.9 ldt - - - E.6-L.1-            g-Z-L.1         E.O.'al          cet'XI                                4
.90-01G.Cy         09010LI-0    Goo-GLM-1:1   b"10101ti    090,4AMICI    DW-.LT-tt   990,94U.9                           Got-soo-z           *IN-put.r.    tOOS'LVC't    0                                                                                 isa ISSITJI TIMOWT
fi.'ve,        M.-way           0011DIET         DOLI.et         .96,zot             dba-*Z             .14-OL           atu-cl          0                                                                           'COXX.10401114 'CZWWT
vvt
r dt  aa MMAXII
.2a,11pe t 4. 7.B set is 02-rrfla' r 91 .-et. U.;av
C1004 POXXVSSXLLdO Al-:1 lognA larza iriowm



- 33 -
PART 111: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year of
Loan No.   Title              Purpose             Approval    Status
3097-IND    Power Sector      To improve the      1989        Under implementation
Efficiency Project    economic, technical
and institutional
efficiency of the
electricity subsector
3282-IND    Fertilizer        Modernization of PK  1991       Under
Restructuring      Gresik fertilizer              implementation.
Project            company,                       Completion under
optimization of four           different components
other fertilizer               between 1994 and
companies, analyses            1997
of improved fertilizer
distribution and
pollution abatement
2.    Promect Timetable
Item             Date Planned       Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification
- Initial Project Brief   July 10, 1985        --         July 10, 1985
Preparation           July 1985                             July 1985
Appraisal Mission     October 1985       January 1986       January 1986
Post-appraisal mission        --         May 1986           May 1986
Loan Negotiation      March 1986         June 26, 1987      June 26, 1987
Board Approval        May 1986           October 13, 1987    October 13, 1987
Loan Signature               --          November 9, 1987   November 9, 1987
Loan Effectiveness    December 31, 1987  February 5, 1988   February 5, 1988
Loan Closing          June 30, 1993      June 30, 1993      June 30, 1993
Project Completion    December 31, 1992          --         Octoberl994-April 1995
Comments:
1.    Project processing delays include time taken to decide on the status of PT
KONEBA.
2.    Actual completion date of the project is taken as the expected period of
replacement of failed equipment at the three PUSRI plants.



- 34 -
3.    Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ 1OOO)
1988      1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
Part A: PT KONEBA
Appraisal Estimate          880      2,140      3,130      3,760     4,300      4,500
Actual                      727      1,220      1,552      2,111     2,396      2,396
Actual as % of               83         57         50         56         56         53
Estimate
Part B: PT PUSRI
Appraisal Estimate        2,200      9,600    15,600    16,500    16,500    16,500
Actual                         0     1,639      7,357    11,623    14,792    16,242
Actual as % of                 0        17         47         70         90         98
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement:
PT KONEBA  :         December 22, 1992
PT PUSRI    :        September 23, 1993
Time Line of Appraisal Estimate and Actual Disbursement Schedules
PT KONEBA                                 PT PUPUK SRIWIJAYA
18000
4500
4500 .            ,_               ~~~~~    ~     ~     ~~~16000   <
4000                                            14000
3500        ,                                  1000
3000                                            12000        /
/    ~~~~~~~~  ~~10000              /
Ln 2000~~~~~~ 8000                              /
1500                                            6000   /
1000                                            4000
500                                             2000
0i                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993              1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
-  - - Appraisa estimate  Actual               -  - -Appraisal estimate  Actl



- 35 -
4.    Project Implementation
Indicators             Appraisal Estimate          PCR Estimate
PT KONEBA
. No. of energy audits/studies         87                        25
PT PUSRI
. Start process design      September 1987            August 1989
. Completion of plant
modifications:
PUSRI II                 September 1989            October 1 992  a)
PUSRI IlIl               January 1991              January 1993  a)
PUSRI IV                 May 1990                  February 1992 a)
Comments:
a)    These completion dates exclude replacement of heat exchangers which failed
unexpectedly in the three plants. These are expected to be replaced in plant
maintenance turn-around periods January 1995 (Pusri 11), October 1994 (Pusri l1l),
and April 1 995 (Pusri IV) respectively, and would permit full realization of plant
optimization and energy efficiency targets.



- 36 -
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A.    Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Appraisal              Revised  1/            Actual
Item                    Local  Foreign         Local  Foreign         Local  Foreign
Costs  Costs    Total  Costs  Costs   Total  Costs  Costs   Total
PART A: PT KONEBA
Technical assistance    0.2       1.6   1.8   0.2       1.6   1.8   0.2        1.6    1.8
Training                0.1       0.2   0.3   0.1       0.2   0.3   0.1       0.1    0.2
Energy audits and       0.2       1.6   1.8   0.2       1.6   1.8   1.1       0.7    1.8
feasibility studies
Instrumentation                   0.3   0.3             0.3   0.3   0.1       0.1    0.2
Fixtures and vehicles   0.1             0.1    0.1             0.1    0.2             0.2
Operating costs (first  0.7             0.7    0.7             0.7   0.1              0.1
year)
Base cost estimate      1.3       3.7   5.0    1.3      3.7   5.0    1.8      2.4    4.3
Physical contingencies    0.2     0.6   0.8    0.2      0.6   0.8
Price escalation        0.2       0.2   0.4    0.2      0.2   0.4
Working capital         0.2             0.2    0.2             0.2    0.4             0.4
Total component costs    1.9      4.5   6.4    1.9      4.5   6.4   2.2       2.4    4.7
Interest during dev     0.7       1.0   1.7    0.7      1.0   1.7   0.7               0.7
Total financing         2.6       5.5   8.1    2.6      5.5   8.1    3.0      2.4    5.4
required
PART B: PT PUSRI
Engineering services    1.0       3.1   4.1    0.8      3.7   4.5             3.0    3.0
Royalties and license             3.3   3.3             1.8   1.8   0.5       2.5    3.0
fees
Equipment and           0.1       6.6   6.7    8.7    11.0  19.7    5.4    19.1   24.5
materials                                  I                     I
Freight and insurance   0.8       0.8   1.6    2.8             2.8    3.9             3.9
Construction            3.2       0.4   3.6    0.4             0.4   0.4              0.4
Start-up &              0.3       0.2   0.5
commissioning
Base cost estimate      5.4      14.4  19.8   12.7    16.5  29.2   10.2    24.6   34.8
Physical contingencies    0.5     1.4   1.9
Price escalation        0.6       0.7   1.3
Total component cost    6.5      16.5  23.0   12.7    16.5  29.2   10.2    24.6   34.8
Interest during constr.    2.0    3.0   5.0    3.2             3.2    5.4             5.4
Total financing required    8.5   19.5  28.0   15.9    16.5  32.4   15.6    24.6   40.2
Total project financing
required  2/       11.1      25.0  36.1   18.5    22.0  40.5   18.6    27.0   45.6
Comments:
1/    Revised budget for PUSRI component prepared in 1993;
2/    Realization up to December 31, 1992 for KONEBA and September 30, 1993
for PUSRI.
Note: numbers may not add up due to rounding



- 37 -
B.    Project Financing
Appraisal             Revised  1/           Actual
Item                   Local Foreign   Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total
PART A: PT KONEBA
Equity                 2.6       1.0   3.6   2.6       1.0   3.6   3.0      0.0    3.0
IBRD Loan 2879-IND     0.0       4.5   4.5   0.0      4.5   4.5   0.0       2.4    2.4
Subtotal KONEBA        2.6       5.5   8.1   2.6       5.5   8.1   3.0      2.4    5.4
PART B: PT PUSRI
Equity                 8.5       3.0  11.5  13.4      0.0  13.4  13.1       8.4   21.5
IBRD Loan 2879-IND     0.0      16.5  16.5   0.0    16.5  16.5   0.0    16.2   16.2
Japanese Exim Bank     0.0       0.0   0.0   2.5       0.0   2.5   2.5      0.0    2.5
Subtotal PUSRI         8.5      19.5  28.0  15.9    16.5  32.4  15.6    24.6  40.2
Total project financing    11.1  25.0  361 18.5    22.0  40.5  18.6    27.0  45.6
Commenta:
1/    PUSRI revised the project budget in early 1989 which increased project cost
to US$32.4 million including US$3.2 million interest during construction, and
US$2.5 million additional financing from the Japanese Exim Bank.
6.    PrQiect Results
A.   D2irect Benefits
Appraisal         Realized at        Estimated at
Indicators         Estimate          Closing Date     Full Development
PT PUSRI
Energy saving:
PUSRI II            10 percent        5.9 percent         10 percent
PUSRI III           10 percent        5.8 percent         10 percent
PUSRI IV            10 percent        4.7 percent         10 percent
Capacity increase
PUSRI II           20 percent         not realized        20 percent
PUSRI III          20 percent         not realized        20 percent
PUSRI IV           20 percent          1 7 percent        20 percent
Comments:
Due to delays in project implementation PUSRI has not been able to realize the full
benefit of the project. The existing heat exchangers used in the three PUSRI plants
proved to be unable to withstand temperature increase beyond 310C which would
occur if plant load is increased by 20 percent. Figures at closing date are from latest
test results. With new heat exchangers, to be installed in 1994-95, full benefits are
expected to be realized.



_ 38 -
B.    Economic Impact
1.    Economic rate of return
Economic Rate of Return     Appraisal Estimate         PCR Estimate
Part A: PT KONEBA                  N.A.                     N.A.
Part B: PT PUSRI                  49.6%                     24.4%
Assumptionsa:
1.    General, The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is calculated on an
incremental basis using constant 1 993 prices. The project is assumed to have an
economic life of 10 years with no salvage value of investment. PUSRI will generate
incremental revenues from export of incremental surplus of ammonia.
Incremental Ammonia Surplus for Export
1993               1994         1995 - 2003
Ammonia ('000 MT)
Without project
Production                    875                875                875
Converted to                  857                857                 857
urea
Surplus ammonia                 18                 18                  18
With project
Production                    875                902               1,001
Converted to                  857                754                 837
urea
Surplus ammonia                 18                148                 164
Incremental
ammonia surplus                0                130                 146
2.    Main outputs and inputs prices. The Bank's November 2, 1993 commodity
price forecast is used as the basis for price projections. Unit prices of surplus
ammonia are based on FOB export prices. Ammonia prices are maintained at 5
percent higher than urea prices. The economic price of non-exportable gas in 1 992
of US$2.25/mmBtu is used as the starting price for gas price projection. This price
is used in the 1992 gas sector report1/. The projected gas price is assumed to vary
with projected price of fuel oil as assumed at appraisal. A ratio of 7.33 barrels to a
metric ton of crude oil and a fuel oil to crude oil price ratio of 0.75 are assumed.
1993        1995         2000         2003
Urea        US$/mt             104.0        131.9        154.4       151.8
Ammonia     US$/mt             109.2        138.5        162.1        159.4
Crude oil    US$/barrel         15.9         16.2         19.3        19.1
US$/mt            116.5        118.9        141.8        140.1
1/   Indonesia: Sector Report Natural Gas Development Planning Study. July 20, 1992,
Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department 1II, East Asia and Pacific
Region. Report No. 10293-IND.



- 39 -
Fuel oil     US$/mt              87.4         89.2        106.3         105.1
Natural gas   US$/mmBtu           2.2          2.3           2.7          2.7
3.    Urea production. Due to plant conditions, no incremental urea production can
be realized after completion of the ammonia plants. Incremental revenue from urea
can only be realized after completion of PUSRI's urea optimization project, which is
still under implementation when this PCR is prepared.
4.    Capital costs, Economic capital costs of the project is calculated from its
1 993 financial costs prices less duties and taxes, using a conversion factor of 0.64
for the local costs (same as used at appraisal).
5.    Working capital. Increase in working capital is assumed to be negligible.
6.    Operating costs. Operating costs include natural gas and other costs. Other
inputs represent 10 percent of total operating costs. Prices of other inputs are
assumed to have reflected their respective economic prices. Annual insurance and
maintenance costs are assumed at 0.5% and 4.5% of investment costs.
7.    Comments. Higher investment costs, longer implementation period, and
lower output prices as well as lower unit cost of gas savings, as compared to
appraisal estimate, are the main contributors to the lower ERR estimate at PCR than
at appraisal.
2.    Foreign exchange savings of PT PUSRI.
Sale of ammonia and foreign loan inflows (World Bank and Japanese Exim
Bank loans) are taken as foreign exchange inflows, while debt service on those
foreign loans is taken as foreign exchange outflows. Calculated in 1993 prices, PT
PUSRI is expected to realize about US$196 million during the ten years life of the
project (until 2003). Discounted at 1 2 percent, the net present value of the savings
is about US$56 million, lower than appraisal projection of US$62 million.
C.    Financial Impact
1.    Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return    Appraisal Estimate           PCR Estimate
Part A: PT KONEBA                   N.A.                      N.A.
Part B: PT PUSRI                40.8 percent               23.5 percent
Assumptions:
1.    Project life is assumed to be 10 years after energy savings modifications
(1994/95). Salvage value is assumed to be zero at the end of its economic life.
Calculations were prepared in 1 993 constant prices.



- 40 -
2.    Production. unit prices, capital costs. working capital. See assumption
discussed above under economic impact. No conversion factor was applied in
calculating capital costs.
3.    Operating costs. Incremental operating costs include the cost of natural gas
and other costs. The price of natural gas to PUSRI is assumed to be at subsidized
price of US$1.0 per mmBtu in 1 994 and, upon assumed phasing out of the gas
subsidy in 1 995, at economic level thereafter (see assumptions for ERR). Other
input costs are assumed to constitute about 10 percent of total operating costs.
Incremental insurance and maintenance costs represent 5 percent of investment.
4.    Comments. Higher investment costs, longer implementation period, and
lower unit prices for output and gas savings than assumed at appraisal output prices
are the main contributors to the lower FRR estimate at PCR than at appraisal.
7.    Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenants                                Subject      Compliance    Status
GOVERNMENT
* Government shall not take actions with  Financial                  complied
respect to fertilizer sold locally which
would prevent PUSRI, operating efficiently,
from earning reasonable ROA
Part A: KONEBA
* Submit audited financial statements within  Financial  June 30 each  complied
six months after end of fiscal year                  year
. Maintain debt service ratio of at least 1 .5   Financial           no debt
times net revenues                                                 repayment
so far
. Maintain debt/equity ratio of maximum  Financial                   not complied
60/40
 Maintain current ratio of no less than 1.1   Financial             not complied
until 1 2/31/88, 1.2 from 1/1/89 to                                in some
12/31/91 and 1 .3 thereafter                                       years
Part B: PT PUSRI
* PUSRI shall provide, or caused to be   Financial                  complied
provided, funds to enable KONEBA to
carry
out its project activities
. Submit audited financial statements within  Financial  June 30 each  complied
six months after end of fiscal year                  year
. Maintain debt service ratio of at least 1.5   Financial            complied
times net revenues
. Maintain debt/equity ratio of maximum  Financial                   complied
55/45
* Maintain current ratio of no less than 1 .4   Financial            complied



- 41 -
8.    Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle            Final
Through Appraisal                             23.3
Appraisal through Board Approval              81.4
Board Approval through effectiveness            ---
Supervision                                   39.2
Total                                        143.9
B.    Missions
Performance
Stage of                      No. of      Days in   Specialization   Rating
Project Cycle    Month/Year    Persons       Field    Represented      Status
Through Appraisal      10/83          2          10      Fin. Analyst,
Tech. Spec.
03/85          1          NA      Tech. Spec.
05/85          1           6      Fin. Analyst,
Tech. Spec.
07/85          5          20      Fin. Analyst,
Tech. Spec.
Appraisal through      01/86          2           9      Fin. Analyst,
Board Approval                                           Tech. Spec.
05/86          2          11      Fin. Analyst,
Tech. Spec.
Board Approval
through                              ---
Effectiveness
Supervision            06/89         NA          NA      NA                 2
02/91          2           8      Ind. Spec.,        1
Tech. Spec.
03/92          3           5      Ind. Spec.,        2
Tech. Spec.
10/93  a/        1          13      Tech. Spec.
a/    PCR Mission



- 42 -
ANNEX I
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
DOMESTIC AND ECONOMIC ENERGY PRICES
Table 1: Domestic and Economic Prices of Petroleum Products
(1987)
Domestic price   Economic price    Ratio Domestic to
Economic Price
(Rp/liter)       (Rp/liter)           (%)
Aviation turbo          250               257                97
Gasoline super          440               266               166
Gasoline regular        385               255               151
Kerosene                165               279                59
Diesel                  200               283                71
Diesel industr.         200               268                75
Fuel oil                200               171               117
Total average           222               258                86
Table 2: Domestic and Economic Prices of Petroleum Products
(January 1993)
Domestic price   Economic price    Ratio Domestic to
Economic Price
(Rp/liter)       (Rp/liter)           (%)
Gasoline                700               375               187
Kerosene                280               375                75
Auto Diesel             380               375               101
Industrial Diesel       360               350               103
Fuel Oil                240               235               102
Source: Bank staff estimates



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
KONEBA: ORGANIZATION CHART DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SHAREHOLDERS
- P.T. PUSRI       (60%)
- P.T. Pupuk Kujang   (10%)
- P.T. Pupuk Kaltim   (10%)
- P.T. Pupuk Iskandar M (10%)
- P.T. Semen Gresik   (10%)
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
- Prof. Dr. Arismunandar,
DG, MME
- Ir. Suardin, Dir. Prod. PT Pusri
- Ir. Gunawan Suwardi,
Dir. Prod. Pupuk Kaltim
Dr. Ir. Entol Soeparman
(MANAGING DIRECTOR)
Ir. Robert J. Rompis
(DIRECTOR)
A D V I S O R _
ADVISOR        _
ADMINISTRATION              TECHNICAL            BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT   TRAINING & INFORMATION
DIVISION                DIVISION                   DIVISION                DIVISION
MANAGER                 MANAGER                    MANAGER                 MANAGER
{1}      ~~~~~~~~~~~(1)  (1  1)
SECRETARIATE STAFF           ENGINEERS             PERMANENT STAFF          PERMANENT STAFF
(5)                     (7)                        I1)                     (4)
FINANCE STAFF         TEMPORARY STAFF            TEMPORARY STAFF          TEMPORARY STAFF
(4)
TEMPORARY STAFF
Note: Permanent staff levels are shown In brackets



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1/2
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
KONEBA: Overview of Activities. 1988 - 93
A. No. of enterprise audits and studies by sub sectors and ownership of clients
Prel. Energy   Detailed Energy     Enterprise                   Total
Subsector         Audits            Audits           Studies
Public  Private   Public  Private   Public  Private   Public  Private   Total    % of
Total
Energy Producer    5                                                   5-  -             5         6.0
Fertilizer        6         -       5                 6                17       -       17       20.2
Cement            3        3        -                 1                4        3        7         8.3
Mining             1                -        -            -            1        -        1         1.2
Textile           9        4        1                 -                10       4       14        1 6.7
Ceramic            -       4             -        -       -            -        4        4         4.8
Steel              1       4                 2        1                2        6        8         9.5
Vehicle            -       1                          -   -             -       1        1         1.2
Glass              1       1        1        1        1                3        2        5         6.0
Paper             2        4        1        1        1                4        5        9        10.7
Tire               -       1             -        -       -             -       1        1         1.2
Plantation        3         -       -        -        -                3        -        3         3.6
Battery                -        -        -       -        -            -        -        -        -
Building          2        2        1        -        -                3        2        5        6.0
Chemical           1        -       -        -        -                1        -        1         1.2
Plywood            -       1        -        -        -       2                 3        3         3.6
Food                       -        -        -        -        -       -             -        -
Other Metals       -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Total             34       25       9        4       10       2        53       31      84      100.0
B. Percentage distribution of public and private clients
Public  Private   Total
Prel. Audits     58.0    42.0    100.0
Detailed Audits   69.0    31.0    100.0
Studies          83.0    17.0    100.0
Total            63.0    37.0    100.0



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2/2
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
KONEBA: Overview of Activities. 1988 - 93
COMMERCIAL PROJECTS UNDERTAKEN
No              CLIENT              YEAR                   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.  PT Pupuk Kalimantan Timur      1 988   Energy Management Program Kaltim - 1
2.                                 1990   Kaltim-1 Optimization Project
3.                                 1991   Organizational Resources Study
4.  PT Asean Aceh Fertilizer       1988   Energy Management Program Phase - I
5.                                 1989   Energy Management Program Phase - Il
6.                                 1990   Technical Advisory Services
7.                                 1 990   Basic Enginering
8.  PT Pupuk Kujang                1988   Energy Conservation Feasibility Study for Ammonia Plant
9.                                 1990   Ammonia Optimization Project Stage - 1
10.                                 1990   Technical Advisory Services
11.  PT Petrokimia Gresik           1988   Energy Management Program Phase - I
12.                                 1990   Energy Management Program Phase - Il
13.                                 1991   Energy Management Program Phase - IlIl
14.  PT Petrokimia Gresik           1 992   Energy Management Program Phase - IV
15.                                 1990   Technical Advisory for Optimization of TSP Plant
16.                                 1990   Technical Advisory for Bidding Evaluation
17.                                 1992   In-house Training on Energy Management
18.  PT Pupuk Sriwijaya             1989   Energy Management Program Phase I
19.                                 1990   Energy Management Program Phase II
20.                                 1 991   Detailed Energy Audit of PUSRI Building
21.                                 1992   Power System Analysis Study
22.  PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda         1 989   Program Manajemen Energi Phase - I
23.                                 1990   Ammonia and Urea Plant Optimization Project
24.  PT Semen Padang                1991   Vibration Study at Cement Mill Building
25.                                 1991   Optimization Bracing Analysis at Building
26.  PT Kertas Leces                1990   Energy Management Program
27.                                 1991   Feasibility Study on BBM to Bagasse Substitution
28.  PT Krakatau Steel              1992   Energy Management Program
29.  PT Iglas                       1 988   Energy Management Program
30.  PT Perkebunan Xil             1988   Energy Management Program
31.  PT Industri Sandang II         1988   Energy Management Program
32.  PT Growth Sumatera Industry    1989   Energy Management Program
33.  PT Abdi Rakyat Bakti           1989   Energy Management Program
34.  PT INtan Nasional Iron Industry   1989   Energy Management Program
35.  PT Fajar Surya Wisesa          1 992   Energy Audit on Boiler
36.  PT Sarana Trirasa Bakti        1990   Environmental Impact Assessment Study
37.  PT Jati Purna Mahakam          1990   Environmental Impact Assessment Study
38.  AEEMTRC                        1991   Training on Energy Management and Cogeneration
39.                                 1992   Training on Energy Efficiency and Instrumentation
40.                                         Aspect in Commercial and Industrial Building
Asean Inst.Technology, Thailand  1991   First Training on Rational Use Energy in Industry
41.                                 1992   Second Training on Rational Use Energy in Industry
42.  GTZ - Project                  1991   Cogeneration Study in Indonesia
43.  European Community             1992   EC-ASEAN Conegeration Programme
44.  Ditjen Listrik & Pengemb. Energi  1 993   Training for Trainer on Energy Conservation Technique
45.  Urea Casale                    1993   Casale Seminar on Ammonia and Urea Technology



- 46 -
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT                                ANNEX 4
PT KONSERVASI ENERGI ABADI - INCOME STATEMENT                                   Page 1/3
12          2         2     121       1992
in current BP. Million
REVENUES
Energy audit and feasibility             137.0    767.9   1,747.1    787.1    674.6
Seminars and trainings                     0.0       0.0      3.0      46.5    142.8
Total revenues                        137.0    767.9   1,750.1    833.5    817.4
OPERATING EXPENSES
Energy audit and feasibility              81.2    168.8    626.5    166.5    526.3
Seminar, publication, and other promotion  5.6      44.8     22.0      37.8    152.9
Personnel                                391.9    588.5    704.5    768.3    689.9
Administration and general                55.0      69.7    122.5    125.1    111.5
Office rental and utilities              243.4    250.3    161.8    140.5    146.7
Consultant services                        2.6      18.8     16.8      16.9       3.3
Entertainment                             13.5      12.5     32.3      20.2      29.6
Depreciation and amortization             47.1      62.3     82.2      92.1    842.7
Others                                    18.0       2.5      9.1       1.6      33.9
Total operating expenses              858.2   1,218.1   1,777.8   1,368.9  2,536.6
OPERATING INCOME/LOSS                       (721.3)  (450.2)    (27.6)   (535.4) (1,719.2)
FINANCIAL CHARGES                             (0. )     (1.2)    (2.8)     (3.0)  (523.5)
OTHER INCOME/EXPENSES                        132.4     72.2    126.8    180.3    163.0
NET INCOME/LOSS                             (588.9)  (379.2)    96.4   (358.1) (2,079.6)
Sources: PT Koneba's auditedfinancial statements, 1987-92
PTKoneba's annual operation evaluation report, 1987-92



- 47 -
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT                                 ANNEX 4
PT KONSERVASI ENERGI ABADI - BALANCE SHEET                                     Page 2/3
ASSES                                                    incurrent BQMilin
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and time deposits                847.9    608.5    571.2    761.8   1,492.2   1,176.9
Trade receivables                     280.3    225.3    439.1    531.5    242.7    439.1
Prepayments                            41.9       5.5    136.8    156.1    170.7        57.9
Total curent assets             1,170.0    839.3   1,147.1   1,449.5   1,905.6   1,673.8
FIXED ASSETS
Vehicles                              130.4    147.9    148.2    148.2    148.2    281.0
Furnitures and fixtures                36.3    116.2    216.7    302.6    315.7    315.6
Less: Accumulated Depreciation         (8.6)    (55.7)   (118.0)   (200.2)   (292.4)   (396.5)
Net fixed assets                  158.1    208.4    246.8    250.5    171.5    200.1
DEFERRED CHARGES
Technical assistance                  371.8   1,703.3   2,693.4   3,428.3   4,233.0   3,438.3
Others                                150.3    354.0    720.7   1,111.9   1,675.6   1,731.7
522.1   2,057.3   3,414.1   4,540.2   5,908.6   5,170.0
TOTAL ASSETS                         1,850.2   3,105.0   4,808.0   6,240.1   7,985.6   7,044.0
SAHrrLAN1IY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                      490.5    977.7   1,012.6    777.0    856.1    763.6
Current portion of long-term debts      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    914.3
Total current liabilities         490.5    977.7   1,012.6    777.0    856.1   1,677.9
LONG-TERM DEBTS
Two-step loan from World Bank           0.0   1,356.5   2,519.8   3,281.2   5,022.2   6,131.2
Less: current portion                   0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0   (914.3)
Total long-term debts               0.0   1,356.5   2,519.8   3,281.2   5,022.2   5,216.9
SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
Paid-up capital                     1,359.8   1,359.8   2,243.8   3,053.8   3,337.3   3,458.8
Retained earnings (Loss)                0.0   (588.9)  (968.2)   (871.8) (1,229.9) (3,309.6)
Total shareholder's equity      1,359.8    770.8   1,275.6   2,182.0   2,107.4    149.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY            1,850.3  3,105.0   4,808.0   6,240.1   7,985.6   7,044.0
Financairatios
Current ratio                       2.4      0.9       1.1       1.9      2.2       1.0
Long-term debt to equity ratio    0/100    60/40    70/30      60/40     70/30      97/3
Total debt to equity ratio        30/70    80/20    70/30      70/30     70/30      98/2
Source: PTKoneba's auditedfinancial statements, 1987-92



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3/3
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
PT KONSERVASI ENERGI ABADI - SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT
17  1988      1212     1220      1921     1922
in current R. Million
SOURCES
Net income after tax                       0.0   (588.9)  (379.2)    96.4   (358.1) (2,079.7)
Depreciation                               8.6     47.1      62.3     82.2      92.1    842.7
Internal cash generation               8.6   (541.9)  (316.9)    178.6   (266.0) (1,237.0)
Long-term loans                            0.0   1,356.5  1,163.3    761.4   1,741.0    194.7
Equity share
PT Pupuk Sriwijaya                   815.9      0.0    530.4    656.1        0.0     72.9
PT Pupuk Kujang                      136.0      0.0      88.4     38.5      70.9     12.2
PT Pupuk Kaltim                      136.0      0.0      88.4     38.5      70.9     12.2
PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda               136.0      0.0      88.4     38.5      70.9     12.2
PT Petrokimia Gresik                 136.0      0.0      88.4     38.5      70.9     12.2
Total sources                 1,368.3    814.6   1,730.4  1,750.0   1,758.5   (920.8)
APPLICATION
Acquisition of fixed assets              166.7     97.3    100.8      85.9      13.0    132.9
Additional deferred charges
Technical assistance                 371.8   1,331.5    990.1    734.9    804.8       0.0
Other                                150.3    203.7    366.7    391.2    563.7        0.0
Change in working capital                679.5   (817.9)   272.9    538.0    377.1  (1,053.6)
Total applications            1,368.3    814.7   1,730.4  1,750.0   1,758.5   (920.8)
Source: PTKoneba's auditedfinancial statements, 198 7-92



- 49 -
ANNEFX 5
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Overview of Bank-financed Consulting Assignments
Assignment               Company or         Country     Staff     Cost
Consultant                   Weeks  (US$ '000)
KONEBA Component
Designing and implementing a    RCG/Hagler, Baily, Inc.  USA        448      1,453
long-term energy demand man-  (incl. R.O. Neale)
agement program for KONEBA
Energy auditing expert       Dr. Nalin Walpita     Sri Lanka         60         40
Advising on energy conservation  Don R. Wagonner    USA              28         79
in fertilizer industry
Ammonia optimization         Keith Stokes           USA              14         85
Ammonia optimization          Dr. John Livingstone    UK             55        309
(incl. 0. Bartele)
Steel industry advisor       J. Jaffe and W. O'Neil  UK/USA
Subtotal        605      1,966
PUSRI Component
Optimizing the ammonia-plant   ICI Process Plant    UK            N.A.       2,621
Il, IlIl and IV of the PUSRI  Service Ltd.                     (lumpsum)
complex in Palembang, Sumatra                                           l
Subtotal          0 |   2,621



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
PUSRI: PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
PROJECT DIRECTOR
ITECHNICAL DIRECTOR)
PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT CONTROL
I ADVISOR I
PROCUREMENT   I      ENGINEERING          ADMINISTRATOR 1    CONSTRUCTION
MANAGER     I       MANAGER          I                        MANAGER
PURCHASING        PROCESS &           ELECTRICAL &            FINANCE
SYSTEM             INSTRUMENT  |_I_                  I
INSPECTION &        CIVIL &             MACHINE &          ACCOUNTANCY 1
EXPEDITION      CONSTRUCTION        SPEC. EQUIPMENT
WARE HOUSE       MECHANICAL                               GENERAL AFFAIRS 1
& MATERIAL,          AND                              L       SECRETARY &
INSPECT           PIPING                                   SECURITY



INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
A. PUSRI: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ACCORDING TO APPRAISAL
1986              1987                           1988                                   1989                                    1990                       1991
1 8 9 10 11 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 1 2 3 4 5 6
Preparatory Activities_______                                        ____ __________
Process design, 1,III l/IV                      _______                                                                                                                                      ______
Analytical design, Il, hIII/IV_____                                                                                                                                                          _______
Detailed design, II, III/IV________
Procurement, 1I
Pre-shutdown constr. II
Final tie-in II 
Procurement, IV-
Pre-shutdown constr., IV                          ______                                                                                              _______ _____ ______
Final  tie-in,  IV                      _ _                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _ _ _-
Procurement, III 
Pre-shutdown constr., III                       ____________________
Final   tie-in,   III                                                 _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _      _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _     _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _   _   _ _  _ _ _  _ _
B. PUSRI: ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
DESCRIPTION                               1989                                    1990                                  1991                                    1992                19931
34 56 7 89 10 11 1 12 34 56 7 8910111 12 34 56 7 89 10111 12 34 56 7 8910111I1   3
Evaluation Study                    ________________________
Process Design Package-
Basic   Engineering__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Detail Engineering                  ___________
Procurement
Construction--
a. Piling Work-
b. DCS Installation                                                 _____________
c. Install Internal Con. P-4                                                                                                                                                                                                           >
d. Foundation Work
a. Equipment Erection
f. Piping Fabric. & Erection-
g. Final Tie-in/Turnaround: P 11- 
P   III                                                                          _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _     -
P   IV                                                                          _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _   _    
Test-Runs:
a. Preliminary Test Run________________ ___________
D CS-
*P-4 Ammonia Converterl-
b. PUSRI 11 
c.  PUSRI  IllII__                            _  _  _  __   _  _    
d. PUSRI IV 



- 52 -
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT                                   ANNEX 8
PT PUPUK SRIWIJAYA - INCOME STATEMENT                                       Page 1/3
198        12        128       199       191        ff
REVENUES                                                in current  l. Billion
Production uniL
Urea                           160.0       162.3    191.1    220.3    262.8    256.6
Ammonia                          8.8        11.8      12.9      6.3       4.3       6.1
Total production unit revenue    168.8   174.2    204.0    226.6    267.0    262.7
Marketing unit:
Urea                           299.4       375.3    439.7    509.3    593.5    701.1
Other                          231.4       302.6    370.3    458.3    532.6    603.5
Handling fee                     5.5         5.8       5.9      6.3       5.4       6.2
Total marketing unit revenue    536.2   683.7    815.9    973.9   1,131.5   1,310.8
Total revenue                  705.1       857.9   1,019.8   1,200.5   1,398.5   1,573.5
OPERATING EXPENSES                    695.1      840.8    959.7   1,156.6   1,334.8   1,493.7
Production uniL
Costs of goods sold            178.0 *    168.0    162.6    168.0    178.6    196.1
General and administration                  20.3      19.8     19.0      25.6      28.4
Selling expenses                                      0.5       1.0       1.1       1.1
Marketing unit:
Costs of goods sold            330.1       438.3    572.2    718.0    820.9    953.8
Regional marketing expenses     71.8        98.3    104.6    115.3    107.9    130.7
Corporate marketing expenses   115.2        74.5     83.6    115.7    175.7    156.7
General and administration                  12.7      16.5     19.5      25.1      27.0
Total operating expenses       695.1       812.1    959.7   1,156.6   1,334.8   1,493.8
OPERATING INCOME                       10.0        45.8     60.1      43.8      63.7     79.8
OTHER INCOME/EXPENSES                  60.9        53.6     54.5      70.5    104.4    114.0
OPERATING INCOME AFTER
OTHER INCOME/EXPENSES                  70.8        99.3    114.7    114.4    168.1    193.8
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES    (17.2)              (21.8)   (20.3)    (21.0)    (56.1)    (74.8)
NET INCOME AFTER TAX                   53.7        77.5     94.4      93.4    112.0    119.0
Note: * includes allocation of General & Administration expenses.
Source: PT Pusri's audited financial statements, 1987-92



- 53 -
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT                                  ANNEX 8
PT PUPUK SRIWIJAYA - BALANCE SHEET                                        Page 2/3
1l97     198       198      122       199       122
ASSETS                                                   in current R,;. Billion
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash andnearcash assets               385.0    416.0    445.4    510.5    510.3    606.0
Trade receivables                      95.4      94.9     57.8      97.0      76.1     66.4
Non-trade receivables                  59.8      59.2     63.9      69.3      25.3     26.7
Inventories                           126.2    139.6    189.4    275.5    180.2    188.9
Total curent assets               666.3    709.6    756.5    952.2    792.0    888.0
INVESTMENTS
PT Koneba                               0.8       0.8      1.3       1.8       2.0      0.0
Other                                  23.6      23.6     23.6      28.7      36.3     37.4
Total investments                  24.4     24.4      25.0      30.5     38.3      37.4
FIXED ASSETS
Land                                    8.2       8.5      8.4       8.5       8.7     11.4
Property, Plant & Equipment           658.2    636.1    650.3    677.6    687.4    720.5
Less: Accumulated Depreciation       (388.2)   (404.8)  (440.4)   (474.9)   (500.2)   (529.9)
Netfixedassets                   278.2    239.7    218.3    211.2    195.8    202.0
CONSTRUCTION IN PROGRESS                   10.1      8.6      13.1      58.4    264.8    641.8
OTHERASSETS(Net)                            4.4      6.6      19.3      31.4     39.8      44.7
TOTAL ASSETS                          983.3    989.0   1,032.1   1,283.7   1,330.7   1,813.8
LIAfIUMS AND QUIY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                      308.7    284.9    297.5    533.8    386.3    582.8
Current portion of long-term debts     35.7      22.1     15.7       9.5       2.1      1.5
Total current liabilities         344.5    306.9    313.2    543.3    388.4    584.4
LONG-TERM DEBTS
Foreign creditors                      86.8      65.1     51.2      48.6    104.3    378.2
Domestic creditors                      8.3       4.6      1.7       1.1       0.6      0.0
Less:currentportion                   (35.7)    (22.1)    (15.7)    (9.5)    (2.1)      (1.5)
Total long-term debts              59.3     47.5      37.1      40.2    102.7    376.7
OTHER LIABILITIES                           9.1      5.5       2.9       0.4     39.4      13.1
UNDETERMINED STATUS OF
GOVERNMENT EQUITY SHARE                     0.0      0.0       0.0      32.0     51.1      51.1
SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
Paid-up capital                       261.0    261.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0
Retained earnings                     309.5    368.0    178.9    167.8    249.2    288.6
Total shareholder's equity        570.5    629.0    678.9    667.8    749.2    788.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY              983.3    989.0   1,032.    1,283.7   1,330.7   1,813.8
Financial ratios
Current ratio                           1.9       2.3      2.4       1.8       2.0      1.5
Long-term debt to equity                9/91     7/93      5/95     6/94     12/88     32/68
Source: PT Pusri's auditedfinancial statements, 198 7-92



- 54 -
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT                                    ANNEX 8
PT PUPUK SRIWIJAYA - SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT    Page 3/3
1Z          19m         198         1990        1991        12
in curren   Billion
SOURCES
Net income after tax                               53.7        77.5        94.4        93.3       112.0        119.5
Depreciation                                      122.0        16.6        38.7        34.5        62.0        63.1
Internal cash generation                      175.7       94.1        133.1       127.8       174.0       182.7
Long-term loans                                     0.0         0.0         5.2        13.1        69.7       275.5
Other (incl. asset revaluation & equity share)    157.7        (4.1)        3.0        38.7        58.3         0.0
Total sources                            333.4        90.0       141.3        179.6       302.0       458.1
APLICATIONS
Increase in fixed assets                         240.3        (21.7)       32.8        39.5        55.0        74.1
Projectunderconstruction                            6.1        (1.4)        3.7        45.3       206.4       377.0
Increase in working capital                       45.6         84.1        40.6       (34.3)       (5.3)      (100.0)
Investment                                         0.8          0.0         0.5         5.6         7.8          1.2
Long-term debt service                            37.9         11.8        15.7        10.0         7.2          1.5
Dividends                                           5.9        19.3        38.7        66.1        46.6        52.6
Bonus payment                                       0.0         0.0         4.5         7.0        12.7         14.6
Other                                              (3.2)       (2.0)        4.9        40.5       (28.4)       37.1
Total applications                       333.4        90.0       141.3        179.6       302.0       458.1
CurentportionofMLTDebts                           35.7         22.1        15.7         9.5         2.1          1.5
Long-term debt service coverage (principal)        4.9 x        4.3 x       8.5 x      13.5 x      83.7 x      119.4 x
Source: PTPusri's auditedfinancial statements, 1987-92



