DocumenL of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
. . . ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    1AZ
Report No. 5959-IID
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
September 16, 1987
Asia Country- Department V
This document has a resticted distnrbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offical duties. Its contents ma!y not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- -~~~~~~~5
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00               Rupiah (Rp) 1,650
Rp I million          US$606.87
(as of September 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI     April 1 - March 31
KONEBA: January 1 - December 31
PUSRI   January 1 - December 31
WEIGHT'jq AND MEASURES
1 Barrel (bbl) of Crude
Oil (0.85 Specific
Gravity/340 API)                 0.136 Metric Ton (t)
1 bbl                         =    0.159 Cubic Meter (m3)
1 British Thermal Unit (Btu)  =    0.252 Kilocalories (Kcal)
1 Cubic Foot (cu ft)          =    0.028 Cubic Meter (m3)
1 Metric Ton of Crude Oil     =    44.4 x 106 Btu
1 SLandard Cubic Foot
(SCF) of Natural Gas       =    1,000 Btu
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe) =    10.415 x 106 Kcal
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAKOREN          -       National Energy Coordinating Board
BAPPENAS         -       National Development Planning Agency
bpd              -       barrels per day
boe              -       barrels of oil equivalent
KONEBA           -       P. T. Konservasi Energi Abadi (Energy Conservation
Center)
GOI              -       Government of Indonesia
LNG              -       Liquified Natural Gas
LPG              -       Liquified Petroleum Gas
mmBtu            -       million Btu
MmE              -       Ministry of Mines and Energy
MW               -        megawatt
PERTAMINA        -       National Oil Company
PGN              -       Perusanaan Umum Gas Negara (National Gas Company)
PLN              -       Perusahaan Umum Listrick Negara (Natioral
Electricity Company)
PME              -       Permanent Energy Assessment Committee
PTE              -       Technical Committee on Energy Resources
PUSRI            -       P. T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
REPELITA IV      -       Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1984-89
TCF              -       trillion cubic feet
tpd              -       tons per day
tpy              -       tons per year



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:         US$21.0 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate.
On-Lending      For the PUSRI Energy Efficiency component, the Government
Terms:         will onlend US$16.5 million to PUSRI for 10 years,
including 4 years of grace at an onlending rate of 13.5%
which is positive in real terms. For the Energy
Conservation component, GOI will onlend US$4.5 million to
KONEBA (the Energy Conservation Center) for 15 years,
including 5 years of grace at an onlending rate of 13.5%.
The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proj ect
Description:   The Project will assist the Government in establishing the
institutional framework and policies for planning, pronot-
ing, coordinating, implementing and monitoring energy
conservation activities. The Project will, in parallel,
provide a demonstration of the benefits of energy conserva-
tion in industry through the implementation of energy
efficiency schemes in large fertilizer plants.
The proposed Project includes: (a) the establishment of an
Energy Conservation Center to assist the industrial sector
to realize the substantial potential for reducing energy
costs through conservation and rationalization activities;
and (b) the implementation of specific energy efficiency
investments aimed at reducing current energy use and
optimizing production capacity in three ammonia units
operated by PUSRI, the largest nitrogenous fertilizer
producer in Indonesia. The establishment of the Center
would help Indonesia to tap the substantial potential
demand for energy conservation services in the industrial
sector and would complement the Government's efforto to
promote energy conservation through appropriate incentives,
including a realistic energy pricing policy.
Risks:          The technical, financial and commercial risks associated
with the Project are minimai. The energy conservation mea-
sures that would be implemented by the Center and PUSRI are
based on proven technolog
This document has a resrited distrbution and may be ued by nripients only in the perfonrane
of th  offed duties. Its contents may not otherwe be diclosed without Wodd Bank autho=b I



- iir -
administrative requirements for establishment of the Center
have been completed with the incorporation of a new
company in January 1987, P. T. Konservasi Energi Abadi
(KONEBA), to be operated as an autonomous commercial
entity. This removes the risk of further Implementation
delays resulting from bureaucratic processes. There is,
however, a risk of KONEBA not being able to realize fully
the huge potential for energy savings in Indonesia's
industrial sector, since its ability to do so will depend
much on the effectiveness of both the promotional campaign
that KONEBA will undertake and on the technical assistance
that it will provide to industries. KONEBA's organization
and work program have been formulated around sich
considerations. Risks associated with the PUSRI energy
efficiency component are minimal; PUSRI has an impressive
record of efficiency in commissioning and implementing
complex fertilizer projects.
Estimated Costs:                           Foreign     Local a/  Total
(!S$ million equirvalent)
KONEBA Energy Conservation Center:
Technical Assistance             1.6      0.2      1.8
Tralning                         0.2      0.1      0.3
Energy Audits and
Feasibility Studie;.          1.6       0.2      1.8
Equipment                        0.3      0.1      0.4
Operating Costs                 -         0.7      0.7
Working Capital                 -         0.2      0.2
Sub-total                    T1.5               5.2
PUSRI Energy Efficiency:
Engineering Services             3.1      1.0      4.1
Royalties and License Fees       3.3      -        3.3
Equipment and Materials          7.4      0.9      8.3
Construction                    0.4       3.2      3.6
Start-up and Commissioning      0.2       0.3      0.5
Sub-total                   14.4       5.4     19.8
Total Base Costs                     18.1      6.9     25.0
Physical and Price
Contingencies                             2.9      1.5      4.4
Total Project Costs  -                       21.0      8.4     29.4
Interest During Construction                  4.0      2.7      6.7
Total Financing Required                     25.0     11.1     36.1
a/ Includes applicable local taxes and duties amounting to about US$0.9
million (Rp 1.5 billion) which have been included in the local cost
component.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                     Foreign    Local       Total   z
(USSmillion equivalent)
Debt:
IBRD                              21.0         -         21.0   58
Equity:
PUSRI and Other Shareholders
- For KONEBA Energy Conservation
center Component                1.0        2.6        3.6    10
PUSRI
- For PUSRI Energy
Efficiency Component            3.0        8.5        11.5    32
Subtotal                     4.0       11.1        15.1    42
Total Financing                     25.0        11.1       36.1   100
Estimated Disbursements:
Bark FY               1988   1989   1990   1991    1992    1993
- -(US$ million equivalent)-
Annual                 3.1    8.7    7.0    1.5     0.5      0.2
Cumulative             3.1   11.8   18.n   20.3    20.8    21.0
Economic Rate of Return: 50Z for the PUSRI Energy Efficiency Component.
Map: IBRD-19366R



o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .'
1-""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              : 



v 
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION  I*.......................................        1
II.   ENERGY CONSUMPTION. RESOURCES AND CONSERVATION
POLICY  I.**.........................................        1
A.   Background   .................................            1
B.   Energy Consumption                                        3
C.   Energy Resources and Supply .....................         5
D.   Energy Conservation Policy, Activities and
Institutions                                           7
E.   Potential for Energy Savings ....................         8
III.  THE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY ...--.-...---..-...---.....    10
A.   Fertilizer Consumption Trends                            10
B.   Fertilizer Distribution and Pricing .............        11
C.   Production Performance           ........                12
D.   P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI) .................          12
E.   Bank Experience with Past Lending
in the Fertilizer Sector                              14
IV.   THE PROJECT                                                   15
A.   Project Objectives and Scope                             15
B.   Rationale for Bank Involvement ..................        15
C.   Project Description                                      16
1.   Energy Conservation Center Component .......       16
2.   PUSRI Energy Efficiency and Capacity
Optimization Component                            20
D.   Environmental Aspects            ........                21
This report has been prepared by Ms. P. Urbano and Mr. R. Ghozali of the
Industry Department following appraisal in May 1985 and post-appraisal in
January 1986. Mesdames C. Lawrence, M. Greaves, A. Johnson and E. George
provided secretarial and word processing assistance in the preparation of
the report.



-vi -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS    ...................* .................   21
A.  Project Cost Estimate ..0006.......es.e ..s...s....    21
B.   Financing Plan .        .................................  22
Co  Procurement                   .....................     24
D.   Disbursements and Allocation of Bank Loan .......      24
VI. STATUS OF PREPARATION; PROJECT MANAGEMENT,
IMPLEMENTAIION AND RISKS         .........................    26
A.   Status of Preparation  ....**....    .................    26
B.  Project Management, Implementation and
Monitoring ...............................           26
C.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements .............o    27
D.  Project Risks .......................-..*..........     28
VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES OF PUSRI
ENERGY EFFICIENCY COMPONENT .................e.......    28
A.  Financial Analysis          .............................    28
B.  Economic Analysis                ....                   30
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................    32
A.  Agreements ......................................       32
B. * ecommendations         ............ ................... .    33
ANNEXES
2-1   Domestic and Economic Prices of Petroleum Products
2-2 Effective Demand for Energy Conservation Services in Large
Industrial plants
4-1   Identified Industries and Plants for Energy Audits and Feasibility
Studies
4-2   Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services for the Energy
Conservation Center
4-3   Energy Conservation Center - Projected Financial Statements
5-1   Detailed Cost Estimates
5-2   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
5-3   Bank Loan Allocation
7-1 Assumptions Used for Financial Analysis
7-2 PUSKI - Historical Financial Statements
7-3   PUSRI - Projected Financial Statements
7-4  PUSRI - Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams for Financial
Rate of Return Calculations



- vii -
ANNEXES (Continued)
7-5   Assumptions Used for Economic Analysis
7-6   PUSRI - Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic
Rate of Return Calculations
7-7   Estimated Foreign Exchange Savings
CHARTS
1     Energy Conservation Center - Organization Chart
2     PUSRI Energy Efficiency and Capacity Optimization Component -
Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD-19366R- Location of Fertilizer Plants
DOCUMENTS AVATTARLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference                      Title, Author/s and Date
A       Energy Conservation in Indonesia (Phase I), Trans Energ
(France), June 1985.
B       Ammonia Plant Energy Efficiency and Capacity Optimization
Study, M. W. Kellogg (Houston, Texas), August 1984.
C       Project Proposal for Optimization of Energy Efficiency and
Production Capacity of PUSRI II, III and IV Ammonia Units,
P. T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (Indonesia), December 1984.
D       Indonesia - Industrial Energy Conservation Center, Bruce
Applebaum (Hagler, Bailly & Co., Washington, DC), September
1985.
E       Indonesia - Industrial Energy Conservation Project: PUSRI
Component, Erkal Sanigok, September 1985
F       Indonesia - Industrial Energy Conservation Project:
Feasibility Studies Component, Erkal Sanigok, September 1985.
G       Indonesia - Industrial Energy Conservation Project:  Demand for
Energy Conservation, Jorge Fernandez, February 1986.



1'72



INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance
for the financing and implementation of an Industrial Energy Conservation
Project (the Project). The Project will assist GOI in establishing the
institutional framework and policies for planning, promoting, coordinating,
implementing and monitoring energy conservation activities. The Project
will, in parallel, demonstrate the benefits of energy conservation in
industry through the implementation of energy efficiency investments in
PUSRI, the largest nitrogen fertilizer producer in Indonesia.
1.02      The Project originated from the 1981 UNDPIWorld Bank assessment
of Indonesia's energy sector which highlighted the need for GOI to, among
others, formulate energy pricing policies and promote programs and
technologies that would induce more efficient energy use and stimulate
interfuel substitution. While significant progress has been achieved in
the area of energy pricing, the development and implementation of
complementary measures to spur energy conservation have lagged behind. The
Government is now developing a comprehensive energy rationalization program
and has recognized the need for an Energy Conservation Center to implement
this program. The proposed Project is designed to assist GOI in this
effort, and help the industrial sector, which is the largest consumer of
commercial energy, realize the large potential for energy savings and make
an inroad towards achieving international competitiveness.
II. ENERGY CONSUMPTION, RESOURCES AND CONSERVATION POLICY
A.   Background
2.01      Indonesia is endowed with abundant and diversified energy
resources which include oil, gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy.
The energy sector plays a key role in Indonesia's economic development,
providing about 50% of the country's foreign exchange earnings (1986/87)
through oil and liquified natural gas (LNG) exports. The surplus of oil
available for export, however, has declined in recent years. This is due
in part to lower oil production and to the slow development of non-oil
energy resources which could substitute for domestic oil consumption.
2.02      In February/March 1981, a UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment
Mission visited Indonesia. Its findings'! highlighted the need to:(i)
explore and develop the country's large non-oil energy resources (gas,
coal, hydropower, etc.) as substitutes for oil in the domestic market to
1/   Indonesia:  Issues and Options in the Energ  Sector (Report No.
3543-IND), November 1981. A status report (Activity Completion Report
No. 022/84) was issued in September 1984.



-2-
save oil for export; (ii) assess the substitution potential among fuels for
specific end-uses; (iii) formulate energy pricing policies and develop
programs and technologies required to promote more efficient energy use and
stimulate interfuel substitution; and (iv) establish appropriate institu-
tional mechanisms for national and subsector energy planning, including
manpower development programs.
2.03      Energy resource diversification and utilization efficiency have
since become the cornerstones of the Government's energy policy. With Bank
assistance, GOI has embarked on a coal development program which consists
of exploration and development projects, coal basin studies, and a manpower
development study for the coal sector. Extensive hydro resource survey
work has been carried out, also with Bank assistance, to develop a larger
inventory of hydro projects that would allow systematic exploitation of
Indonesia's large hydropower potential.
2.04      In spite of the pot..ntially large economic benefits that could be
derived from expanded natural gas consumption, progress in this area has
been slow. The Government is now reviewing its policy in relation to
natural gas utilization in the light of apparentlv limited further opportu-
nities in the LNG market and the continuation of new gas discoveries. To
assist GOI in this process, IDA financed (Credit 898-IND) the execution of
three studies intended to provide guidance in designing an appropriate
investment strategy and policy framework for the gas sector. A city gas
distribution project (Loan 2690-IND), which was approved for Bank financing
recently, proceeded from one of these studies, and would involve the
rehabilitation of existing gas distribution networks and the conversion
from liquid petroleum products to natural gas of industrial and commercial
entities located in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan.
2.05      Significant improvements have also been achieved in the area of
energy pricing. Over the last four years, the Government has adjusted the
domestic prices of petroleum fuels, which account for about 80% of total
commercial energy consumption, with nominal average increases of 60% in
1982, 60% in 1983, and 35% in 1984. A further value-added tax of 10% was
introduced in April 1985 on all fuels. However, in response to the decline
in international oil prices, and in an attempt to improve the competitive-
ness of the corporate sector, Government decided in July 1986 to decrease
the price of selected petroleum products (aviation gas, diesel oil and fuel
oil). The recent price adjustment translates into an average nominal
decrease of 8% in petroleum fuel prices. Nonetheless, domestic prices of
petroleum products, except for kerosene and diesel oil are close to
international price levels (Annex 2-1). Electricity tariffs were increased
by over 200% on average between 1981 and 1984, and until the recent
devaluation, they were comparable to those prevailing in the region.
Further increases are now under discussion with the Government to bring
tariffs more into line with estimated long-run marginal costs. Current gas
prices to consumers, on the other hand, are set close to the energy
equivalent prices of substitute fuels. Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara (PGN),
the state gas company, sells gas at US$3.0/rmmBtu, which is between the
energy equivalent domestic price of keroserne and that of diesel and fuel
oil.



-3-
2.06      Current gas prices to consumers are set close to the energy
equivalent prices of substitute fuels. There is, at the moment, relatively
little differentiation in the pricing of gas in relation to sales
quantities, with a range of only 1OZ between the smallest and largest
users. The Government finds it difficult to identifv clear and rational
mechanisms to set producer and consumer prices of natural gas and resolve
the difficult linkage and substitution problems in pricing the various
forms of energy available. In connection with the gas distribution project
mentioned earlier (para 2.04), the Bank would support GOI's efforts to lay
sound economic foundations to its overall energy pricing policy.
B.   Energy Consumption
2.07      Level and Structure of Consumption.  Total commercial energy
demand increased by 3Z p.a., from 27 million tons of oil equivalent (toe)
in 1981 to 30 million toe in 1984. This growth rate represents a marked
change from an average rate of 12% p.a. during the 1970s. The lower growth
rate resulted mainly from lower petroleum consumption, and may be
attribured to substantial increases in petroleuwl product prices and less
rapid rates of economic growth.
-2.08     The industrial, household/services and transport sectors are the
largest single consumers of commercial energy, as shown below:
Commercial Energy Consumption by
Economic Sector and Type of Energy, 1984
(in million toe)
Natural            Elect.
Oil      Gas       Coal    Power a/  Total   (Z)
Agriculture                 0.6       -          -       -         0.6     2.0
Mining                      0.8       -          -       -         0.8     2.6
Industry                   4.3       5.1        0.2     0.9      10.5    34.7
Construction                0.3       -          -       -         0.3     1.0
Household & Services        7.0       -          -      1.7        8.7    28.7
Transport                   6.9       -          -       -         6.9    22.8
Others                      2.5                  -       -         2.5     8.2
Total           22.4       5.1        0.2     2.6      30.3   100.0
Percent (Z)                73.9     16.8        0.7     8.6     100.0
a/ PLN-supplied.
Sources: Ministry of Mines and Energy, staff estimates.
2.09      Indonesia's energy consumption is concentrated heavily on oil.
In 1984, 74% of the total commercial energy used was in the form of oil,



-4-
while only 17X was in gas. In addition, a substantial part of the 9%
contributed by the electrical power utility PLN is Itself based on oil.
The transport and household/services sectors each accounted for 31Z of
total oil consumption, and industry for 19%. Natural gas was used
primarily for LNG exports with the balance going to industry, i.e.,
fertilizer, cement, iron and steel industries. To ensure continuatton of
oil export earnings by developing other indigenous energy resources for
domestic use (particularly natural gas which is in abundance), GOI, with
Bank assistance, is now actively pursuing a program of energy
diversification and substitution (paras 2.03 and 2.04).
2.10      Energy Consumption in Industry.  Total industrial consumption of
commercial energy amounted to 10.5 million toe in 1984, as shown in the
following table.
Industrial Consumption of Commercial Energy, 1984
(in million toe)
Natural            Elect.
Oil      Gas       Coal    Power    Total    Z
Energy-Intensive
Industries:
Fertilizer             0.1       1.9       -       -         2.0     19
Iron & Steel           0.2       0.4       -       -         0.6      6
Cement                 0.8       0.3       0.2     -         1.3     12
Subtotal          1.1       2.6       0.2     -         3.9     37
Non-Energy-Intensive
Industries:
Intermediate &
Capital Goodsa/       0.7       -         -       0.1       0.8      8
Consumer GoodsW/       1.8      -          -       0.2       2.0     19
Subtotal          2.5      -          -       0.3       2.8     27
Energy Producing
Industries                 0.7       2.5       -       0.6       3.8     36
Total Consumption            4.3      5.1       0.2      0.9     1o.5    100
Percent (%)                   41       49          2       8      100
_/   Wood, pulp and paper, basic chemicals, and metal products.
b/   Food, beverages and tobacco, textiles, and building materials.
Sources: Ministry of Mines & Energy, staff estimates.
Of the 10.5 million toe, 3.9 million toe (37%) was consumed in energy-
intensive industries (fertilizers, iron and steel, cement), 2.8 million toe
(27%) in non-energy-intensive industries (pulp and paper, textiles, basic
chemicals, building materials) and 3.8 million toe (36%) in energy
producing industries (refineries and LNG/LPG plants). The fertilizer,
cement, textile, and iron and steel industries were the largest single
users. Forty-one percent of commercial energy used in industry was in the
form of oil, of which most was consumed in the cement and textile



-5-
industries. Natural gas formed 49% of industrial energy use, of which the
bulk was consumed in the fertilizer industry. Nearly half of industrial
energy consumption was used to generate electricity in captive plants; the
rest was used for processing.
C.   Energy Resources and Supply
2.11      Indonesia's potential energy resources are estimated as follows:
Potential Energy Resources
In Original                In Million
Units                      toe
Fossil Fuels
Crude Oil            9.5 billion barrels               1,296
Natural Gas          80 trillion cubic feet            1,854
Coal                 25 billion tons                  14,325
Total                                        17,475
Other Energy Sources
GCethermal              10,000 megawatts
Hydropower              32,000 megawatts
Sources: Ministry of Mines and Energy, staff estimates.
Cumulative production of oil as of December 1985 was about 11.5 billion
barrels (bbls). Over the past years, oil production has declined from
about 1.6 million barrels per day (bpd) in 1978 to 1.2 million bpd in 1985
in response to changing world market conditions and lower OPEC quotas.
Estimates of oil reserves are inevitably subject to large uncertainties.
Remaining proven oil reserves are reported to be about 9.5 billion bbls.
These reserves could support a moderate growth in annual production
(current production capacity is estimated at 1.6 million bpd). However,
without unexpected aew finds, production will then start to tail off. This
long-term production constraint, together with continuing uncertainty in
world market conditions, underscores the importance of diversifying
Indonesia's primary energy sources. Exploration activity has recently
shown a downturn following the country's most active period from 1980 to
1983. While the slowdown in the interest of oil companies may, to a large
extent, reflect world-wide trends, a revision of incentives provided to
industry and the pace at which new acreage is being offered are probably
needed if Indonesia is to increase or maintain its production potential.
2.12      Indonesia has vast reserves of natural gas. Recoverable reserves
are estimated at 80 trillion cubic feet (TCF  which is equivalent to about
14 billion bbls of oil equivalent, and almost one and a half times as much
as the remaining proven level of oil reserves. The bulk of this gas is



- 6 -
nonr-associated and consequently can be developed for use independent of the
level of oil production. There is a drawback, however, to developing these
reserves as they are generally located away from the high population and
major industrial areas. Associated gas reserves comprise 15 TCF or 19% of
the total. The majority of these reserves are located in south and central
Sumatra and east Kalimantan.
2.13      Gas production increased eight-fold between 1974 and 1985,
reaching 1,580 billion cubic feet in 1985. This is equivalent to one-half
of Indonesia's oil production for the same year. About fifty percent of
that production was exported as LNG to Japan from liquefaction centers in
Arun and Badak. In addition, natural gas processing for LNG also results
in the production of natural gas liquids which can be used directly as
gasoline substitute or mixed with crude oil to upgrade its quality.
GOI has recently approved LPG extraction projects upstream of Arun and
Badak LNG plants. Currently very little LPG is produced from natural gas
in Indonesia even though much more could be produced.
2.14      Indonesia's coal reserves are believed to be in excess of 25
billion tons, located primarily in west and south Sumatra and Kalimantan.
While current production of about 450,000 tons per year (tpy) is still well
below the peak levels achieved in the 1940s (2 million tpy), major projects
have been undertaken to increase production. Coal is expected to become
the major fuel source for the power sector in the 1990s. Work started in
1982 on a 3.0 million tpy mine at Bukit Asam in south Sumatra (Loan
2079-IND) and on a 0.6 million tpy mine at the nearby Muara Tiga coal
field. A program to raise coal production at Onbilin in west Sumatra to
1.3 million tpy is also being implemented. In addition, in 1981, the
Government entered into a number of production-sharing agreements with
private foreign and Indonesian joint-venture companies for exploration and
exploitation of the Kalimantan coal reserves.
2.15      Surface  manifestutions of geothermal energy have been found on
all islands except Kalimantan; the country's entire geothermal potential is
estimated at about 10,000 megawatts (MW). A few sites have been investi-
gated but only one field, Kamojang in west Java, has been developed, with
the first 30-MW geothermal generator commissioned for commercial operation
in 1983. Total hydroower resources are large (current estimated hydro-
power potential is 32,000 MW) but development is limited by their geogra-
phic distribution relative to demand centers. The greatest hydropower
potential (over 35%) is in Irian Jaya where electricity demand is less than
1Z of total national demand. On the other hand, less than 10% of the total
potential is in Java, which accounts for 80% of the current electricity
demand. Existing hydroelectric installations have an aggregate capacity of
about 1,600 MW. Schemes with an additional combined generating capacity of
about 1,500 MW are currently under construction.
2.16      In view of the abundance and diversity of energy resources
available to Indonesia, the basic institutional structure for energy
planning has been oriented towards energy supply. Indonesia's economic
difficulties since 1981, however, highlight the need for new planning and
management strategies to develop the sector. The recent decline in the



-7-
growth of foreign exchange earnings from oil, which accounted in 1986/87
for about 50% of the country's total foreign exchange earnings, should
prompt measures to promote non-oil exports. In complement, there should be
a stronger emphasis on energy conservation and economically sound
diversification of domestic energy supplies, particularly natural gas and
coal, to save oil for export.
D.   Energy Conservation Policy, Activities and Institutions
2.17      Policy and Activities.  As mentioned, Indonesia has made
significant progress in setting energy prices at levels that reflect their
long-term opportunity costs. Over the last four years, GOI has taken bold
steps to increase the domestic price of petroleum fuels (para 2.05) to
stimulate the substitution of oil by other competing fuels, remove distor-
tions in demand between individual petroleum fuels, and spur conservation.
As stated earlier (para 2.05), the domestic prices of all petroleum
products are close to international price levels, with the exception of
kerosene and diesel oil.
2.18      Other energy conservation-related activities have also been
undertaken to complement the upward adjustment in energy prices. These
activities, however, which have been carried out in a sporadic and
uncoordinated manner, have been less than successful in creating interest
among energy users, particularly in industry. The Ministry of Mines and
Energy (MME), through its Sub-directorate for Energy Conservation,
provides energy conservation information to the public through a periodic
bulletin ("Energy Dan Kita") containing practical energy conservation
techniques and tips. An energy conservation conference aimed at management
staff of both private and public establishments was held recently. This
promotional campaign, however, did not have much impact due to inadequacies
of methods, materials and coverage. In 1983, the MNE issued a decree that
called for periodic reporting of energy use in government offices. In
addition, recommendations for energy conservation measures related to
lighting, air conditioning, machinery and office equipment were issued.
However, no mechanism was established for monitoring compliance. Further-
more, training in energy conservation techniques and analysis is lacking.
Among most industrial plants, there is insufficient knowledge of specific
energy utilization rates in the industrial processes. The energy conserva-
tion staff in the MME, which functions as a research group, has been
involved in no more than preliminary energy surveys, and that only
recently.
2.19      Institutions.  Overall policy guidance on energy resource
development and utilization is provided by the National Energy Coordinating
Board (BAKOREN). This body was created in 1980 to coordinate the energy
supply organizations and energy consuming institutions. It is chaired by
the Minister of Mines and Energy and has as members nine other cabinet
ministers, the president of the national oil company (PERTAMINA), and the
director general of the National Atomic Energy Agency (BATAN). BAKOREN
also provides, through its Secretariats, administrative and financial
management of local and foreign technical assistance operations. The
Technical Committee on Energy Resources (PTE) serves as a permanent working



group providing analytical and monitoring support to BAKOREN on matters
related to the definition, programming and implementation of national
energy policy. The Permanent Energy Assessment Committee (PME), on the
other hand, coordinates research activities of the different centers within
the MME and external centers and agencies. The Agency for the Development
and Application of Technology (BPPT) conducts research activities related
to energy savings and energy substitution.
2.20      Due to the functional nature and the structural level of the
Sub-directorate for Energy Conservation within the MME, which confines its
activities to research on energy use and its coverage to public sector
corporations, the Sub-directorace has not been able to effectively push
forward the concept of energy conservation in Indonesia. In addition, the
Sub-directorate's staff is not sufficiently trained in energy conservation
promotion, techniques and analysis. In order to overcome these
limitations, an organization capable of dealing with all involved agencies,
particularly those in the private sector, and fac:ilitating the creation of
a team of experts in the field of energy conservation and rationalization,
was establlshed under the Project. This organization, KONEBA, would be the
focal entity for all energy conservation activities in Indonesia. KONEBA
would operate as an autonomous commercial entity in the form of a
subsidiary company of P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI), the largest
nitrogenous fertilizer company in Indonesia, and four other Indonesian
fertilizer companies. The Sub-directorate in the MME will remain in place
and function as a regulatory body providing legislative support to KONEBA.
KONEBA's organization, scope of work and planned work program are discussed
in detail in Chapter IV.
E. Potential for Energy Savings
2.21      During 1984, Trans Energ (France) conducted preliminary energy
surveys of a number of large private and public industrial, transport and
public utility establishments to evaluate the potential for energy
savings. This work was performed under the French-Indonesian Cooperation
Program, and was coordinated by the MME. The industrial plants surveyed
account for about 172 of current total industrial energy consumption, and
included a number of facilities in the cement, glass, tire, pulp and paper,
textiles and sugar industries. In addition, Bank staff, assisted by
consultants, evaluated the potential for energy savings in four large
fertilizer plants; these plants account for about 10% of total industrial
energy use.
2.22      The results ,L the above preliminary surveys provide a good
indication of the magnitude of savings that could be realized in the
industrial sector if energy conservation programs were implemented. It is
estimated that in the surveyed plants alone, about 23% of current energy
consumption, equivalent to about US$38 million/year at a crude oil price of
US$15/bbl, could be saved through conservation measures. Of this amount,
at least 8% (or US$13 million) could be saved in the short run through
better housekeeping measures and improved operating practices, and 15% (or
US$25 million) in the medium term through modest plant investments. The
results of the surveys are summarized in the following table.



- 9 -
Overall Energy Savings Potential in Plants Surveyed
Energy           Potential Energy Savings
Consumption Total Potential Without Investment
Plants     ('000       ('000     Z of    t'000        Z of
Industry         Surveyed    boe/yr)    boe/yr)   Cons.  boe/yr)        Cons.
Fertilizer           4        4,015        803       20      400          10
Basic Chemicals      4          145         36       25       17          12
Plywood              4           75         16       21        8          11
Cement               2        2,872        536       19      205           7
Sugar               10        1,500        435       29       75           5
Glass                3          340        119       35       34          10
Textiles             15       1,360        353       26       68           5
Paper                10         380        114       30       27           7
Tires                2          150         47       31       12           8
Food, beverage
tobacco           11          290         58       20       11          4
Ceramic              2           10          2       20        1          10
Total          67       11,137      2,519       23      858          8
_=:
Sources: Trans Energ and Bank staff estimates.
2.23      In spite of the substantial benefits that could be derived from
energy conservation, very few industrial establishments in Indonesia have
made serious effort to follow a comprehensive energy conservation program.
In theory, the adjustment of energy prices to long-term opportunity costs
should be sufficient incentive for consumers to react to price signals.
However, in Indonesia, as in many other developing countries, even when
energy prices have been set at a level that reflects long-term economic
costs, only a few industrial consumers have reacted promptly or adequately
to conserve energy. This, in a way, reflects the lack of a competitive
environment in the Indonesian industrial sector. For certain industries,
like steel, the inaction stems from the fact that a more fundamental
restructuring, of which energy conservation is only one of many aspects, is
needed as a matter of priority. For other industries, the inertia is due
to a general lack of awareness of the potential and benefits of energy
savings. Among.many industrial plants, there is insufficient knowledge of
process and unit energy utilization rates, and of simple, low-cost
operational and housekeeping measures to reduce energy use. There is even
less awareness of energy conservation investments, which are complex and
require intensive studies and, in many cases, technological innovations.
Information on energy conservation techniques, strategies and equipment
performance is limited, and training is not available.
2.24      With the financial difficulties brought about by depressed
domestic market conditions, industrial establishments are now looking at
energy conservation and rationalization as ways of improving cost
efficiency in the short run, and gaining competitiveness in the long run.



- 10 -
Indeed, out of the 67 industrial establishments surveyed (para 2.21),
56 (or 84Z) expressed keen interest in obtaining training and technical
assistance on energy conservation, and undertaking energy audits in their
facilities. A large percentage of these companies is in the chemical,
textiles, sugar, and pulp and paper industries, with the chemical industry
(i.e. fertilizer) providing the greatest potential for energy savings.
More than half of these companies are in the private sector and most are
financially able to carry out an energy conservation program. With an
effective technical assistance program and information campaign, the demand
for energy conservation services is expected to expand to include 103
energy-intensive industrial plants in the short run, and 407 in the medium
term (Annex 2-2).
2.25      The experience of the industrialized countries suggests that in
order to realize the potential for energy conservation, there is a crucial
need to undertake energy conservation campaigns and training to supplement
a realistic energy pricing policy. The campaign should aim at creating an
awareness in all economic sectors and among the general public of the
relative costs and benefits associated with energy rationalization
measures. In addition, there is need for technical assistance to carry out
detailed energy audits, especially in industrial plants, to identify and
evaluate attractive opportunities for energy conservation and inter-fuel
substitution. These needs, which are quite evident in Indonesia, would be
met through the proposed Project. The related activities will be
undertaken by KONEBA, established under the Project.
III. THE FERTILIZER INDUSTRY
A.   Fertilizer Consumption Trends
3.01      Indonesia's fertilizer consumption is characterized by (')
heavy reliance on nitrogenous fertilizers, mostly urea for paddy (rice)
which is grown extensively; and (ii) concentration of consumption in Java,
Madura and Bali, the major rice-growing regions. GOI has long favored
intensive fertilizer use to achieve self-sufficiency in food production.
The rapid growth of fe-tilizer consumption, particularly during the period
1964-80, was attributed to the deliberate policy of the Government to
promote food production, improvement of the fertilizer distribution system
and further relaxation of supply constraints. By the start of the 1980s,
94.0% of nitrogen, 93.8Z of phosphate and 16.3% of potassium were consumed
in the food crop sector.
3.02      In the early 1970s, Indonesia's fertilizer requirements were met
to a large extent through imports. Total fertilizer imports (urea and
triple superphosphate (TSP), the main fertilizers for food crops) were
substantial; in 1975, fertilizer imports totalled 1.4 million tons of urea
and 0.5 million tons of TSP. The large imports were required to supply the
Government's agricultural development programs. During the second half of
the 1970s and the early 1980s, domestic fertilizer production capacity rose
steadily through the construction of new plants, which were financed under



- 11 -
three Bank group operations (para 3.10). In 1976, Indonesia became
self-sufficient in urea and from 1977 onwards, became a net exporter of
this product. The nitrogenous fertilizer industry in Indonesia is based on
natural gas, which is in abundant supply locally. Phosphate fertilizers
are imported as raw materials for domestic production of TSP and
potassium-based fertilizers, on the other hand, are imported as final
products.
3.03      For the period 1987-95, Indonesia is expected to increase its
imports of phosphate and potash fertilizers. For urea, however, with the
completion during 1983-85 of four new plants with a combined annual
capacity of 2.3 million tons, and with another plant now under
implementation and to be commissioned late 1988, a surplus is projected
well into the early 1990's. Urea production in excess of domestic
requirements reached 1.2 million tons in 1986 and was placed profitably in
export markets despite highly depressed international prices. With a
highly cost-competitive nitrogenous fertilizer industry, as well as
proximity to countries with substantial projected nitrogen deficits,
Indonesia is not expected to face major difficulties in exporting its
projected surplus ammonia and urea production.
B.   Fertilizer Distribution and Pricing
3.04     By Government regulation, PUSRI, the largest fertilizer producer
in Indonesia, is also responsible for marketing and distributing all
locally manufactured fertilizer in the domestic and international markets.
The marketing and distribuion system is complex, extending from the
producing plant, the bulk storage shed or bagging station and the inland
storage depots, to the village kiosks operated by retailers or
cooperatives. Products move in bags or in bulk, by sea, railway or truck,
to either bulk storage and bagging stations or inland depots. PUSRI has
developed expertise in fertilizer marketing and distribution and has been
effective in these operations.
3.05      Fertilizer prices are controlled by the Government at both the
producer and farmer levels. At the plant level, GOI sets prices on the
basis of standard operating cost recovery based on reasonably efficient
plant operations at 97% capacity utilization. Actual depreciation and
finance charges are then added to standard costs to calculate the
ex-factory production costs. Prices are set for each company separately,
which translates in a different price paid by the Government to each
producer. For each fertilizer producer, the formula also provides a fixed
margin of Rp 6,000/ton produced minus (or plus) 10% of the excess (or
shortfall) of actual over standard production costs to arrive at the total
ex-factory price for that producer. While this pricing formula provides an
incentive to minimize production costs, not enough safeguards have been
provided in the past to keep investment and capital costs as low as
possible. In the case of Xaltim, because of its very high capital costs,
it receives through depreciation charges an ex-factory price twice as much
as that paid to PUSRI, the lowest-cost producer.
3.06       GOI's overriding concern in recent years has been to keep prices
of agricultural inputs, including fertilizers, at a low level to encourage



- 12 -
increased farm production. As a consequence, retail prices have remained
low since the 1970s, while the benefit/cost ratio for crops such as paddy
rice has increased. In April 1986, to reduce the budgetary and economic
subsidy associated with such low prices, GOI increased fertilizer prices to
farmers by 25%-from Rp 100,000/ton to Rp 125,000 ton. All fertilizers are
sold to farmers at the same price throughout the country. However, despite
such periodic price increases, the subsidy element remains high particular-
ly for TSP and ammonium sulfate, and for remote locations on account of
high distribution costs. The domestic price of fertilizers needs to be
increased further and rationalized to reflect the relative economic value
of each fertilizer and to remove the heavy subsidy burden on the Government
budget. In addition, since GOI is encouraging more TSP use, and since this
product bears a subsidy percentage almost double that of urea, there is a
case for increasing TSP price faster to reflect the commodity's relative
economic value. Another way to achieve further reductions in Government
subsidies is to liberalize the marketing system, which is funded entirely
by GOI, in order to optimize the movement of fertilizers throughout the
distribution chain. These policy recommendations are being actively
considered by GOI in the context of its overall objective of curtailing the
fertilizer subsidy bill.
C.  Production Performance
3.07      Indonesia has 13 fertilizer plants with a total installed
capacity of 6.2 million product tons per year (tpy) of which 4.4 million
tpy is dedicated to urea production. There are currently six fertilizer
producers; five are owned by the Government, and one, P. T. Asean Aceh, is
a joint venture between Indonesia and other Asean countries. Three of
these producers (PUSRI, Asean Aceh and Iskandar Muda) are located in
Sumatra, two (Kujang and Gresik) in Java, and one (Kaltim) in Kalimantan
(Map IBRD 19366). The Indonesian fertilizer industry has demonstrated over
the years that it can operate at high capacity utilization and efficiency
rates, and the nitrogenous industry with a relatively low-cost feedstock is
now one of the most cost competitive producers in the world. Urea exports
have grown 40Z p.a. over recent years, from 162,000 tons in 1980 to 1.2
million tons in 1986, with major increases achieved between 1984 and 1986.
The industry follows a dynamic program of plant debottlenecking and
rehabilitation, and more recently, energy efficiency improvement, as well
as staff training, to enhance its international competitiveness. Data on
Indonesia's fertilizer plants, design capacities, and 1986 utilization
levels are 6ummarized on the following page.
D. P. T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI)
3.08      Background.  PUSRI, Indonesia's first fertilizer company, was
established in 1959 as a government-owned entity in Palembang to
manufacture urea from gas which had previously been flared. The initial
small plant, PUSRI I, went on stream in 1964 and quickly achieved capacity
operation of 100,00) tpy of urea. Subsequent expansion of output to the
current design capacity of 1.5 million tons of urea was carried out with
the assistance of IDA and IBRD.  PUSRI now operates three ammonia/u-:a
complexes and has an excellent record of high capacity utilization. Its



- 13 -
effective staff development program and its expertise in fertilizer
marketing have made it the key organization in the industry. It provides
the Government with advice on all aspects of fertilizer industry
development, including project management and initial operational
responsibility for new fertilizer plants. PUSRI was instrumental in the
efficient implementation and initial operation of the Asean Aceh and
Iskandar Muda complexes. Executives trained at PUSRI are currently
operating most of the country's other fertilizer plants. PUSRI, through a
joint venture (P. T. Kelsri) with M. W. Kellogg (US), also trains foreign
fertilizer plant operators in its facilities, and undertakes procurement
for all Kellogg-designed plants in Asia. PUSRI's subsidiary in Houston,
Texas, procures all parts and chemicals for its plants.
Indonesia - Fertilizer Plants, Design Capacities and
1986 Production
1986 Production
Plants                          Capacitvy                      (Capacity
('000 tpyS     ('000 tons)   Utilization, Z)
UREA
PUSRI II, III and IVa/             1,520           1,526            100
-uj ang                              570             630            111
Asean Aceh                           570             585            103
Kaltim I and 11b/                  1,140             559             49
Iskandar Muda -                      570             638            112
Total Urea                   4,370            3,938             90
TSP
Gresik I and II                    1,200           1,120             93
Ammonium Sulfate
Gresik I and II                     650              576             89
Total Fertilizers            6,220            5,634             91
a/  Excludes PUSRI I which is being phased out and currently producing
only small quantities of ammonia.
b/  Kaltim II came on stream in November 1984, and Kaltim I in July 1985.
The low capacity utilization in Kaltim is due to design problems in
Kaltim I. A third plant, Kaltim III, is under implementation and will
be completed in 1988. Kaltim also has capacity to produce 330,000
tons p.a. of excess ammonia.
3.09      Organization and Management. PUSRI is generally considered to be
one of Indonesia's best managed large industrial enterprises. PUSRI's
management structure, in keeping with Indonesia's company law, is patterned
after the European two-tier model, with a supervising Board of
Commissioners (Dewan Komisaris) and a Management Board (Direksi). Members



- 14 -
of the Board of Cocmissioners include: (a) the Director General of
Monetary Affairs, Ministry of Finance; (b) the Secretary General of the
Department of Industries; (c) a representative of the Minister of
Agriculture; and (d) the Director General of Chemical Industries.
Managerial authority for PUSRI's day-to-day operations rests with a six-man
Management Board, consisting of the President-Director and Directors of
Production, Technology, Finance, Development, and Marketing. Members of
the Management Board, as in the case of the Board of Commissioners, are
appointed by the Government. PUSRI's highly capable and well-experienced
management team enjoys a significant level of autonomy, allowing all
operating, financial and administrative decisions to be made and carried
out expeditiously. PUSRI's financial performance, which has been
satisfactory, is discussed in detail in Chapter VII.
E.   Bank Experience with Past Lending in the Fertilizer Sector
3.10      The Bank Group has been actively involved in the development of
Indonesia's fertilizer industry since 1970 when a US$35 million IDA credit
(Credit 193-IND) was approved to help finance PUSRI II. In 1975 and 1976,
respectively, Loans 1089-IND (US$115.0 million) and 1254-IND (US$69.3
million) were approved to finance PUSRI III and IV. The credit and two
loans enabled the expansion of Indonesia's production capacity from 100,000
tpy to 1.6 million tpy of urea. To ensure adequate and efficient
distribution of fertilizer from the producing facilities, the Bank
subsequently approved financing of two PUSRI fertilizer distribution
projects (Loans 1139-IND in 1976 and 2120-IND in 1982).
3.11      The Bank's experience with the ahove lending has been extremely
good. PUSRI III and IV are among the most successful industrial
operations financed by the Bank. 3/ PUSRI III was commissioned one month
ahead of schedule with actual proTect costs 7% lower than the appraisal
estimates and higher rates of capacity utilization in the first two years
of operation than expected. PUSRI IV, benefitting from the experience in
implementing PUSRI III, was also commissioned one month ahead of schedule
with savings in project costs of 23% compared to appraisal estimates; it
also achieved higher rates of capacity utilization than expected in the
initial two years of operation. As a consequence, the financial rates of
return which had been estimated at 13.8% for PUSRI III and 21.4% for PUSRI
IV were re-estimated at 18.2% and 31.0%, respectively; the re-estimated
economic rates of return were 31.0% and 41.0%, respectively, compared to
19.7% and 28.6% at appraisal.
3.12      The above favorable performance has been attributed to the
following elements, which were also included in the design of the proposed
Project:
(a) creation of a competent, strong and stable management core
for PUSRI and for project implementation, assisted by a
capable technical advisor;
31   Project Performance Audit Report, Indonesia PUSRI III and IV, January
28, 1985.



- 15 -
(b) use of competent and highly experienced engineering firms
for all stages of project implementation;
(c) provision of bonus/penalty clauses tied to implementation
schedules for engineering contractors;
(d) provision of extensive training facilities to develop local
skilled and managerial personnel and rapid promclion of such
staff to relevant responsibilities; and
(e) extensive arrangements made to facilitate procurement,
including stationing of PUSRI staff at the head offices of
the engineering firms and, in the case of PUSRI IV, advance
arrangements with the cofinancing institutions on
procurement procedures.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
4.01      The proposed Project will assist Indonesia in establishing the
institutional framework and policies for planning, promoting, coordinating,
implementing and monitoring energy conservation activities. The Project
will, in parallel, demonstrate the benefits of energy conservation in
industry through the implementation of an energy efficiency scheme in
PUSRI, the largest nitrogenous fertilizer producer in Indonesia. The
Project includes the following components:
(i) establishment of an Energy Conservation Center to assist in
reducing energy costs through conservation and rationalization
activities; and
(ii)  implementation of specific energy efficiency investments aimed at
reducing current energy use and optimizing production capacity of
three ammonia plants in PUSRI.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.02      The Project would support the Government's primary objective in
the energy sector, to Increase the economic and technical efficiency of
energy use, an objective which has taken on increased importance in recent
years due to the country's severe resource constraints. As mentioned, the
most important measure to induce energy conservation in general is to set
energy prices at levels that reflect long-term economic opportunity costs.
Indonesia has made significant progress in this direction, with domestic
energy prices now set close to international price levels. However, in
order to realize fully the potential for energy conservation, there is a
need to carry out an extensive promotional campaign and training to
complement this pricing policy. (para 2.23). The energy conservation
campaign should be accompanied by technical assistance and training to
carry out energy audits and feasibility studies in order to identify and



- 16 -
evaluate attractive opportunities for energy conservation and
rationalization. Under the proposed Project, the Bank will assist in
establishing the institutional framework and policies for planning,
promoting, coordinating, implementing and monitoring energy conservation
activities. Through the Project, the Bank will help (i) prepare a
comprehensive energy conservation program for the industrial sector and set
energy related norms for industrial energy use by industry subsector and
product; (ii) carry out promotional campaigns and coordinate technical
assistance to help enterprises identify and implement energy conservation
measures; and (iii) provide training in energy conservation matters,
including training for independent energy auditors and energy managers of
industrial enterprises. These activities would be carried out through
KONEBA which was established under the proposed Project.
C. Project Description
1. Energy Conservation Center Component
4.03      Functions.  In order to provide further development and effective
implementation of Indonesia's national energy rationalization program, an
Energy Conservation Center (KONEBA) was established under the proposed
Project. KONEBA will be broadly entrusted with planning, coordination,
training, promotion, research, as well as energy auditing and monitoring
tasks related to energy conservation. In the initial years, KONEBA will
focus its attention on the industrial sector, this sector being the largest
consumer of commercial energy. In the succeeding years, KONEBA will expand
its sectoral coverage to include the household/services and transport
sectors. KONEBA, geared towards both private and public sector
establishments, would have the following overall functions:
(a) preparation of a comprehensive energy conservation program
for the industrial sector and setting of energy-related
norms for industrial energy use by industry subsector and
product;
(b) coordination of technical assistance and promotional efforts
to help individual enterprises, particularly the
energy-intensive ones, effectively identify and implement
energy conservation measures and investments;
(c) provision of advice on conservation policy and legislation
as well as proposal of measures, including incentive
schemes,designed to encourage small- and medium-scale
industries to undertake energy conservation and interfuel
substitution investments, and where necessary, performance
of energy audits in these indust-ies;
(d) preparation of energy surveys of selected subsectors and
industries;
(e) coordination of applied research related to energy
conservation;



- 17 -
(f)  coordination of training in energy conservation matters,
including training for independent auditors and energy
managers of industrial enterprises both at university and
technical school levels;
(g)  dissemination of information (manuals, reports and
publications), undertaking of demonstration projects, and
organization of promotion and awareness seminars; and
(h)  updating of energy manuals and subsector studies by repeated
auditing over the years.
4.04      Organization and Staffing.  KONEBA will serve as the focal entity
for energy conservation activities in Indonesia and will be operated as an
autonomous, commercial entity (persero) owned jointly by PUSRI and four
other Indonesian fertilizer companies4/. PUSRI owns 60% of the share
capital of KONEBA with the four other fertilizer companies owning each
10%.  This decision follows GOI's recent policy to restrict the
establishment of new government agencies particularly those aimed at
undertaking commercial operations. This decision is also intended to
accommodate GOI's firm commitment to energy conservation while taking into
account current and projected budgetary constraints. Finally, it will
enable KONEBA to obtain the necessary organizational and managerial support
to carry out a program of a national scope. PUSRI is generally considered
to be one of Indonesia's best managed large industrial enterprises and was
instrumental in the efficient implementation and initial operation of two
fertilizer complexes in Indonesia. As an autonomous enterprise, KONEBA
will have the necessary operational flexibility to carry out effectively
its tasks, as well as its own financial and manpower resources. Its
operations will also be principally commercial in orientation.
4.05      KONEBA's activities will be carried out by four small operating
units--audits and studies, training, consultancy services, and
information-which will constitute the Company.  Some of these activities
would not be carrieu out by KONEBA itself, but through specialized
engineering/consulting agencies. KONEBA, however, will plan, mobilize,
coordinate and monitor all this work. This will allow it to remain
relatively small in size, but effective.
4.06      At full strength, which would be by its second year of o_eration,
KONEBA will have a permanent staff of 15 senior and junior professionals.
KONEBA is headed by a President-Director, formerly the Technical Director
of PUSRI, assisted by a Deputy President-Director; both have been appointed
on a full-time basis. KONEBA's other core staff (information specialist,
training specialist and two senior engineers) have also been appointed. To
maintain direct industrial experience and channel energy rationalization
techniques back to the enterprises, additional staff which might be
required would be provided through secondment of technical personnel from
various private and public sector companies to KONEBA. When these seconded
staff return to their respective enterprises, they would be in an excellent
position to carry out energy rationalization measures in their own plants.
In addition, to build upon the experience in energy conservation research,
4/  P. T. Gresik, P. T. Iskander Muda, P. T. Kaltim and P. T. Kujang.



- 18 -
policy and legislation existing in the MME, relevant staff in the MME would
be seconded to KONEBA to provide guidance to the Company in its formative
years. The planned organization structure of KONEBA is shown in Chart 1.
4.07      KONEBA will receive policy guidance from a board of commissioners
which consists presently of three members drawn from the Ministry Mines and
Energy, PUSRI, and Kujang. The MME would be represented by the Director
General of Electric Power and New Energy who also chairs the PTE (para
2.19). Such a representation from the MME will enable KONEBA to have the
important linkage to BAKOREN, the agency which coordinates all energy
production and utilization activities in Indonesia (para 2.19).
4.08      Work Program.  To assist KONEBA in carryiag out a number of
priority activities, a consulting company will be engaged for a period of
two years. The consulting company will provide overall guidance to KONEBA
in its formative years, and help the Company implement the following
priority activities:
(a) prepare publications, disseminate information, and carry out
a comprehensive promotional campaign;
(b) design, organize and implement a national energy survey and
establish a national energy data base;
Cc) identify and assist in the procurement of KONEBA's
instrumentation needs, as well as in the recruitment of its
additional staff;
(d) organize, initiate and supervise energy audits and
feasibility studies in priority industries, such as
fertilizers, textiles, sugar, and pulp and paper (Annex
4-1);
(e) develop and conduct training programs for the Center's staff
and industrial energy managers; and
(f) prepare subsector energy manuals.
The detailed terms of reference for the above technical assistance
(Annex 4-2) were agreed upon between the Government, KONEBA and the Bank
and consultant selection was carried out under Bank review according to
Bank guidelines for employment of consultants. The consesltant has been
selected to provide guidance to KONEBA in its formative years and help the
Company carry out its priority activities. The technical aesistance
contract between KONEBA and the consultant has been signed.
4.09      Development and Operating Costs.  The development costs required
to establish KONEBA, and make it fully operational, including one year
operating costs, are estimated at US$6.4 million, of which about US$4.5
million (70%) is expected to be in foreign exchange. The foreign exchange



- 19 -
requirement would principally be for foreign technical consultancy
services, external staff training, technical audits and feasibility
studies, and purchase of energy measuring equipment. The local
expenditures would comprise local technical services, staff salaries,
equipment and supplies, and general overhead.
4.10      Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan will cover the foreign
exchange requirements of KONEBA over its first three years of operation,
while PUSRI and other shareholders will finance all the local costs through
equity contributions. KONEBA will be operated principally on a commercial
basis. Many areas of KONEBA's activities are expected to generate
revenues; these areas include the provision of energy audits, project
evaluation services, training, and technical information. In the short
run, however, and in view of the heavy promotional campaign and training
that will be undertaken by KONEBA, it could be expected that revenue
generation would be quite limited. KONEBA's projected fund shortages
during the first two years would be covered by equity contributions.
Assurances were obtained from PUSRI that it will will make available to
KONEBA, in a timely manner, all funds, including working capital, as and
when required to enable KONEBA to carry out its tasks.
4.11      For its internal source of funds, KONEBA will charge its clients
for services provided. For the energy audits which will be carried out
during the first tvo years, KONEBA will charge only a portion (i.e. -'0Z) of
the costs as a means of developing further its market. The rest of the
audit costs would be recovered within six months after audit completion
when the recommended housekeeping measures start yielding benefits. This
deferred-charging procedure would be adopted for the industrial plants to
be audited under the proposed Project (Annex 4-1), except for the
fertilizer plants which would be charged in full in the course of the
audits. For the succeeding audits, KONEBA would recover their full costs
as the audits progress.
4.12      In addition to the energy audits, KONEBA is expected to generate
revenues from the provision of (i) technical information and consultancy
services (i.e., international and local energy utilization norms by
industry, process &ad product; energy conservation technologies, strategies
and analysis, etc.); and (ii) training of industrial operators on energy
conservation techniques. These activities would contribute about 15% of
KONEBA's revenues. Gross revenues are estimated at US$0.2 million, US$0.4
million and US$1.0 million in each of the first three years, respectively.
KONEBA's projected financial performance (Annex 4-3), which is expected to
be satisfactory from the third year onward, is summarized on the following
page. Assurances were obtained fro:-i KONEBA that it will follow prudent
financial practices and maintain a satisfactory financial position (i.e.,
current ratio of at least 1.1 until December 31, 1988, not less than 1.2
from January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1991 and not less than 1.3 thereafter;
not incur additional debt, if after such incurrence the debt/equity ratio
is greater than 60/40; and debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times in
1989 and 1.5 times thereafter).



- 20 -
KONEBA
Projected Financial Data
(in current Rp million, unless otherwise indicated)
1987       1988         1989      1990      1995
Revenues                    252        672        1,659     2,378      4,635
Net Income                 (722)      (373)         581     1,003       463
Internal Cash              (722)      (349)         605     1,027     3,107
Generation
Current Ratio               1.2        1.2          1.7       2.1        1.4
Debt/Equity Ratio         27/73      45/55        51/49     49/51      29/71
Debt Service Coverage,
times                      -          -          1.3       1.5       2.2
2.   PUSRI Energy Efficiency and Capacity Optimization Component
4.13      The PUSRI complex consists of three ammonia/urea plants5/ with a
combined capacity of 2,660 tons per day (tpd) of ammonia and 4,60W tpd of
urea. All plants were constructed prior to the development of modern
process technology geared towards maximizing energy efficiency and
optimizing capacity. In 1984, P. T. Kelsri (Indonesia), the joint venture
of PUSRI and M. W. Kellogg (US), carried out a detailed techno-economic
study which recommended (i) a gradual phase-out of PUSRI I, the oldest of
the four plants, and its replacement with a new, more energy-efficient
1,000 tpd ammonia plant and 1,725-tpd urea plant; and (ii) modifications in
PUSRI II, III and IV ammonia plants to reduce energy consumption and
increase process efficiency. The project for PUSRI I is still under
consideration but is unlikely to be implemented in view of the high cost of
developing and bringing gas to the site. The modifications for PUSRI II,
III and IV would be implemented under this proposed Project.
4.14      The Project will enhance PUSRI's overall production efficiency
through plant modifications directed towards increasing energy efficiency
and effective capacity. The Project is expected to result in: (i) a
10Z reduction in current energy use per ton of ammonia; and (ii) a
corresponding 122 increase in effective production capacity in PUSRI's II,
III and IV ammonia units, Through the Project, the plants' heat recovery
systems, furnaces and associated equipment will be upgraded and modern
energy-saving equipment such as superheat burners, low-pressure boilers and
molecular sieves will be installed. Upon completion of the Project, the
average energy use per ton of ammonia is expected to decline from 38.3
mmBtu to 34.3 mmBtu.
5/  Excluding PUSRI I, the smallest and oldest plant which is being phased
out and now producing only small quantities of ammonia.



- 21 -
4.15      With the lower unit energy requirement after plant modifications,
the Project will enable the production of additional 100,000 tpy of auonia
without any increase in total natural gas consumption. In the interim,
20,000 tpy of this additional ammonia production will be used to optimize
current urea production, and the balance will be exported. In the future,
surplus ammonia production would be used either to further increase urea
production through modifications in the urea plants, or to produce capro-
lactam. PUSRI is currently evaluating a technical proposal from TOYO
Engineering Corporation (Japan) which would increase the combined produc-
tion capacity of the II, III and IV urea plants from 1.5 million tpy to 1.7
million tpy, and enable the conversion of all incremental ammonia produc-
tion to urea. At the same time, PUSRI is considering diversifying to
caprolactam production through a joint venture with P. T. Branta Mulia
(Indonesia) and Hankook Caprolactam Corp. (Korea).
D. Environmental Aspects
4.16      No environmental issues are expected under the Project.  Under
Loan 1089-IND, PUSRI agreed to take adequate environmental protection and
monitoring measures and continues to comply with this agreement. The PUSRI
plants to be modified under the Project have been designed to comply with
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank and the modifications will
be environmentally neutral.
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.   Project Cost Estimate
5.01      The total financing requirement of the Project, including
physical contingencies, price escalation and interest during construction
is estimated at US$36.1 million equivalent, of which US$25.0 million (69%)
is in foreign exchange, as summarized on the following page. Details of
the project cost estimates are shown in Annex 5-1. The project implementa-
tion period is assumed at six years based on the past Bank experience with
similar projects as reflected in the relevant standard profile.
5.02      The base cost estimates are in March 1987 prices and are based on
(i) a detailed feasibility study prepared by P.T. Kelsri (Indonesia) and
M.W. Kellogg (US) in August 1984 for the PUSRI Energy Efficiency component;
and (ii) energy surveys conducted by Trans Energ (France) in June 1984 and
Bank staff in March 1987, and operating cost estimates prepared by the
Ministry of Mines and Energy and PUSRI for the Energy Conservation Center
component. Physical contingencies of 15% and 10% were applied on the
Energy Conservation Center and PUSRI Energy Efficiency components, respec-
tively. Price contingencies were based on (i) domestic inflation of 10% in
1987, 5% in 1988 and 3.5% in 1989 and thereafter; and (ii) international
inflation rates of 3.0% in 1987, 1.0% p.a. in 1988-90 and 3.5% in 1991 and
thereafter, in accordance with the latest Bank projections. Technical
assistance, including plant-specified detailed energy audits and
feasibility studies, for the Energy Conservation Center will require 265
man-months of foreign consultancy services. Engineering services for PUSRI
will require 283 man-months of foreign assistance and 500 man-months of
local services.



- 22 -
Summ         of Project Costs a/
(1,650 Rupiah - 1 US$)
billion Rupiah -        million US$         as Z of
Foreign  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total   Total
Energy Conservation Center
Technical Assistance          2.7       0.3    3.0      1.6     0.2    1.8       89
Training                      0.3      0.2    0.5       0.2     0.1    0.3       67
Energy Audits and
Feasibility Studies          2.7      0.3    3.0       1.6     0.2    1.8       89
Instrumentation               0.5      -       0.5      0.3     -      0.3      100
Fixtures & Vehicles           -         0.2    0.2      -       0.1    0.1        -
Operating Costs b/            -         1.2    1.2      -       0.7    0.7        -
Working Capital               -         0.3    0.3      -       0.2    0.2        -
Sub-total                 6.2      2.5    8.7       3.7     1.5    5.2       71
PUSRI Energy Efficiency
Engineering Services          5.1       1.7    6.8      3.1      1.0    4.1      76
Royalties and
License Fees                5.4      -       5.4      3.3     -      3.3      100
Equipment and Materials      10.9       0.2   11.1      6.6     0.1    6.7       99
Freight and Insurance         1.3       1.3    2.6      0.8     0.8    1.6       50
Construction                  0.7       5.2    5.9      0.4     3.2    3.6       11
Start-up and Commissioning    0.3      0.5    0.8       0.2     0.3    0.5       40
Sub-total                23.7      8.9   32.6      14.4     5.4   19.8       73
Base Cost Estimate           29.9      11.4  41.3      18.1     6.9   25.0       72
Physical Contingencies c/        3.3       1.1    4.4      2.0     0.7    2.7       74
Price Escalation d/              1.5       1.3    2.8      0.9     0.8    1.7       53
Total Project Cost           34.7     13.8  48.5       21.0     8.4   29.4       71
Interest During Construction     6.6      4.5   11.1       4.0     2.7    6.7       60
Total Financing Required     41.3      18.3   59.6     25.0    11.1   36.1       69
a/  Includes applicable local taxes amounting to about US$0.9 million (Rp 1.5 billion)
which have been included in the local cost component.
b/  For the Center's first year of operation.
c/ Total physical contingencies are about 11% of base cost.
d/  Local price contingencies are about 11Z, and foreign price contingencies are about
5% of the respective base costs plus physical contingencies.
B.   Financing Plan
5.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$21.0 million will cover 58% of the
total financing and 84% of the foreign exchange requirements of the



- 23 -
Project. For the Energy Conservation Center component, the Bank loan will
finance all the foreign exchange project costs (technical assistance,
energy audits and feasibility studies, training and instrumentation, total-
ling US$4.5 million) during KONEBA's first three years of operation, while
PUSRI and the other shareholders will cover interest during construction
and all the local costs through equity contributions. For the PUSRI energy
efficiency component, the Bank loan will cover US$16.5 million, or all the
foreign exchange costs (engineering services, royalties and license fees,
and equipment and materials); the balance, including interest during
construction as well as all local costs, will be financed by PUSRI through
internal cash generation. PUSRI is capable of weeting such financing
requirements, and its cash flow position is projected to remain sound (para
7.03).
5.04      The Bank loan will be extended to GOI for 20 years, including 5
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. For the
PUSRI Energy Efficiency component, GOI will onlend US$16.5 million to PUSRI
for 10 years including 4 years of grace at an onlending rate of 13.52,
which is positive in real terms. For the Energy Conservation Center
componeat, GOI will onlend US$4.5 million to KONEBA for 15 years including
5 years of grace at an onlending rate of 13.5%. GOI will bear the foreign
exchange risk. The onlending to PUSRI and KONEBA will be made under
subsidiary loan agreements between GOI ane PUSRI, and GOI and KONEBA, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the bank. The execution of these
subsidiary loan agreements will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.05      The financing plan for the Project is summarized as follows:
Project Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
Foreign    Local    Total    (X)
Equity
PUSRI and Other
Shareholders
- For Energy Conser-
vation Center       1.0         2.6       3.6     10
PUSRI
- For PUSRI Energy
Efficiency          3.0         8.5      11.5     32
Sub-total         4.0        11.1      15.1     42
Debt
IBRD loan              21.0          -       21.0     58
Total Financing          25.0        11.1      36.1    100



- 24 -
C. Procurement
5.06      The procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized on
the following page. All equipment and materials contracts to be financed
by the Bank will be procured in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. International competitive bidding (ICB) will be used for
procurement of individual items costing over US$200,000. This will
represent about 60% of the total contracts for equipment and materials.
Equipment proprietary to the process design, estimated to cost US$2.0
million (about 10% of the Bank loan), will be procured on the basis of
prices negotiated with original equipment suppliers. Small items costing
less than US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.4 million will be
procured through limited international bidding (LIB) after solicitation of
quotations from qualified suppliers from at least three Bank-eligible
countries. To the maximum extent possible, identical or similar items
would be grouped together for purposes of bidding and procurement. For
purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of goods under
ICB, qualified domestic suppliers will be allowed a preference of 152 of
the CIF price or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower.
5.07      Civil works contracts for construction (for PUSRI component)
totalling US$4.1 million will be awarded through local competitive bidding
(LCB). None of these civil works contracts will exceed US$2.0 million and
are not likely to attract interest from foreign bidders. The Bank will
finance the design and supervision of civil works, which amounts to about
US$0.5 million. Bidding packages for these works, as well as for goods
over US$1.0 million will be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. Contracts for consulting services (technical
assistance, energy audits and feasibility studies for KONEBA, and
engineering and supervision services6/ for the PUSRI component) will be
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines on the use of consultants.
D. Disbursements and Allocation of Bank Loan
5.08      An estimated schedule of loan disbursements is given in Annex
5-2. Loan disbursement is expected to be completed by December 1992. The
disbursement period for this project is estimated at six years, based on
the standard profile derived from past Bank experience with similar
projects. Disbursement against contracts for (i) equipment and materials,
(ii) training, and (iii) civil works costing less than US$100,000 will be
made against statement of expenditures. Reimbursement applications against
statement of expenditures would be aggregated to about US$50,000 before
they are submitted to the Bank. Documentation for disbursements under
statement of expenditures will be retained by KONEBA and PUSRI. All other
disbursements will be fully documented. Retroactive financing of up to
6/   Including the provision of licenses required.



- 25 -
(million US$)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                  ICB     LIB    LCB   Other    N.A.    Cost
PUSRI Component:
Equipment and Materials          5.4     1.0    1.2    2.0 a/   -         9.6
(5.0)   (1.0)   -     (2.0)I/  -        (8.0)
Civil Works                        -      -      4.1    -        -       4.1
Engineering Services and           -      -             9.4b             9.4
Licenses                           -      -      -     (8. D    -        (8.5)
Energy Cons. Center Component:
Technical Assistance              -       -      -      2.2      -        2.2
-       -     -      (2.0)     -      (2.0)
Energy Audits and Feasibility    -        -      -      2.2      -       2.2
Studies                         -       -     -      (1.7)     -      (1.7)
Training                          -       -      -      0.4      -       0.4
-       -     -     (0.4)      -      (0.4)
Instrumentation, Vehicles &       -      0.4    -       0.1      -       0.5
Fixtures                        -     (0.4)   -       -        -      (0.4)
Others c/                         -       -      -      -        1.0      1.0
Total                       5.4     1.4    5.3   16.3       1.0    29.4
(5.0)   (1.4)   -    (14.6)      -     (21.0)
a/   For proprietary equipment which will be procured through direct
negotiations with original suppliers.
b/   Of which US$0.5 million is for design and supervision of civil works.
c/   Procurement not applicable; comprises operating costs and working
capital. .
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
by the Bank.



- 26-
US$1.0 million would be provided to cover expenses for preparatory
activities, mobilization and other payments after January 1, 1986, for the
PUSRI energy efficiency and KONERA Energy Conservation Center components.
The Bank loan allocation is shown in Annex 5-3.
5.09      The proceeds of the Bank loan will cover: (i) for equipment and
materials, 100% of foreign exchange cost for direct imports, 95% of
ex-factory price of locally manufactured items, and 65Z of total
expenditures for items imported but procured locally; and (ii) for
engineering services (including US$0.5 million for design and supervision
of civil works), royalties and license fees, consultancy services, and
overseas training, 100% of expenditures. The Project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1992, and the loan closing date will be June 30,
1993.
VI.  STATUS OF PREPARATION, PROJECT MANAGEMENT,
IMPLEMENTATION AND RISKS
A. Status of Preparation
6.01      Energy Conservation Center.  The Energy Conservation Center,
KONEBA, was legally incorporated in January 1987; its Board of
Commissioners as well as the President Director, the Deputy President
Director and four other key staff were also appointed at the same time.
KONEBA will operate as an autonomous, commercial entity in the form of a
wholly-owned subsidiary company of PUSRI and four other Indonesian
fertilizer companies.
6.02      Given the critical role technical assistance will play in helping
KONEBA achieve Project objectives and the need to ensure early availability
of this assistance to the Company, advance contracting has been carried
out. The Bank was involved at each stage of the consultant selection
process to ensure that selection procedures have followed Bank guidelines
on the use of consultants ane that contracts conform with Project objec-
tives. The consultant has been selected to provide guidance to KONEBA
during its formative years and to help the Company carry out its priority
activities. The technical assistance contract between KONEBA and the
consultant has been signed.
6.03      PUSRI Energy Efficiency.  The equipment and works required for
this component have been identified and costed by P.T. Kelsri and M.W.
Keliogg in a detailed feasibility study completed in 1984 (para 5.02). The
bid documents and the draft contract have been reviewed by the Bank. Bid
evaluation is planned to be completed in October 1987, and contracts
awarded in December 1987. This component is sufficiently ready for
implementation.
B. Project Management, Implementation and Monitoring
6.04      Energy Conservation Center.  During its first two years of
operation, the consultant will assist KONEBA in the areas of (i) promo-
tional campaign; (ii) establishment of energy data base; (iii) conduct of



- 27 -
energy audits and feasibility studies; and (iv) training. The detailed
energy audits and feasibility studies will be carried out by an engineering
firm (or group of firms) with which KONEBA will enter into a separate
technical assistance contract. The consultant will prepare the terms of
reference for the audits and studies, and assist KONEBA in the selection of
the engineering firm(s). The consultant will also supervise the carrying
out of the audits and studies. To monitor project implementation, KONEBA
would submit quarterly progress reports in a form acceptable to the Bank.
6.05      PUSRI Energy Efficiency.  The implementation of this component
will be the responsibility of PUSRI. PUSRI will be assisted by qualified
foreign and local engineering firms and will undertake the major activities
as follows:
(a) basic design engineering will be carried out by the foreign
engineering firm in its home off'.ce, with participation of
PUSRI engineers;
(b) detailed engineering will be done by PUSRI in Indonesia,
under the supervision of the foreign engineering firm;
(c) procurement will be handled by PUSRI, through its offices in
Indonesia, Houston and Tokyo, with back-up from the foreign
engineering firm;
Cd) performance guarantees will be provided by the foreign
engineering firm and the equipment suppliers.
PUSRI has established a Project Management Team under the Technical
Director which will be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project, as well as for the coordination with the foreign and local
engineering firms. The implementation schedule for this component is shown
in Chart 2.
C.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements
6.06      PUSRI will be required to submit to the Bank annual financial
statements and reports, as well as project accounts, examined by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the end of
its fiscal year. The reports would also include a separate audit of
accounts relating to disbursements against statements of expenditure.
PUSRI will give prompt attention to audit exceptions and recommendations.
PUSRI will also be required to submit to the Bank quarterly financial
statements and progress reports on the physical implementation of the
project within two months after the end of each quarter.
6.07      KONEBA will complete by December 31, 1987, the design, installa-
tion and operation of an accounting system to record all financial
transactions of KONEBA. It will maintain records adequate to monitor
project implementation, and will submit quarterly progress reports to the
Bank within 45 days after the end of each quarter in a form acceptable to
the Bank. KONEBA will maintain accounts satisfactory to the Bank for all



- 28 -
expenditures incurred under the Project. KONEBA will also submit quarterly
financial statements to the Bank within two months after the end of each
quarter. It will have its annual financial statements examined by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and submit to the Bank such
statements along with the audit report within six months of the end of its
fiscal year.
D. Project Risks
6.08      The technical, financial and commercial risks associated with the
Project are minimal. The energy conservation measures that would be
implemented by KONEBA and PUSRI are based on proven technology and
practices. The completion of the administrative and legal requirements
establishing KONEBA as well as appointments of its Board of Commissioners
and core key staff remove the risk of further delays resulting from
bureaucratic processes.
6.09      There is a risk of KONEBA not being able to realize fully the
potential for energy savings in Indonesia's industrial sector, since its
ability to do so will depend much on the effectiveness of both the
promotional campaign that KONEBA will undertake, and on the technical
assistance that it will provide to industries. With the Bank's assistance,
KONEBA's organization and work program have been formulated around such
considerations. Risks associated with the PUSRI energy efficiency
component are minimal; PUSRI has an impressive record of efficiency in
implementing and commissioning complex fertilizer grassroot projects.
VII. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES OF PUSRI
ENERGY EFFICIENCY COMPONENT
A. Financial Analysis
7.01      Background.  The key assumptions used in the financial analysis
are given in Annex 7-1. In order to provide an overall view of PUSRI's
financial performance, adjustments were made to consolidate and reclassify
certain accounts as necessary according to conventional accounting
concepts. Detailed historical financial data are given in Annex 7-2, while
projected financial performance is shown in Annex 7-3.
7.02      Past Financial Performance.  PUSRI's past financial performance
has been good. Net profit increased consistently over the years and
reached Rp 41 billion in 1984. Net return on sales rose from 12% in 1982
to 21% in 1984. In 1985, however, as a result of a 23%-reduction in urea
ex-factory prices by GOI, net income declined to Rp 16 billion and net
return on sales to 12%. In 1986, net income increased again to Rp 22
billion and return on sales improved to 17%. The company's financial
position has also been sound. Over the last five years, PUSRI's liquidity,
leverage and solvency positions have been satisfactory at averages of 1.7
(current ratio), 29/71 (debt/equity) and 2.4 (debt service coverage),
respectively. PUSRI's recent operating performance and key financial
indicators are summarized in the table below.



- 29 -
PUSRI - Historical Financial Data
(in billion current Rp, unless otherwise stated)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Sales                               151.5   185.6   192.6   138.9   131.7
Net Income                           17.6    53.5    40.6    16.3    21.8
Internal Cash Generation             44.4    75.7    79.7    53.1    62.8
Net Income/Sales, 2                  11.6    28.8    21.1    11.8    16.6
Net Income/Total Assets, %            3.3     7.9      5.3     2.2     3.1
Current Ratio                         1.4     1.3      1.6     1.7     2.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                   31/69   28/72   31/69   29/71   24/76
Debt Service Coverage, times          2.1     2.9      2.9     2.1     2.0
7.03      Projected Financial Performance.  The Project, which is designed
to reduce current unit energy consumption and increase effective production
capacity in three ammonia plants, will enhance PUSRI's profitability and
overall financial position. Based on present sustainable operating levels,
sales are projected to increase from Rp 132 billion in 1986 to Rp 204
billion in 1991, the first year when full benefits from the Project are
expected to be earned. Net income is also projected to rise from Rp 22
billion in 1986 to Rp 40 billion in 1991. PUSRI's financial position is
expected to remain sound. Current ratio is projected at an average of 2.3,
debt/equity ratio at 13/87 (assuming no additional debt is contracted), and
debt service coverage at 2.7 times, over the period 1987-95. PUSRI's
projected financial performance is summarized below.
PUSRI - Projected Financial Data
(in billion current Rp, unless otherwise noted)
1987   1989   1991   1993    1995
Sales                              154    159    204    219      227
Net Income                          27     29     40      50      51
Internal Cash Generation            69     65     76      77      71
Net Income/Sales, (Z)             17.7   18.1   19.7   22.7    22.4
Current Ratio                      2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3      2.3
Debt/Equity Ratio                22/78  19/81  13/87   7/93    2/98
Debt/Service Coverage, times       2.3    2.0    2.6    3.2      3.6
7.04      Financial Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.  The Project's
overall financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated at 41% in April 1987
US$.  Individual FRRs are estimated at 39% for PUSRI II, 41% for PUSRI III,
and 42% for PUSRI IV. Financial cost and benefit streams are shown in
Annex 7-4. The Project's FRR is most sensitive to changes in product
prices and construction delays. A 20%-decline in ammonia and urea prices
results in an FRR of 34%. A two-year delay in project completion, on the
other hand, reduces the Project's FRR to 28%. Under a combination of
adverse situations, i.e. 20%-increase in capital cost, 20%-decrease in



- 30 -
revenues, and 20%-increase in variable costs, the Project's FRR is
estimated at 28%, still a satisfactory return. The overall and individual
FRRs, as well as their sensitivities, are sunmArized below. FRR
calculations assume an implementation period for this component of four
years based on Bank past experience with lending in the fertilizer sector
(para 3.11).
Financial Rates of Return (Before Taxes)
and Sensitivity Summary
(in Z)
Total
PUSRI II  PUSRI III  PUSRI IV   Project
(1)  Base Case                      39.2       40.6      42.2        40.8
(2)  Capital Cost Up 20%            33.8       35.5      37.0        35.5
(3)  Revenues Down 20Z              31.1       33.4      35.1        33.5
(4)  Variable Costs Up 20%          38.5       40.3      42.0        41.2
(5) Two-year Delay in
Project Completion          24.5        28.6      29.5        27.7
(6) Combination of (2),
(3) and (4) above           25.5        28.5      30.0       28.2
7.05      Financial Performance Covenants.  Assurances were obtained from
the Government that it shall continue to take, or cause to be taken, all
measures which, under conditions of efficient operation, will enable PUSRI
to meet all operating expenses from revenues, service its debt from
internal cash generation, and earn a reasonable return, after taxes, on its
assets (except fixed assets not yet in service). Such return is projected
to be satisfactory as shown in Annex 7-3.  It would imply that ex-factory
fertilizer prices would be adjusted to reflect general price increases in
energy and other inputs.
7.06      Also, assurances were obtained from PUSRI that it will (i)
maintain a current ratio of no less than 1.4; (ii) not incur any long-term
debt if, after incurring such debt, the company's debt/equity ratio will
exceed 55/45; (iii) not incur additional debt if, by so doing, the
projected debt service coverage will fall below 1.5 tines; and (iv) not
make any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any of its
outstanding debt which would materially and adversely affect its ability to
meet its financial obligations. These financial covenants were provided
for under Loans 1089-IND and 1254-IND (para 3.10) and wiere complied with.
B. Economic Analysis
7.07      Economic Costs and Benefits.  The assumptions used in the
economic analysis are described in Annex '-5. The cost and benefits are
expressed in April 1987 prices. All economic costs and benefits for
tradeable items were valued at international prices estimated to prevail
during the economic life of the Project. The local component of the
financial capital cost was translated to economic terms using a conversion
factor of 0.64. The economic analysis was carried out on an incremental



-:                               ~~~~~~~~~- 31 -
basis. In addition, the economic viability of the three plants covered by
the Project was analyzed to establish the justification for modificatlan
investments in the existing facilities.
7.08      The economic benefits of the Project are derived mainly from (i)
an increase in ammonia production through capacity optimizatior. after
meating requirements for urea production; and (ii) a decrease in specific
energy consumption. For calculating economic benefits, the future price of
bagged urea, expressed in April 1987 terms, is assumed to increase in real
terms from US$108/ton (FOB, West Europe) in 1987, to US$201/ton in 1990,
and will subsequently decline to US$187/ton in 1995 before increasing again
to US$202/ton by 2000, in accordance with Bani' projections. These prices
reflect expected future increases and the world demand and supply situation
for urea in the late 1980's and the 1990's. The FOB price of ammonia is
based on Bank-projected fertilizer prices assuming a ratio of 1.05 between
ammonia and urea prices. The economic price of natural gas is based on its
fuel oil equivalent as natural gas is, at the margin, expected to
cubstitute for fuel oil in industry. On this basis, the economic price per
mmBtu of natural gas at plant site is calculated at US$2.1 in 1987, US$2.2
in 1990, US$2.8 in 1995 and US$4.0 in 2000, based on Bank projections of
future crude oil prices.
7.09      Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.  The Project's
overall incremental economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 50% in
constant terms. The individual ERRs are estimated at 50% for PUSRI II, 48Z
for PUSRI III and 51% for PUSRI IV. The economic cash flows for the ERR
calculations are given in Annex 7-6. The results of sensitivity analysis
are summarized below. It includes an analysis of the effect of critical
variables on the economic viability of the Project, i.e. the switching
values7/, at an assumed opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rates of Return
(in %)
Total
PUSRI II PUSRI III PUSRI IV Project
(1) Base Case                        50.2      48.2       50.5      49.6
(2)  Capital Cost Up 20%             43.7      42.4       44.7      43.6
(3) Economic Benefits Down 20%       38.9      39.6       42.7      40.5
(4) Variable Cost Up 20%             49.3      47.3       50.4      48.6
(5) Delay in Completion by
two years                      29.8      31.7       33.4      31.7
(6) Combination of (2), (3),
and (4) above                  32.7      33.1       37.0      33.7
Switching Values of Selected Variablos (Z)
Capital Cost                         +302      +314       +348      +323
Sales Benefits                      -51.6      60.5       68.9     -60.2
7/  The percentage changes in economic costs and benefits that result in a
net present value of zero for the Project, or in an ERR equal to the
opportunity cost of capital.



- 32 -
7.10      The results of the sensitivity tests indicate that the Project
would remain economically viable under reasonable changes in the main
parameters. The economic attractiveness of the Project is confirmed by the
switching values of two variables--capital cost and benefits (i.e. output
prices)-to which the ERR is rather sensitive. Other things remaining as
expected, an increase of more than 323% in capital cost will result in a
negative net present value at a discount rate of 12%. Such an increase
occuring, however, is highly unlikely considering that PUSRI has a good
record of implementing projects efficiently and below estimated costs.
Changes in output prices of 52-69% are also unlikely; the Bank, in fact,
projects urea prices to increase by 4.9% p.a. from 1987 to 2000 fFr supply
to balance demand. The ERR calculations are based on an implementation
period for this component of four years based on the Bank's past experience
with lending in the fertilizer sector (para 3.11).
7.11      In considering the basic justification for energy savings
modifications, it is important to analyze, in addition to the incremental
returns, the economic viability of the plants before and after such
modifications. Therefore, an economic analysis of the individual plant
facilities, before and after the Project, was carried out taking into
account the economic value of txisting investments. Although the three
PUSRI plants are largely depreciated, they are well maintained and are
riuning profitably. Thus, the market value of these inveqtments, estimated
by PUSRI to represent about three times their book value, was used in the
economic analysis. On this basis, the economic value of existing
investments in PUSRI II, III and IV plants before the Project were
estimated at US$79 million, US$84 million and US$114 million, respectively,
in April 1987 prices. The economic analysis shows that all plants under
the Project are economically viable with positive economic cash flows over
the plants' operating life.
7.12      Foreign Exchange Savings.  The Project is expected to generate
reasonably good foreign exchange through (i) incrensed ammonia production
from the same quantity of natural gas now used owing to a lower specific
consumption; and (ii) increase in urea production. Additional ammonia
production for exports resulting from the modifications is expected to
generate net foreign exchange earnings of about US$62 million in real terms
over the economic life of the P;^cject, or an average of US$6.2 million per
year. The estimated foreign exchange savings derived from the Project are
shown in Annex 7-7.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements
8.01      The following agreements have been reached with the Government of
Indonesia, PUSRI and KONEBA:
a.   From the Government that it will:
(i) continue to take, or cause to be taken, all measures,
which, under conditions of efficient operation, will
J



- 33 -
enable PUSRI to meet all operating expenses from
revenues, service its debt from internal cash
generation, and earn a reasonable return, after taxes,
on its assets (except fixed assets not yet in service
(para 7.05);
b. From PUSRI that it will:
(i)   make available, in a timely manner, all funds,
including working capital, as and when required to
enable KONEBA to carry out its tasks (para 4.10);
(ii)  submit to the Bank project reports and financial
statements as described in para 6.06; and
(iii)  follow prudent financial practices and maintain a
satisfactory financial position as described in para
7.06.
c. From KONEBA that it will:
(i) follow prudent financial practices and maintain a
satisfactory financial position as described in para
4.12; and
(ii) complete by December 31, 1987 the design, installation
and operation of an accounting system to record all
financial transactions of KONEBA, and submit to the
Bank periodic progress reports ton the Company's
operations and financial position (para 6.07).
8.02      The following are conditions of effectiveness:
Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between ti) GOI and
PUSRI covering the PUSRI energy efficiency component, and
(ii) GOI and KONEBA covering the Energy Conservation Center
component, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.Oh); and
B. Recommendations
8.03      Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million for the PUSRI
energy efficiency and KONEBA Energy Conservation Center components is
recommended (para 5.08).
8.04      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
Project 5s suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.0 million repayable in 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the standard variable
interest rate. The Borrower will be the Republic of Indonesia.
Asia Country Department V
September 1987



INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Domestic and Economic Pricos of Petroleum Products
------Average for 1986      -------    ----------   Mid-1987-----
Share of       Domestic       Economic    Ratio of Domestic       Economic      Ratio of Domestic
Consumption        Price a/    Price  j    to Economic Price          Price        to Economic erice
(2)         ------(Rp/liter)-----               ()             (Rp/liter)             (Z)       _
Aviation turbo             2.8             250            210               119               257                 97
Gasoline super             0.4             440            218               202               266                166
Gasoline regular          16.3             385            208               185               255                151
Kerosene                  29.2             165             232               71               279                 59
Motor diesel              29.9             200            235                85               283                 71
Industrial diesel          6.2             200            221                91               268                 75
Fuel oil                  15.2             200            124               161               171                117
otal/averaze       100.0              222            212              105               258                  86
a/ Including 102 value-added tax.
b/  Average prices for 1986, plus distribution and transport costs, based on crude oil at US$13.5/bbl and converted .
at US$1 - RP 1,650.  Mid-1987 prices based on crude oil at US$18.0/bbl.
"3



- 35 -
ANNEX 2-2
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Effective Demand for Energy Conservation
Services ln Large Industrial Plants
Demand (in number of plants)
Industrial Plants          Present         Short-Term        Medium-Term
Sugar                         12                20                  64
Textiles                      15                30                 225
Plywood                        3                 6                  14
Pulp & Paper                  10                15                  24
Fertilizers                    3                 4                   6
Tires                          1                 3                  10
Other basic
chemicals                    4                 7                  18
Glass                          2                 4                   8
Cement                         1                 3                  10
Others                         5                11                  28
Total          56               103                 407
_m _m



- 36 -
AMNEX 4-1
LDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Identified Industries and Plants for Energy Audits
and Feasibility Studies
Fertilizers
1.   P. T. Pupuk Kujang
2.   P. T. Pupuk Kalimantan
-  Kaltim I and II ammonia/urea plants
3.   Acean Aceh Fertilizer
Textiles
1.   P. T. Patal Senayan
2.   P. T. Damatex
3.   P. T. Primissima
Pulp and Paper
1.   P. N. Blabak
2.   P. T. Kertas Bekasi Teguh
Tires
1.   P. T. Intirub
Glass
1.   P. T. Iglas
Synthetic Fiber
1.   P. T. South Pacific Viscose
2.   P. T. Tri Rempoa
3.   P. T. Yasinta Poly
Sugar
1.   P. T. Gunung Madu
2.   P. T. Madukismo
3.   P. T. Kebon Agung
Cement
1.   P. T. Semen Gresik
2.   P. T. Semen Baturaja
Food and Beverage
1.   P. T. Bintang Agung
2.   P. T. Miwon
Plywood
1.   P. T. Kayu Lapis Indonesia



- 37 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 7
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Energy Conservation Center
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
A. Background
1.        In order to facilitate the effective implementation and further
development of Indonesia's energy conservation policy, the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) will establish an Energy Conservation Center (Center) in
September 1986. The Center will be set up as an autonomous, commercial
entity in the form of a wholly-owned subsidiary of P. T. Pupuk Sriuidjaja
(PUSRI), a major fertilizer company in Indonesia. The Center will be
broadly entrusted with the overall planning, promotion, implementation,
coordination, monitoring and training responsibilities related to energy
conservation. In the initial years, the Center w.ll focus its attention on
the industrial sector, this sector being the largest consumer of commercial
energy. In the succeeding years, the Center will expand its sectoral
coverage to include the transport, commercial and household sectors.
2.        The Government has approached the World Bank with a request to
consider financing the technical assistance that the Center requires in the
performance of its tasks.
B. Objectives of the Consultancy Services
3.        To assist the Center in carrying out a number of priority
activities, the Center requires the services of a consulting firm for a
period of two years. The consulting firm will provide overall guidance to
the Center in its formative years, and help the Center implement the
following priority activities:
(a) design, organize and implement a national energy survey and an
industrial energy conservation incentives study;
(b) establish a national energy data bank;
(c) prepare publications, disseminate information, and carry out a
comprehensive promotional campaign;
(d) develop and implement a training program for the Center's staff
and industrial energy managers; and
(e) organize, initiate and supervise the carrying out of energy
audits and/or feasibility studies in priority industries.
C. Scope of Consulting Services
4.        The services to be provided by the consulting firm are as
follows:



- 38 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 7
4.1  Make recommendations for the improvement of the Center's institutional
set-up, organization, staffing and work program. In this regard, the
consulting firm shall carry out the following tasks:
(a) Prepare a detailed task description for the Center;
(b) Prepare an organizational manual, including organizational
charts, job descriptions and classification of the main
positions;
(c) Recommend the recruitment procedures and help the Center in the
selection and evaluation of candidates for the main positions;
and
(d) prepare a job performance evaluation program for the professional
staff of the Center.
4.2 Organize and carry out a national energy survey. The focus
of the energy survey shall be the industrial sectorl/. However, the
consulting firm shall also carry out a limited, but7representative,
survey of the transport and commercial/services sectors. The
consulting firm shall undertake the following activities:
(a) review of the existing statistical data available in
Indonesia;
(b) Design of the appropriate survey questionnaire,
(c) Selection of the industrial plants and establislhments to be
included in the survey;
(d) Selection and training of local staff (from the Center) who will
assist the consulting firm in carrying out the survey;
(e) Supervision of the local staff carrying out the survey;
(f) Visits to plants and establishments to be surveyed to (i) explain
the importance of the survey, and (ii) provide any assistance
needed in completing the questionnaire;
(g) Design or adaptation of the necessary software to process by
computer the results of the survey. The software must have the
capability to perform consistency testing of the results and
early detection of errors;
(h) Checking of the results of the survey with data available from
energy suppliers (power companies, marketing data from oil
suppliers, etc.);
(i) Carrying out an analysis of the survey; and
l/ Covered by codes 31-39 of the United Nations international standard
industrial classification (ISIC) of economic activities, plus mining.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 7
(j) Preparation of a comprehensive report on the results and analysis
of the survey.
4.3   Design a data bank and system On energy consumption and conservation
in Indonesia, and after review and approval by the Center, establish
such data bank and system. This includes the provision of the
necessary software and the training of the Center's professionals in
running and updating the data bank. The results of the energy
survey, and its periodical updating, are to be incorporated in the
data bank. In addition to this task, the consulting firm shall
organize the Center's documentation unit and a small but effective
library.
4.4   Design and supervise a campaign program to be carried out by the
Center to promote energy conservation and rationalization in the
industrial sector. The consulting firm must take ir.to consideration
that a vigorous campaign must start as early as possible and be
sustained for a period of at least two years. The campaign should be
targeted in particular to the decision makers (directors and aanagers
of enterprises, industry and professional associations, etc.), but
must reach down to the operational levels of the industrial plants.
The consulting firm shall present a detailed promotional program and
budget, including the media to be used, for the approval of the
Center prior to implementation.
4.5  Carry out a study of the constraints for energy conservation in
industry (focusing on the large and medium scale operations2/) and
propose incentiveb, based on sound economic analysis, leadiWg to
proposals for energy conservation policy and legislation.
4.6  Design a detailed training program (including an estimated budget)
for the staff of the Center and for energy managers in the industrial
sector.  The program shall cover a period of two years.   After
approval by the Center, the consulting firm will conduct such
training program.
4.7   Prepare subsector manuals on energy conservation and rationalization
tailored to the specific needs of the industrial sector in Indonesia
for the following industries: Fertilizer, Pulp and Paper, Cement,
Textiles, Sugar, Food processing, Glass and Basic Organic Chemicals.
4.8   Based on the results of the energy survey described in para 4.2,
determine the individual plants where considerable potential for
energy savings exists. Upon agreement with the Center and acceptance
of the plants selected, the consulting firm shall conduct preliminary
audits (pre-audits) in the selected plants. Eack pre-audit shall be
carried out by the consulting firm with its process expert(s), and
should take only a few days. The report that the consulting firm
shall prepare for each pre-audit must point out (i) the main areas
2/ Per Indonesian classification, large scale is with 100 or more
employees, and medium scale is with 20-99 employees.



-   40
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4 ef 7
where potential for energy savings exists, and (ii) the
recommendation for instrumentation required to carry out in-depth
energy audits.
4.9 Determine the requirements, prepare the purchase specifications, and
supervise the purchasing of the following items for the Center:
(a) Instruments, including those under para 4.8 required by the
Center;
(b) Mobile equipment;
(c) Micro computer hardware and software;
(d) Audiovisual equipment for training, seminars and workshops; and
(e) Technical information.
4.10  Based on the results of the pre-audits, select the industrial plants
where in-depth audits should be carried out.
4.11  Prepare the budget for t-.e in-depth audits, as well as the Terms of
Reference and all neceedary bidding documents for the selection of
the consultants who will carry out the in-depth audits and/or
feasibility studies. Propose a short list of international
consultants and identify local consultants who can,associate with the
international consultants for the carrying out of the in-depth audits
and/or feasibility studies.
In the preparation of such TOR and bidding documents, the consulting
firm should note that the in-depth audits must meet the following
requirements:
(a) They shall include complete material and energy balances,
estimates of the energy savings from improved operational and
maintenance procedures, and estimates of potential energy
savings from equipment or process improvements or modifications;
(b) For the improved operational and maintenance procedures, their
detailed description and implementation scheme shall b'e part of
the in-depth audit report;
(c) For the equipment and process improvements, the investment
required and changes in operating costs must be calculated and
included in the report, as well an assessment of the technical,
economic and financial feasibility of the proposed investment;
(d) The in-depth audits are to be carried out after the Center and
the enterprise involved have reached an agreement and entered
into a contract; and



- 41 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 5 of 7
(e)  After the in-depth audit report is reviewed and approved by the
Center and the enterprise involved, and the enterprise decides
to proceed with a feasibility study, then the consultant, under
the supervision of the consulting firm, may start such a study.
A feasibility study must include the basic design and full
bidding documents for the project.
4.12 Evaluate the proposals and recommend the selection of the
consultant(s) who will carry out the in-depth audits and/or
feasibility studies.
4.13  Supervise the execution of the in-depth audits and fe  _.bility
studies. The consulting firm must make all po_sibie effort to ensure
that the staff of the Center as well as plant staff participate
actively during the pre-audits, in-depth audits and feasibility
studies.
4.14 Organize two yearly seminars on energy conservation and inter-fuel
substitution: one for Government officials and managers of private
and public enterprises and the other, more technically oriented, for
specialists and industrial energy managers.
4.15 Provide continuous technical and management advice to the
President-Director in the operation of the Center for two years.
D. Reporting Requiranents and Time Schedule
5.        The consulting firm shall prepare and submit to the Center
reports on the following aspects:
(a) Institutional set-up and organization (containing all items
referred to in para 4.1);
(b) Methodology, results and analysis of the energy survey;
(c) Promotional campaign program;
(d)  Industrial energy conservation policy, incentives and
legislation study;
(e) Training program (and budget) and manuals;
(f)  Industrial subsector Prergy manuals (referred to in para
4.7);
(g) Documentation unit of the Center; and
(h) Proceedings of the seminars (referred to in para 4.14).
6.        Besides these reports, the consulting firm shall submit quarterly
report containing the progress achieved, unresolved issues and
recommendations, and detailed work plan for the next quarter. At the end



- 42 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 6 of 7
of the assignment, the consulting firm shall submit a completion report,
covering in full detail all areas of the work performed, as well as final
recommendations for the further development of the Center. The completion
report should also contain the consulting firm's recommendation on an
effective approach that the Center should adopt to implement and energy
conservation program in the transportation and commercial/services sectors.
7.        The estimated time schedule of activities and completion of
reports is contained in Attachment 1 of these Terms of Reference.
E. Organization of Work
8.        The consulting firm shall provide the services specified under
these Terms of Reference through an Advisory Team and Support Resources.
8.1   The Advisory Team, which will be maintained in Indonesia for two
years, shall consist of a senior engineer/manager assisted by a
senior engineer. The senior engineer/manager will function as an
advisor to the Center, and as such, he will be directly responsible
to the President-Director of the Center. In addition, he will be the
coordinator of all the activities of the consulting firm related to
the Energy Conservation Center. He must have a strong technical
background in process engineering and experience in energy
conservation projects, combined with industrial and program
management experience.
8.2   The senior engineer will report to the senior engineer/manager and
will act as his deputy during his absence. His qualifications must
be similar to those of the senior engineer/manager.
9.        Although the Advisory Team will be the primary resource that the
consulting firm will provide to carry out the tasks specified under these
terms of reference, the consulting firm is solely responsible for the
satisfactory timely completion of all tasks. Therefore, the consulting
firm shall also provide all resources from its home office as required to
supplement and/or complement the services provided by the Advisory Team.
The Support Resources provided by the consulting firm will include
personnel working in the consulting firm's home office, or in Indonesia on
an interim basis.
F. Data and Service to be Provided by the Center
10.       The Center will provide the consulting firm with access to all
available data relevant to the consulting services, and provide an
inventory of such data. The data shall include, but not be limited to (i)
past reports prepared by or for the Government on energy conservation; (ii)
statistical information on energy production, consumption and conservation;
(iii) information related to energy research and technology development;
(iv) detailed information on the organization, composition (i.e. major
industries, sub-industries, plants, capacities, etc.) and energy



- 43 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 7 of 7
consumption of the Industrial sector in Indonesia; (v) Government policies,
rules and regulations relevant to energy conservation; and (vi) other
data/information whichi would be required by the consulting firm in the
performance of its tasks.
11.       The Center will likewise provide the consulting firm with the
assistance of the Center's staff, particularly in the carrying out of the
energy survey and pre-audits, as well as normal facilities (office space,
office equipment, etc.) required by the consulting firm in the performance
of its assignment.



- 44 -
ZUEUTA - XIDU3STL            CON3UATZ   PROJE                 A     s 4-3
ZOEDA - arW  Commtawrm        Cetee                      Pag* 1 of 3
lo Peis Dslanas Sheet
(in _vrmmt Up KLILLo.
1967    193      199      1990    1"1       1992    1993      1994     1"5    1i9
ASMSE
CzOu t Assets
Cash                                SI       *5       87       90      1U7      193      200      206     213      220
Ree Lvables                        110      120      207      296      926    1.046    1.012    1.119    1.153    1.199
---      ---      ---      -_        _ -- ---  ---    ---      ---
Total Curr nt Assets                  191      205      294      313    1.113    1,239    1,252    1,325    1.371    1.419
Suzplus Cash                      -        -        -         775   1.411    2,542    3.835    5.26      '."'3   ,563
FLx-d Asets                              362      690      344      955    1.096    1.096   1.146    1.196    1,246   1.296
Les -AcaunmaLtd Depreciation          -         24       43       72       96      315      520      735      960   1.195
ot FLusd Asssets                      362      66f      796       S33    1.000     731      620      461      236     101
Istsglble Assets                       2.331    4.897    7,604    9.566   12,057   12.057   12.057   12.057   12.057   12.057
LassJAacinclA1tod AwsattzatLos        -        -        -        -        -      1.717    3.434    5,151    6.63   5.535
Not XtsssLble Assets                2,331    4.597    7,604    9,566   12.057   10.340    1.623    6.906    5.139   3.472
Total Assets                           2.384    5,768   8,694   11,612   15,561   14,902   14.366   13.960   3,6S9   13.555
LIASZLUIE
Currznt LiabiLities
Accounts Payable                   163      170      175      131      187      195      204      211      219      229
Cuszrnt Portieo of LT Debt         -        -        -                 742      742      742      742      742      742
Totial Current LlablILties            163      170      175      131      929      937      946      953      961     971
Long Terr Debt                        726   2,492    4,356    5.709    6.663    5,940    5.197    4,455    3.713    2.970
Share Capital                       2.717    4.201    4,677    5.233    5,940    5,940    5.940   5.940    5.940    5.940
Retained Eanins                      (722)  t1.095)   (C14)      489   2.029    2,085    2,283    2,612    3,075    3,674
Total Zquity                        1.995    3,106    4,163    5.722    7,969    S.025    8,223    8,552    9.015   9.614
Total LLsbilities                      2,384    5,768    3.694   11,612   15,561   14,902   14,366   13.960   13,669   13.555
MO It_e:
Curr st Ratio                            1.2      1.2      1.7      2.1      1.2      1.3      1.4      1.4      1.4      1.5
Debt/Zqulty Ratio                      27173   45155    5l149    50150    46154    43157    39161    341/6    29/71    24176



- 45      -
zmauKZA -   USn=L         CO VAUZOU PRMOJ                                     Page 2 of 3
WEED" - herqw C..ea.wvat Custer
PMs V ~ Ime   stagmsa
(in ourrust Up '.11216)
1967    1g33      1969     1990    1991      1972     1993    1994    199        1996
Revenu
Imezgy Ailta                          -        334      493    1,021    2,113    2.734    2r629    2.928    3,031    3,137
neaalbLhitv StudiSa                   19      206      351      nS       910      941      973    1.007    1.042    1.075
Con.ultancy a Information             56        97      242      250      258      267      274    2a5        294      304
Training                                        '5       73      227      235      243      251      259      268      277
Total Reinyue                         252      672    1.659    2,378   3.516    4.135    4.32      4.479   4,635    4.796
operating Costs
P ra.mel                              549      576      596      616      637      459      682      705      729      754
Office Reantl & UUiLties              15S      163      16       173      179      185      191      197      203      210
Telephone   STelex                     65       6S       70       72       74       76       75        U       82       84
Supplies                               *1       a5       37       90       93       96       99      102      105      10S
AdvertiIng/lremtLoSn                  123      129      133      137      141      145      150      155      160       165
DoprecLatLon S Amortl-atLon.           -        24       24       24       24    1.937    1,923    1,933    1.943    1.953
Total Operating Costs                 974    1.045    1.075    1.112   1.148    3.098    3.123    3,172    3.222    3.274
Gross ProfLt                            (722)    (373)     581    1,266   2.363    1,087    1,206    1.307    1.413    1.522
Interest charges                         -        -        -        -        -      1.002      902      302      701      601
Profit Zefore TaxSs                     (722)    (373)    5S1    1.266   2.368         85      304      505      712      921
IncormmI                                 -        -        -        263      38o       29      106      176      249      322
Sat Income  tArm  Taxes                 (722)    (373)     581    1.003    1.340       56      195      329      463      S99
,i,-                                           -                   -       --                                 - .-  -. :



- 46 -
AN= 4-3
page 3 of 3
10U33?A - XINXSlZAL  8AT COIIOIYATI  P TOJT
Mo0MM& - hazuy Conservation Ccnter
wo Frorn Funds nev satement
(is eurent Up NLilLa.)
1937     1933     1969     1990     191      1992      993     1994     1995     1996
Net Lncome After t  --                  C722)    (373)    5S1    1.003    1.540         56      198      32       463      599
Add:
Deprzealatio   AmorttatIon       -         24       24        24       24    1.937    1.923    1.933    1.943    1,953
intereJt an LT Debt a)                                      -        -       1.002      902  * 02         701      601
Internal Caxh C-neratlon                (722)    (349)     605    :,027    1.564    2,995    3.023    3.064    3.107   3,153
LT Loans
Disbueaement XED Loan                 726    1.766     1,3K    1,353    1.716           -         -            -        -
EquLty Contributeon                 2.717    1.434      476       556      707      -        -        -        -        -
____    -----             -----    -----    -----     -----
Total Sources                       2.721    2.901   2,945    2.936    3.957    2,995    3.023    3.064    3,107    3.153
USES
Debt Servlce
Interest on LT Debt                    49      217      462      679      8S7    1.002       902      802      701      601
LT Debt Repay ent                     -        -        -        -         -        742      742      742      742      742
Total Debt ServLce                     49      217      462      679      U37    1,744    1,644    1.544    1.443    1,343
lncrease lCDcreaa) In Vozklng             23        6        4       87      71        120       36       37       39       40
Capital
Capxal. Expendttursa                   2.644    2,676    2.399    1.395    1.746       -         50       50       so       SO
Total Uses                          2.721    2.901    2,945    2,161    3.351    1.664    1.730    1,631    1.532   1,433
sirplus Funds                            -        -        -        775       636    1.131    1.293    1.433    1.575    1.720
AcckiuLated SurpLus Cash                 -         -        -        775    1.411    2.542    3.835    5.268    6.843   8,563
Mu I  tem:
Debt SeriVce Coverage                                      1.3       1.5      1.8      1.7      1.3      2.0      2.2      2.3
a) Interst during the develpm_nt period La capitalize.



-  7-                                        A8  5-1
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENER=Y CONSERVATION PROJECT
Detailed Capital Cost Estimates f
---billion Rupia--   --illion U$S-  Foreign
as Z of
Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign  Local  Total   Total
Energy Conservation Center
Technical Assistance                    2.7      0.3      3.0      1.6     0.2    1.8      89
Training                                0.3      0.2      0.5      0.2     0.1    0.3      67
Energy Audits and
Feasibility Studies                  2.7       0.3     3.0       1.6     0.2    1.8      89
;njstrumentation                       0.5        -      0.5       0.3      -     0.3    100
Fixtures & Vehicles                      -       0.2      0.2       -      0.1    0.1       -
Operating Costs b/                       -       1.2      1.2       -      0.7    0.7       -
Base Cost Estimate                      6.2      2.2      8.4      3.7     1.3    5.0      74
Physical Contingencies c/               1.0      0.3      1.3      0.6     0.2    0.8      75
Price Escalation                       0.3       0.3     0.6       0.2     0.2    0.4      50
Working Capital                          -       0.3     0.3        -      0.2    0.2       -
Total Component Cost                         7.5      3.1    10.6       4.5      1.9    o.4     70
Interest During Development                  1.7      1.2      2.9      1.0     0.7    1.7      59
Total Financing Required                     9.2      4.3    13.5       5.5      2.6    8.1     68
PUSRI Energy Efficiency
Engineering Services                    5.1      1.7     6.8       3.1     1.0    4.1      76
Royalties and Licence Fees              5.4       -       5.4      3.3      -      3.3    100
Equipment and Materials               10.9       0.2    11.1       6.6     0.1    6.7      99
Freight and Insurance                   1.3      1.3     2.6       0.8     0.8    1.6      50
Construction                            0.7      5.2      5.9      0.4     3.2    3.6      11
Start-up and Commissioning             0.3       0.5     0.8       0.2     0.3    0.5      40
Base Cost Estimate                    23.7       8.9    32.6      14.4     5.4   19.8      73
Physical Contingencies .                2.3      0.8      3.1      1.4     0.5    1.9      74
Price Escalation                        1.2      1.0     2.2       0.7     0.6    1.3      54
Total Component Cost                        27.2     10.7    37.9      16.5     6.5   23.0      72
Interest During Construction                 4.9      3.3     8.2       3.0     2.0    5.0      60
Total Financing Required                    32.1     14.0    46.1      19.5     8.5   28.0      70
Total Project Financing Required            41.3     18.3    59.6      25.0    11.1   36.1      69
a/   Base cost estimates expressed .a March 1987 prices for the PUSRI Component and the Energy
Conservation Component.
Exchange rate used: US$1 - Rp. 1,650, as of March 1987.
b/   For the Center's first year of operation.
c/   15Z of base cost estimuete.
d/   101 of base cost estiate.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5-2
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Estinated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
(in US$ Thousands)
Bank Fiscal                                                      Cumulative    East Asia/l
Year and                                                         Disburse-      Pacific
Semester     PUSRI      z     KONEBA       %      Total    X      ment        Profile (1)
1988
12/31/87      1,000    6.1       440       9.8    1,440    6.9       1,440          7
06/30/88      1,200    7.3        440      9.8    1,640    7.8       3,080           7
1989
12/31/88      3,700   22.4       630      14.0    4,330   20.6       7,410         11
06/30/89      3,700   22.4        630     14.0    4,330   20.6    11,740            11
1990
12/31/89      3,000   18.2       500      11.1    3,500   16.7    15,240           12
06/30/90      3,000   18.2        490     10.9    3,490   16.6    18,730            11
1991
12/31/90        900    5.4       330       7.3    1,230    5.9    19,960           11
06/30/91          -       -       300      6.7       300    1.4    20,260           8
1992
12/31/91          -       -       290      6.4       290    1.4    20,550           8
06/30/92          -       -       250      5.6       250    1.2    20,800           6
1993
12/31/92          -       -       200      4.4       200    0.9    21,000           8
16,500    100    4,500      100    21,000  100.0                     100.0
a/ For Technical Assistance/General Loans.



-    49                 ~           ANNEX 5-3
INDONESIA -INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Bank Loan Allocation
Category                           US$ million      Eligible Expenditures
A.   PUSRI Component
(a)  Equipment, materials        6.6           100Z of foreign exchange
and spare parts                           cost for direct imports,
95% of ex-factory price
of locally manufactured
items, and 65% of total
expenditures for items
imported but procured
locally.
(b)  Engineering services        6.0           100%
(including royalties
and license fees)
*c;  Unallocated                 3.9
Subtotal             16.5
B.   Energy Conservation
Center Component
(a)  Instrumentation,            0.3           100% of foreign exchange
Vehicles & Fixtures                       cost for direct imports,
95% of ex-factory price
of locally manufactured
items, and 65% of total
expenditures for items
imported but procured
locally.
(b)  Consultancy services
and external training       2.0           100%
(c) Energy audits and
feasibility studies         1.7           100%
(d)  Unallocated                 0.5
Subtotal              4.5
Total Bank Loan      21.0
Aff  . k  -..-i



_    50    -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CDNSERVATION PROJECT
Assumptions Used for Financial Analysis
A.  PUSRI Energy Efficiency Component
1.        Basis for Projections.  Project life is assumed to be 10 years
after energy savings modifications, with no salvage value at the end. The
financial projections were carried out in current Rupiah using the
following inflation rates: (a) annual domestic inflation of 1U% in 1987,
5% in 1988 and 3.5% in 1989 and thereafter; and (b) international inflation
rates of 3.0% in 1987, 1.0% p.a. in 1988-90 and 3.5% in 1991 and
thereafter. The cost and benefit streams were expressed in April 1987
terms for the calculation of the financial rates of return. The
assumptions used for capacities and capacity utilization with and without
the Project and the forecast production levels are given in Anniel 7-5.
The PUSRI Marketing Unit operates on a no profit no loss basis with
Government compensating PUSRI for any shortfall in revenues to cover the
cost of fertilizer distributed on behalf of Government. Accordingly,
income projections were prepared for the Production Unit only excluding
PUSRI I being or phased out, while other financial projections (balance
sheet and funds flow) take into account overall PUSRI operations.
2.        Sales Revenues.  Sales revenues were calculated using urea prices
based on total standard production cost at 97% capacity utilization
(including interest end depreciation) plus a margin of Rp 6,00U/ton plus
(minu4) ten percent of the difference between a preset standard cost at 97%
capacity utilization and the actual cost. This margin was assumed to be
maintained in real terms. Ammonia revenues from exports were based on
projected international FOB prices.
3.        Variable Production Costs.  Annual consumption of inputs was
based on the material and utility balances before and after the Project for
individual plants. Details of raw materials and utilities consumption and
product and output before and after the modifications are given in Annex
7-5. Currently, the price of gas to the fertilizer industry is
US$1l0/mmBtu.
4.        Depreciation.  Fixed assets are depreciated using the double
declining balance at rates (as a percentage of their net value of fixed
assets) determined as follows: building and inland depots 5%; plant
machinery and equipment; office equipment and ships 25%; vehicles 50%; dock
equipment and wagons 10%.
5.        Interest Expense.  The outstanding balances and interest expenses
for the IBRD and other foreign loans are calculated in US Dollars and
converted into Rupiah using an exchange rate of Rp 1,650/US$1.0.
6.        Taxes.  A tax rate of 35% was used in accordance with present
Indonesian laws.



- 51 -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 2 of 3
7.        Investments. Equity investments by PUSRI in the Center are
accounted for using the cost method and were valued at cost.
B. KONEBA - Energy Conservation Center Component
8.        Basis for Projections. The financial projections for KONEBA were
carried out in current Rupiah using the same international and local
inflation rates as those outlined in para I of this Annex.
9.        Revenues. The assumptions used in revenue estimates shown below
were basLd on a programme of work for KONEBA derived from a detailed study
of the existing and potential demand for energy conservation in Indonesia.
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992-96
a. Energy Audits
Number of audits          -      7    10   15   20          25
Fee per audit
(in '000 Rp.)                           82,500
b. Feasibility Studies
Number of studies          1     1    2      2     2         2
Fee per study
(in '000 Rp.)                    -       356,000 -
c. Consultancy Services
Man-months                15   25    25   30    30          30
Fee per man month
(in '000 Rp.)                 ---    5,100  --
d. Informations Services
Number of clients         15   30    50   50    50          50
Fee per client
(in 'UOO Rp.)                --         1,650 --
e. Training
Number of courses          -     4     8    12   12         12
Man-month per course                 ---- 3 ---
Fee per man-month                         5,100
(in '000 Rp.)
During the first two years of operations, a discount of 50% would be
provided by the Center on services rendered as part of its promotional
program.
10.       Operating Costs.  Personel costs are expected to represent about
55Z of total operating (excluding depreciation and amortization) costs. A



_ 52 -
ANNEX 7-1
Page 3 of 3
detailed staffing list including the respective salaries was prepared by
KONEBA to calculate the Company's salary expense. These salaries were
based on prevailing market rates. Social overhead was calculated at 100I
-of the salary base. KONEBA's overall salary expense, including social
overhead is calculated at Rp 549 million in 1987. Other operating costs
include office rental and utilities (Rp 156 million p.a.), general supplies
('tp 81 million), telephone and telex (Rp 65 million) and an advertising and
promotion program estimated to cost Rp 123 million p.a.
11.       Development Costs.  Expenses incurred during the first three
years of operations were capitalized and then amortized over an eight-year
period. Interest during development on the IBRD loan during the grace
period was capitalized and amortized over a period of five years. Other
fixed assets such as vehicles and fixtures, expected to represent a limited
share of KONEBA's total assets, were depreciated over five years also.
12.       Taxes.  A tax rate of 35% was used consistent with present
Indonesian laws for similar commercial enterprises. A loss-carry-forward
period of five years was assumed in the analysis.
13.       Long Term Debt and Interest Expense.  The outstanding balances
and interest expenses for the IBRD loan were calculated in US Dollars and
converted into Rupiah using an exchange rate of Rp 1,650/US$1.0.  The
onlending terms of the IBRD loan to KONEBA would be 15 years including 5
years of grace at 13.5Z. No payments of dividends by KONEBA were assumed.



- 53 -
AMX 7-2
page 1 Of 3
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL KNEW1Y CONSEIVATION PROJECT
PUSRI - Historical Coamlidated Blance Sbeets (1980-84)
(in Killion current Rp)
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985        1986
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cah                               68.057    77.693   183.276    203,791   203.482   237,234
lettera of Credit                 19.725    13,335    15.507     20.961    14,lS0     5,154
Receivables                       69,196   106.667   110,681     76.255   151.521   149.935
Inventories                       78.063   102.556   105,801    112,559    93,962   104,752
Governent Compensatlon            27,897    25,754    44,516     48.817    65.193         -
Prepaid Efpenes                   38.372    62.300    79.177     73.053    17.850     5.865
Sub-total                        301,310   388,305   538,958    535,436   546.158   502,943
Non Current Assets                   400       400       400        400       400       400
Net Flxed Assets
Assets in Service             170.375   153,694   179,159    159.136   158.446   157,012
Construction ln Progress       11.355    30,268    19.591     34.492    20.221    22.498
Sub-total                     181,730   183,962   198,750    193.628   178.667   179.510
Other Assets                       6.484     9,990    31.595     32.999   -29.570    27,254
Total Assets               489,924   582,657   769,703    762.463   754.795   710.107
LIABILITIES AND SUAREQOLDERS'
KOUIT!
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable
and Accrued Liabilities      112,781   203,525   233,587    225,945   172.771    54,334
Current Portion of LT Debt
and Short-Term Bank Loans     67,949    69,728   171,161    106,872   148.763   157.334
Subtotal                   180,730   273,253   404.748   332,817    321.534   211.668
Long Term Debt                 95.690   96.519   102.463   134.837    126,849   121,298
Equity
Paid in Capital&              145.000   146,588   152.812   217.721    223.234   276.566
Retained Earnings              33,488    31.281    74,664    77,088     83,178   100,575
Fixed Assets llevaluation      35.016    35,016    35.016         -          -         -
Surplus
Sub-total                213,504   212,885   262,492   294,809    306.412   377.141
Total LiabiliLtles and
Shareholders' Equity       489.924   582,657   769,703   762.463    754.795   710,107
Current Ratio                    1.7       1.4       1.3       1.6         1.7        2.4
Debt/Equity Ratio               31/69     31/69     28/72     31/69      29/71     24/76
Return on Assets                 3.7       3.3       7.9       5.3         2.2        3.1
a/  Includes share capital and calls received in advance.
Source: PUSRI



- 54-                               hm1AM=  7-2
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
PUShI - Historical Income Statement for the Years EndAd December 31
(in million current Rp)
1981         1982      1983        1984         1985         1986
Marketlng Unit Operation
Sales                                   178,580      194,626   287.432    326,841    368,797    467,294
lAss:  Cost of Sales                    133,588      145,324   216,243    237,445    206,413    281,404
Gross Income                     44,992       49,302    71.189       89,396    162,384    185.890
Less: Expenses:
Regional Marketlig               45,466       47,971    62,734       80,485      79,281     73,642
Corporate Marketing              10.551       14,069    22,590       30,101    105.741      95.242
Marketing Income/(Loss)         (11,025)    (12,738)  (14,135)   (21,190)   (22,638)    17,006
Other Income/(expenses)          (4,835)      (4,817)  (10,233)    (8,475)    (4,747)   (14,780)
Marketing loss                  (15,860)    (17,555)  (24.368)   (29,665)   (27,385)          2.226
Government Compensation a/       15,860       17,555    24.368       29.665      27,385           -
-0-          -0-       -0-         -0-          -0-       2,226
Production Unit Operation
Sales                                   123,343     151,501   185,629    192,646    138,939    131,724
Less:  Cost of Sales                     94,944      121,324   136,043    150.341    141.267    129.910
Gross Income/(Loss)              28,399       30,177    49,586       42,305      (2,328)      1,814
Other Income/(Expenses)          (1,113)       1,701    14,603       19,974      25,560     23,556
Production Unit Net Income       27,286       31,878    64,189       62,279     23,232      25.370
Income Before Corporate Income Tax    27,286         31,878    64,189       62,279      23,232      25,370
less: Provision for
Corporate Income Tax             11.089       14,283    10,652       21.717       6.905      3,553
Net Income After Income Tax              16,197       17,595    53,537      40.562      16.327      21.817
Add:   Retained Earnings
Beginning of Year               55,219       33,490    31,283       74,667     77,091      83,181
Less:  Prior year adjustment              4,133        2,455      3,262     15,247      (2,479)    (2,108)
Dividend Paid/payable                       -o-       17,347      6,891     10,894      12,716       6.531
Transfer to Capital                      33,793          -o-        -o-     11.997         -o-           -
17,293      13,688    21,130       36,529      66,854      78.758
Retained Earnings Ending Year            33.490       31,283    74.667      77,091      83.181    100,575
Net Income/Sales (Z)                      13.1         11.6       28.8       21.1         11.8          16.6
a/ Government makes up losses on products marketed on behalf of Government.
Source: PUSRI



- 55 -
ANNEX 7-2
Page 3 of 3
INDONESlKA NDUSTRIAL EEERGY CDNSERYATION PROJECT
PUSRS - fistorical Funds Flow Statement (1981-85)
(In million current Rp)
soUces
1981      1982      1983     1984       1985      1986
Net Income After Tax                       16,197    17,595   53,537    40,562   16,327    21,817
Add:  Depreciation                       17,.834    26.824   22,206    39,096   36,757    40.935
Internal Cash Generation                34,031    44,419   75,743    79,658   53,084    62,752
Prior Year Adjustment                     (37,927)aI (2.455)  (3.262)  (15,247)   2,479       2,111
'Increase/(Decrease) In calls received
in advance                              (24,475)    1,588    6,224    17,896    5,513    26,176
Increase/(Decrease) In long term loans        507        719    5,944    34,199   (7,988)   (5.551)
Increase/(Decrease) in long term
advances                                 (1.775)       109        -    (1,825)        -          -
Increase in Capital                        65,000          -        -          -        -          -
Increase in Surplus Revaluation
of Fixed Assets                           6.070          -        -          -        -    27,156
Total Sources                       41,431    44,380   84,649   114.681   53,088   112,644
USES
Increase in Fixed Assets                    8,792    10,143   47,671    19,073   36.067   39,694
Increase/(Decrease) in Construction
in Progress                                (169)   18,913  (10,677)   14.901  (14.271)   2,277
Increase/(Decrease) in Project Funds        5,889    (6.555)   2,887      7,176  (16.708)    (174)
Increase in investments                     3,990    3,341    7,293      7,510      1,60;      (338)
Increase/(Decrease) in deferred
expenditures                                831       209   (1,241)   (6,106)    3.613    (2,171)
Increase/(Decrease) in deferred
Corporate Tax                                 -        -   15,553          -    (8,649)         -
Dividend Paid/Payable.                          -   17,348    6,891    10.895    12,716       6.531
Decrease in other non current
liabilities                               5,487        -         -         -          -         -
Increase in Working Capital                16.611      981   16,272    61.232    38.713    66.825
Total                                   41,431   44,380   84.649   114,681    53,088   112,644
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                  2.8       2.1     2.9         2.9        2.1         2.0
a/ Includes transfer to capital of Rp 33,793 million.
Source: PUSRI



- -r56 
AIU 7-3
DIDaMIASI - INDTL DIOWY CONSVATOII mOJc                 ---------
--------------------------------------------     Pa    I of 3
PUSRI - Projected Balance Shoat
(in currant Rp Million)
1987     1988 -   1989     1990     1991     1992     1993       1994      1995      1996
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash far Operations              233.593  236.928  239.958  242.320  248.684  249.529  250.331   255.039   260.603   264.399
Rcdeivables                      154.076  157.020  159.303  163.666  166,947  168,361  179,375   182.130   15B.798   188.710
Prepaid Ezpanses                  14.233   14.502   14.719   15.173   15.660   16.133   15.888    16.246    16.659    16.974
Inventories                      107.853  L09.914   1l.SlZ  114.566  118.085  119.25  126.875   128.823   131.413   133.478
Total Current AsJets            509.755  518.364  525.492  535.725  549.376  553.648  572.469   582.239   594.478   603.561
Surplus Cash                     16.627   23.048  27.920   31.021   49.544   69.900   79.138    92.643   106.190   113.653
Znv"e*t ts
-In E.C.Cmnter                     3..    1.197    2.092    2.741    3.564    3.564    3.564      3.564     3.564     3.564
-Other                          27.654   27.654   27.654   27.654   27.65'  27.654   27.654    27.654    27.654    27.654
Total Investm r ts                  28.003   cno.851   29.746   30.395   31.218   31.218   31.218    31.218   31.218    31.218
1ixed Assets
Land                               7.328    7,328    7.328    7.328   7,328    7.328    7,328       7.328    7.328       7.328
Property.Plant LE4uipment        438.326  438.326 438.326  438.326  489.896  489.896 489.896   489.896   489.896   489.896
Less:Accmalated, Depreciation     293.730  317.968  339.462  350.663  373.901  394.600  413.376   430.695   446.906   462.273
Not Fined Assets                 151.924  127.686  106.192   94.991  123.323  102.624   83.848    66.529   50.318    34.95L
Constutctios in irngres             1,22_   29.8640  46.439   51.570        -        -        -        -         -
Total Assets                       717,537  727.789  735.789  743.702  753,461  757.390  766.673   772.628   7B2.304   783.383
------ ----------
Current Liabilitie
Accounts Payable                 199.271  203.030 206.067  212.432  222,728  233.037  238.330   240.038   249.891   230.105
Current Portion of LT Debt        22.618   17.596   19.412   16.592   20,922   15.89S   15.895    15.341    11.016      9.17S
Total Current LiabilLtie         221.889  220.626  225.479  229.024  243,650  248.932  254.225   255.429   260.907   239.280
Long Tare Debt                     110.330  107.753   99.396   89.239   68.317   52.422   36.527    21.136    10.170        99S
Share Capital                      276.566  276.S66 276.566  276.566  276.566  276.566  276.566   276.566   276.S66   276.566
Detained ganiegs                   108.752  122.84   134.348  148.873  164.928  179.470  199.355   219.447   234.661   266.542
Total L1abilities and
_____________________
9hrahLders equity                 717.537  727.789  735.789  743.702  753.461  757.390  766.673   772.628   782.304   783.383
- ----------------
C  mt ratio                              2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3      2.2       2.3       2.3       2.3       2.!
DebtI(D*bt+qDity) (C)                  22178    21/79    19/181    17/83    13187    10/90     7193      4/96      219B    Ol/CC
REtur  on Ases(z)                        3.8      3.9      3.9      3.9      5.4       6.4      6.5       6.5       6.5       GJ



-     57        _
Pae 2 of 3
nMM=Xh - DIDU3!RA    UY MuMou PROJmC
POSRI  a) - Projeotad  nemme Statent
Cia currant Up HlUllon)
1967     196      1969     1990     1991     1992     199)      1994      1995      1996
Urns                               154.076  157.020  159.303  163.666  186.695  191,101  188.366   191,732   195,711   196.426
Aino-La                                -        -                 -      16.700   30,427   30,387    30.378    30,672    31.707
Tatal Rave11s                      154.076  157.020  159,3J3  163,646  203.595 221,528  218.751   222.110   226,583   230,135
Variable Caets
Natural Ca"                         79.908   60,707   6L,514   82,332   90.900   96.911   93.453    96,725   100.110   103,614
Catalyst/CbemiLels                   2,947    2.913    2,921    2,929    3.226    3,362    3,396      3.431     3,467     3.505
Others                                 492      482       482      487      517      531      537       543       550       556
SaWg1a                               4.273    4.466    4.643    4,505    4.973    5,147    5,327      5.513     5,705     5,904
Total Variable Cost                 *7.620  86.546   69.560   90.553   99.616  105.951  102,713   106.212   109,832   113.579
Fixed CDots.
Labor                                1.648    1.731    1,791    1,854    1,919    1,964   2.056       2,127     2,202     2,279
-alnteanace S Supplies               2,683    2,513    2,916    4.946    5.142    5,322    6.254      6,473     6,699     6,933
inarance                               782      621      349    1,074    1.112    1.151    1,191      1,233     1,276     1.321
General & AduLa.Ezpenses            12,536   13,163   13,623   14,100   14.594   15,104   15.633    16.180    16,747   17,333
Ovexrhad                            31.109   32.665   33.806   34,991   36,216   37,483   38,795    40,153    41,553    43,013
Deprecltlen                          5.959    5,235    4,643    4,196   15.407   12,261    9.696      6,138     6.788     4,151
Total lied Opera tzi   Costs        54,717   56,433   57.630   61,163   74,390   73,307   73.a27    74,304    75,270   75,030
Gross Operating M=ome                 11,739   11,99S   12,113   11,930   29,569   42,270   42,211   41.594    41,481    41,526
Less: Interet Cbirges                  3,659    3,059    2,784    2,606    3.626    2,680    2.268      1.655     1,043       248
Add: Other 3acene                     33,646   34,416  3-A,917   35,369   35,766  35,183   36,536    37,337    37,S80    40,467
Profit Jefore  Tanes                  41,926   43,356   ;.u246  44,691   61,749   74,573   76,479    77,276    78,018   51,745
Inome TaS                             14,674   13,:t5  15.486   15,641   21,612   26,100   26,767    27,046    27,306   26,610
Mac Income                            27,254   28.183   28,760   29,050   40,137   40,473   49,712   50.230    50,712   53,335
Not IncomeISalas CX)                    17.7     17.9    18.1    17.7    19.7    21.9          22.7      22.6      22.4      23.1
A) For the productio enlt only



_     58      -
AC  7-3
IIOS8ZA - ZUDUSZRL1L JMin   CoUIEnv*u v.OJu C         Pge 3 of 3
Po   - izjewed rams now Statemet
(la earcnt Rp  LIUI)
197     198      1299    1990    1991       192      1993      1994      199MS     996
SOURE
Net Lnom Afte-r Ta                   27.254   28.83   28.760  2".050   40,137   46,473   49.712    30.230   50.712   53.135
Depr eDattlo                   27.586  24.238   21.494   11.201  23.236   20.69    18.776   17.319   16,211   15.367
interest an LT Debt            13.784   11.960   14.003  12.769  12.29S    9.9a6    7,979       6,009     4,337    3.199
______   ------   ------   ------   ------  ------   ------    ------    ------    ____
Internal Cash Generation       63,624   64.381   65.037  53.020  75.670   79.158   76,467    73.550    71.260   71,701
Long~ Taco Loans
Disbuzsment IR3D Loan               1.650    3.065   11.053    6.435      -        -        -        -         -         -
Disbursements Other Loam           10,000    6.934      -        -        -        -        -        -         -        _
Total SourCaa                    30,274   79,400   76.112   59.433  75,670   79.15    76.467    73.558   71.260    71.701
Debt Service
Interest on LT Debt                23,784   11.960   14.603  12.769  12,295    9.986    7.979       6.009     4.337    3.199
LT Debt Uepament                   16.543  22,618   17,596   19.412  16.592   20,922   15.895    15.895   13.341   11.016
Debt Sezvlce                       30,327   34.578  32.399  32,161  28.687   30.905   23.874    21.904    19,678   14,215
Increasa Lin Morking Capital          2.666    4.350    4,091    3.86S    3.355   (6.037)  13,528     8.011    2,437   28,869
Investments                             349      s8h      895      649      823      -        -        -        -         -
Increase In Fixed Assets             11.228   18.612   16.599   5,131       -        -        -        -
Dlvidends                            19,077   14.091   17.256  14.525  24,082   33,931   29.827    30,138    35.498   21.234
Surplus Funds                        16.627    6,421    4,872    3.101  18.523   20,356    9.238    13.505    13.647    7.363
Total Uses                           80,274   79.400   76.112  59,455  75.670   79.158   76.467    73,558   71.260   71.701
ActMlAted Surplus Cash              16,627   23.048  27.920   31,021   49.544   69,900   79.138    92,643   106.290   113.653
Debt Servlce Cove rae                   2.3      1.9      2.0      1.6      2.6      2.6      3.2       3.4      3.6       5.0



INDONESIJ - INDUSTRtAL ENERCY cOuSIRVATION FgOJUCT
tUSRl - IncrementaL Cost  nd Revenue Stream for
FinancLal Rate of Return Calculations
(in ApriL 1987 US$ Mllilon)
PUSR1 11
1907     19a0      195S     1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1993    1i9e       1997      199l     I m       2000
----     ----      ....     ....   ___.__._.,    ...     ...       ....     ----      ----      ----     ....__
VenAfit                                     -         -        -         -        5.2       5.2      5.1       5.0       5.0      5.0       5.1      5.2       5.2      2.7
Variable Costs                                                 -         -        0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.4       0.6      0.5
Fixed Cnt                                   -        -         -                  0-5       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.2       0.3      0.2
Capitol Costs                               0.4      2.0       2.7       1.6
net Nenefits                               -0.4     -2.0      -2.7      -1.6      4.3       4.3      4.2       4.1       4.1      4.1       4.2      4.Z       4.3      2.1
Ineocmantal 13                             239.21
IIw



IMShhA - INDUSTRIAL Urn! C0SUUATII    1J3CT
PUnI - Ineremental Cost and Renue Strams for
Vinamial Rate of Retumn Calculations
(in April 1937 US$ Million)
PUSIU III
1937     19"       1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      1994    1'5       1996      1997     193       1999     2000
efLtt                                                                             3 -  -  -  3.2  6.8  6.7     6.8 X      .5      6.3       6.7       *.3      6.3      2.5
Varlable Costs                              -         -        -         -       -0.1       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.3
hue4  Costs                                 -        -                   -        0.3       0.3       0.2      0.3       0.3       0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2
Capltal Costs                               0.5      2.2       3.0       1.0
not lenfits                                -0.5     -2.2      -2.0      -1.3      3.0       5.9       5.3      5.7       5.6       5.7      5 .       5.9      5.9       2.9
0t
Znereuntsl 1140.62
II



F.''~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
IMDOhISIA   INDUSTRIAL IMtOY CO4IUVATIOW POECT
PUSUI - Incemsntal Cost and Revemn Streams for
Financial Rate of Return Caloulattoio
(In April 1967 US$ HIllioa)
YUSRI IV
1967      19U       1969      1990    19l        1992     1993      1994      1995      199       1997      1996     1999      2000
....      ----      ...       ...       ...       ...       ....     ....      ....      ----      ....      ....____  ....     ....
14M fit                                                                              3 -  -  -  2.2  6.8  6.7      6.6       6.5       6.6      .JI       6.6       6.6       X.4
Variable Cost                                -                                      -0.4       0.3       0.        0.3       0.3       0.2      0.2       0.3       0.3       0.2
Fiz.d costs                                  -              -         -              0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.2      0.3       0.2       0.3       0.3
Capital Costs                                0.5       2.2       3.0       1.6                                                                                                           1
Net lemfits                                 -0.5      -2.2      -3.0      -1.8       3.3       6.2       6.1       6.0       5.9       6.0      6.1       6.2       6.2       2.9
at
IVram_ntal FDn                              42.22
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



VinanLal Rate of REtum; CalculatimstS
(in ApriL 1967 US$ MLLLIon)
TOTAL PnJEC
1117      1968      1919      1910       1991      1992      1993      1991       1995      1996      1997      lo"       1999      200
UmnAfita                                                                               11.6      16.6      16.5      16.2       16.0      16.2      18.5      16.6      16.6        g.e
Variable Costs                                                                          0.1       1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5        0.6
Fixed costs                                    -         -         -          -0.9                0.9       0.9       0.9        0.9       0.9       0.9       0.9       0.9       0.9
CapuLtaZ Costs                                 1.4       6.4       8.7        3.2
Met lkAefLts                                  -1.4      -6.4      -6.7       -5.2      10.6      16.4      16.1       15.6      15.6      15.8      16.1      16.4      16.4        7.9
lhremental IPR                               40.6'
NPV at 12X OCC                                  US$    37.1  MLILLon
Discounted at 12X
5 ;,' Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
., |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



_     63    -
ANNEX 7-5
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
PUSRI - Assumptions Used in the Economic Analysis
1.        General.  The economic rates of return (ERR) for the three plants
and .he Project as a whole are calculated on an incremental basis in
constant April 1987 prices. The salvage value for the Project at the end
of its economic life is assumed to be zero. Duties and taxes are excluded
from all cost and benefit streams. The assumptions for the increase in
capacity and production are as follows; energy savings by plant are shown
on page 2 of this Annex.
1986-90             1991              1992-99
II     III&TV      II    III&IV       II     III&IV
Capacity ('000 mt)
Without Project
Ammonia           196       297       196      297       196      297
Urea             342        512       342      512       342      512
With Project
Ammonia          205        321       235      356       235      356
Urea             353        553       371      561       371      561
Production ('000 mt)
Without Project
Ammonia          205        321       205      321       205      321
Urea             353        553       353      553       353      553
With Project
Ammonia          205        321       235      3.8       235      356
Urea             353        553       371     561        371      561
2.        Capital Costs.  The economic capital costs of the Project is
calculated from the financial capital cost in December 1986 prices less
duties and taxes, using a conversion factor of 0.64 for the local costs.
3.        Working Capital.  No additional working capital is required for
the Project. The increase in ammonia and urea production will be achieved
with no change in working capital requirements due to lower specific
consumptions.
4.        Economic Benefits.  Economic prices of products are based on the
latest Bank projections for internatlonal prices.  Projections of economic
prices of products are given on page 3 cf this Annex.
5.        Operating Costs.  The economic value of natural gas is assumed to
be equivalent to its fuel oil equivalent of US$2.2/mmBtu in 1990,
US$2.8/mmBtu in 1995 and US$4.0/m=Btu in 2000 based on projected FOB crude
oil prices of US$15.7/bbl in 1990, nnd US$19.5/bbl in 1995 and US$27.9/bbl
in 2000. Gas would, at the margin, substitute for fuel oil in the
industrial sector. The economic costs for utilities, power, and steam are
accounted for in the gas consumption of the plants. Economic prices of
catalysts and chemicals are expressed at their import parity cost.
Additional maintenance and insurance costs are assumed at 4.5% and 0.5% of
investment, respectively. No additional labor would be required for the
Project.



ANNUK 7-5
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
PUSRI - Main Projeact Benefits at Stabilized Productiona
PUSRI II                     PUSRI III                       PUSRI IV                    Total Project
B         A        A-B         B        A        A-B          B        A        A-B          B       A         A-B
output
(tons x 1.000)
Total Ammonia Produced                    204.9   235.2                  320.8   356.4                 321.s4    356.4                847.1   948.0
Ammonia Converted to'Urea                 204.9   215.3                  320.8   325.6                 321.4    325.6                 847.1   866.5
Surplus Ammonia                             -       19.9       19.9        -       30.8      30.8        -        30.8    30.8          -       81.5      81.5
Urea                                      353.3   371.3       18.0       553.0   561.3        8.3      554.0    561.3        7.3   1,460.3 1,493.9        33.6
inputs
Natural Gas (MMBTU x 1,000)
For Ammonia (feed & fuel)               9,620  10,012        392    13,586  13,939          353    13,547   13,682         135    36,753  37,633         880
For Urea (fuel)                         2,614   2,748        134      3,779   3,856          77      3,850    3,901         51    10,243  10,505         262 
Total                                  12,234  12,760        526    17,365  17,795          430    17,397   17,583         186    46,996  48,138       1,142
EnryCnssto  (O4BTU/ton)
Ammonia (feed I fuel)                   46.95   42.57    (4.38)   42.35    39.11           (3.24)  42.15    38.39        (3.76)  43.39   39.70         (3.69)
Urea (fuel)                              7.40    7.40         -       6.87       6.87        -       6.95      6.95        -7.03    7.03                0.02
Urea (feed & fuel)                      34.63   32.09    (2.54)   31.43    29.55           (1.88)  31.40    29.22        (2.18)  32.18   30.06         (2.12)
Enrg ",inis ' 
*;~ 
Ammonla (feed & fuel)                                       9.3                             8.3                           8.9                           8.5
Urea (feed & fuel)                                          7.3                             6.0                           6.9                           6.6
a /  Bo before project; A: after project.



_       65    -
ANNEX 7-5
Page 3 of 3
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Economic Prices for Main Outputs and Inputs
(In April 1987 prices)
Urea (US$/ton)                        1987        1990         1995       2000
FOB Bagged, West Europe                108          201         187        202
Ammoniaa/ (US$/ton)
FOB West Europe                        113          211         196        212
Natural Gas b/
(US$mm Btu)                            2.1         2.2          2.8        4.0
Crude Oil (US$/bbl)                   15.0         15.7        19.5       27.9
-    . (US$/Mt)                    110.0       115.1        142.9     204.5
Fuel Oil  (US$/mt)                    82.5        86.3        107.2      153.4
a/  Ammonia surplus would be exported.  PUSRI is already exporting small
quantities of ammonia to Far Eastern countries. Urea is valued at FOB
prices since Indonesia is now, and expected to remain, in the medium
term, a net exporter of urea.
b/  Gas value estimated at fuel oil equivalent based on projected crude oil
price, and assuming 7.33 bbls to a metric ton and a fuel oil to crude
oil price ratio of 0.75.



INDOISIA - INDUSTRIAL DES! COUIUVAU0UN FflJUCT
PUCE - Inouemmtti Coat  rA Ravsnu  Strams for
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(in April 1987 US$ Millon)
f~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~UR i..,;t 
1967      1968      1969      1990      1991.    1992       1993      1994      1993      1996       1997      1996      1990      2000
Senafita                 -         -         -         -        ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~~7.7  7.6  7.4  7.2  7.2   7.2       7.5       7.6       7.7       4.0
Variable Coats                                -                                        1.6       1.7       1.1       1.9       2.0       2.2       2.2       2.3       2.7       1.5
Vixsd Coats                                   -         -         -                   0.3        0.3       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.2       0.3       0.2       0.5
Capital Coats                                 0.4       1.8       2.5       1.4       -                    --------
m et lesvfita                                     -0.4      -1.6      -2.5      -1.4       5.6       5.6       5.3       5.1       4.9        4.6       4.9       4.8       4.7       2.2
*   Incr.emntal DRR                                02
,, .,, r   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IKDONESIA -INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
FUSE! - Incremental Cost sand Revenue Streams for
Zoonosic Rate of Return CaiculatLona
t*,' P | ' ' . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .....    ....     ....     ....    
(in AprLil 1967 US$ Million)
FUSE! III
1uai      1968      1969      1990       1991      1,92      1993      1994       1693      1996      1997      1916      1999      2000
,;  . . _________________._________..................................................  - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - ....       ....      - -- -              ....      ....      ...._
B enefits                                           --                   -                   4.3       7.9        7.8       7.7       7.6        7.7       7.3       6.0       3.1       4.2
*    Variable Costas                                                                        -0.5       1.3       1.3        1.4       1.4       1.5       1.6        1.7       1.6       1.0I
*    Fxed Costas                                                   -          -              0.3       0.3       0.3        0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3        0.3       0.3       0.3
Capital Coats                                  0.4       2.0       2.7       1.6        -         -         -          -         ------
Net  ensfiLta                                 -0.4      -2.0      -2.7      -1.6        4.5       6.3       6.2       6.0        5.9       5.9       5.9       6.0       6.0        2.9
Inor emes ntal ERR                           48.2n
I



136DOISLA - ZUDUSthAL Z.IMY ONUERYATION PIKOJZC
,, , ._ . ____ ..... __.. __.___ __________................................................__.. _
pUSnt - Inate_antal Cost "a  3eyesv e Streams for
. _______ _._.___.____.______ ...................................................................._._.
c.   eae    late of Oetur  Celeulatie.m
(L April 1937 US$ Milion)
*USRI IV
1967      196U       1959       1990      19o1       1992      1993       1994      1995       1994      1997       196      1999       2000
... ... __ _.____ _ ....... ...-...--..    ....   .....  __.....  .__...     ----      ----  .....          ....   .....         ....
DenefIta                                         -         -          -          -         4.2        7.7       7.4        7.5       7.4        7.5       7.0        7.S        7.9       4.1
Variable Cots                                    -         -          -          -        -1.0        0.6       0.4        0.6       0.7        0.7       0.7        0.3        0.3       0.4
Srxed Costs                                                                      -         0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.4
Capitel Costs                                   0.4        2.0        2.7        1.6       -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Net *<a fLts                                   -0.4       -2.0       -2.7      -1.6        4.6        0.7       6.4        6.5       6.3        6.4       6.5        4.6        S.7       * s
luge1enatal *9R                                50. 1



INDONSIA -INDUITRIA  ZNEnGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
0!                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUSRI - Incremental Cost and Revenue Struams for
EconocaLo Rate of Return CalculatLons
(Ln ApiLL 1987 US$ MLLILLon)
TOTAL PROJECT
191?      1918      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      19        1996      1999      2000
*  Nenefita                     -         -         -          -       ~~~~~     ~~~~~    ~~~~16.2  25.2  22.9  22.6  22.2  22.6     22.9      25.5      25.7      12.2
Variable Costs                                 -                    --0.2                         5.6        5.8       5.9       4.1       4.4       4.7       5.0       5.5       2.9
Flied Coats                                    -         -          -         -         1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0
*   Capital Coste                                  1.2       5.3        7.9       4.6        -         -----                                             -          -         -         -
NoRt lemeflte                                     -1.2      -5.8       -7.9      -4.6      15.0       18.6      18.1      1?.?      17.1      17.1      17.2      17.5       17.4       8.5
Inotmuotal RRR                               49.61
NW  at 123 0CC                        us$    45.8   NiLILon
t ' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
. ':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



PUSRJ  INDUSTRIAL ENERGY COISURVATIOW PnoJ1Wf
EstLmated Foreign Exchange Savings
(in 4thL i9ai UU$ Thousands)
1967  1966     1969      1990      199       1992      1995       1994      1995      1996      1997      1996      1999      2000    Total
ForelAgo Exchange Inflovs
-------------------~~.--------                                         __  __  __  __  __  __  _
Loans                                       1,000    4,900    '8700       3,900        -         -         --                  -16,500
Project Revenues-                                       - -       -                16.160   22,239   22,901   22,566   22,239   22.591   22,946   23,312   23,680   12,151  211.789
Total                                   1,000    4,900    6,700 U,900   16,160   22,239   22,901   22,566   22,229   22,591   22,943   23.312   22,680   12,151  226,289
Poreign Exchange Outflows
_______,....__ _________.
Project  nvestment                          2,550    7,920    7,130    1,900                -         -         -              -         -         -         -                   -      19,500
Debt    rnvice                                -         -         .         -       64,977    4,606    4,223      22,06      3,492    2,121         -                                   24,274
Total                                   2,330    7,920    7,130    1,900    4,977    4,606    4.235    2,663    3,492    3,121                  -                                    " 43,724 
ARaMA9   Wet twLnge                        (1,550)  (3,020)    (430)   2,000   11,165   16,633   16,666   16,705   16,747   19,470   22,946   22,312   22,660   12,151  164,495
__...^...__........
mN 0e Foresgn EXchange Savings streams discounted
at 122 oppartunity cost of capltal (OCC), USS 62,460 Thousand
...... ........... ... ..  _. .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I.



-    71    -
CHART 1
INDONESIA - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECT
KONEBA
Organization Chart
BAKORENa1
PTEa/
Board of
Commissioners
Board of
Management
re*sident-Director
DeputyE
President
Di rector
|Audit         Training     Consultancy      Information
Studies      Unit          Services        Unit
Unit         .             Unit
a/    National Energy Coordinating Board.
b/    Permanent working sub-committee in BAKOREN.



CHARY 2
INNESIA   INDUSTRIAL ENERGY CONSERVATION PRO:ECT
PUSRI Encurn  Efiinc                & Cr~ty_
O,ti i,ati        Not
Iaolmantation Schedule
ACTIVITIES  1986  1987                       1988                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1989                        1990                          1991
1-Sa       10VIOII     I  21 3  4*  5  61 71 S  9 1011112  I1 21 3  A  5  6  71S  9 1UI1112   1  2  3  4  5  6  7  S  9 101It12    1 21 31 41 5  61
*    Preparatory Activities
Process design, ti, tiIUIv
!' ','     Analytical detgn, ti, .I/
Detailed design, 11, HIM/K
Procurewnt, It
Pro-shutdown constr., It
*    FLnal tie-in, It
Procurement. t,
Pre-shutdown constr., IV
Final tie-In, IV
*                                                                                        I-NProcurement, III                     PROJECT
*  Pge-ahutdown constr., III
Fnal tie-Ln, III
*Annual Turnaround
it
t it______________________________l



THAILAND                                                                                           K
-                                                                        -
-      'A i                                                                                               , A r
<C :
ic- 1r
--8;;                           i                  .R r--U  ,                                                                        .   1
~~~CA                                                                                                   i'   RR tlSEt         AN           ,
DX I                              ALYIA,> 4y    rs a-'
-.,~~~~~~ ;at                                                              Pa.u,,,,7'                                           '. --cJ'ML YIA .   -d.
U; 6t                  -        s          p                                 t.                   X-
--R:~ ~ ~ ~~~- ,                                                                                                                    ,S'a.uX <w z  <JA   -S  
-  "                                                                                     N    F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U"Pd
-~~~~~~'  s.                                                                                                        4-      "-1  ,  \-1       4_  F,- '
- st s r t*m
A-VA*             F*rt I~ ~                                 T~II.f
j tLT.gyctcncS 
-~~~~~ D.LAO.6                                                                  /A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADIA
'93 swvwwA ASEANAE (                                                                                     5|I_ \MdOUiA
13*~~~~~~~~IS'
D KCUJANG
b7'1  Kabinem S.is..
-17  Nasa. TingeE PETROICIMIA0REStIK                                                                               JALtI           S1M5.AWA
if SiJmiI blaF.                 F  ALTIM u.11
)9 kiawul T                                                                                                                                         ..g.,
a      &DawsuTagwo*
.     cm-budmdbma .,.rLN
--',. in      Iw
'  3 -   = S      :-M                     . m    n    s    a
:-- - .-



IBRD 193-66R
-' ~~~~~~~~ ~INDONESIA
-~~   PHILIPPINES,>,~~~                                     I NDUSTR IA L EN ERGY
CONSERVATION PROJECT
FERTILIZER PLANTS
* NITROGEN
* PtIOUPHATE
S REGIONAL MARKETING OFFICE OFPFuSfil
@9   PIERrE, IANDolEPOrsIFOR JAVA WEE IBRO 1422
B SLK TERMINALS
U   -.                                 -.-- HU~~~~~~~~~~~~KLK SHIPAENT OF UREA
/                              -e--- SI~~~~~~~~~~~BLK SHIPMAENT OF OTHER FEWIMLIZEPIUACK - HAUU
ROADS
/}          --                                 -.     RALROADS
s-I)                                        -. - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL ICUNDA RIGS
- ~  ~    -~
(                      26      oMna
:~~~~~~~~~~
.    19       K  '     / .,UAAN si21
SYLWS a                           '_,                                              COSERATINPRJC
_s, *                /                                                      FERTILtZERw.-  FLANTFSbk
:- ivr\                                                                  Fk-                             IR.A   N   JA-   r A
: -  ,_   ;CERAM .' :-
.p~~2                                                                                                   rk.0   ~--    -e       :w
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AW
r  )2; 1, -- fs cfRJtFf-<j : '2                                                -                                                   0 
; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 2                                              '-_  -M;,                                                     .O
'---M -                                                                                      1987
'-  Sa.,                        -                                O          10         DO       Jl       400       tq                    l
"EWi         5           :        .  mc                                   U                                ttt    P        Ro lODXO30e0bd
-., '   C,  .   ,f,
.--'    f      - ~-        1ta           .                                                       13
MAY 1987



