Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18016
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
P]ERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
(FONCODES)
ILN. # 3684-PE]
June 15, 1998
Sector Management Unit
Human Developement
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Current Unit =    Nuevo sol (S/.)
US$1.00     =      S/. 2.6
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CONAM             National Council for the Environment
COPOOP            National Office of Popular Cooperation
DC                 Direct Contracting
FONAVI             National Housing Fund
FONCODES           National Fund for Social Compensation and Development
GTZ                German Technical Cooperation and Development Agency
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                Interamerican Development Bank
IIP               Instituto Indigenista Peruano
INADE             National Development Institute
INFES             National Institute for Infrastructure in Education and Health
INRENA            National Institute for Natural Resources
KfW                Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LSMS               Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIS                Management Information Systems
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
PAD                Articulated Development Project
PREDES             Economic and Social Development Project
PRIDER             Integrated Rural Development Project
PRONAA             National Program for Food Assistance
PRONAMACHCS   National Program for the Management and Conservation of Water
and Land Resources
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP               United Nations Developent Programme
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
UTE                Specialized Technical Unit of FONAVI
WID                Women in Development
Vice President        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Unit Director  Isabel Guerrero
Country Sector Leader  Evangeline Javier
Task Manager - Proj.   Juliana Weissman
Task Manager - ICR    Charles Szymanski



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE ....................................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................                                                            ii
PART L PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................................                                      1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ........................................................                                             1
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................                                              2
EX-POST EVALUATION RESULTS .......................................................                                                     3
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ......................................... 5
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ........................................................,                                                       7
BANK PERFORMANCE .......................................................                                                               8
BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................................................                                                           9
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .......................................................                                                         10
CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................................                                                 10
KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS ....................................... 1 1
PART IL STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...........13..................,; 13
Table 1: Summary ofAssessments ............................                                                                        13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................                                                                   14
Table 3: IBRD  Project Timetable ............................                                                                      14
Table 4: Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................................... 14
Table S: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................................................                    15
Table 6: Key Indicatorsfor Project Operation .............................................................                        15
Table 7: Studies Completed ..............................................................                                          16
Table 8A: Global Project Costs   .............................................................                                     16
Table 8B: Global Project Financing .............................................................                                   17
Table 8C: Initial IBRD AUlocations and Actwal Disbursements by Category ..................................... 17
Table 8D: IBRID Funded Subprojects by Category .............................................................                       18
Table 8E: Number of Projects Presented aid Approved According to Poverty Levels ...................... 19
Table 8F, Ratio of Approved Projects in Relation to Presented Projects
According to Poverty Levels .............................................................                            19
Table  8G: Committed BudgetforApproved Projects ..............................................................                      19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................................                                20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .............................................................                                 21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................................ 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual) ......................................................... .... 22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .............................................................                                   23
APPENDIX:
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICIR
MAP OF PERU
.This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not oth'erwise be disclosed without
World Banlc authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SOCIAL COMPENSATION AND DEVELOPEMENT FUND
PROJECT (LOAN 3684 PERU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Development and
Compensation Fund Project (FONCODES), for which Loan 3684-PE in the amount of US$100
million was approved on December 16, 1993, signed on December 22, 1993, and declared effective
on March 8, 1994. The Loan was closed oni June 30, 1997. It was fully disbursed, and the last
disbursement took place on November 24, 1997. Parallel financing for the project was provided by
the Interamnerican Development Bank (US$ 94 million), and foreign donors (US$ 29 million).
The ICR was prepared by Charles Szymanski, Human Development Division of the Latin
American and Caribbean Regional Office with extensive input from Juliana Weissman, Senior
Operations Officer, and assistance from Aracelly Woodall, Task Assistant. The ICR was reviewed
by Alexandre Abrantes (LCC7C) and Evangeline Javier (LCSHD). The Borrower prepared a
separate report which is included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation for this ICR is based, inter alia, on the Bank's final supervision/ICR mission,
which took place in July, 1997; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports; interviews with relevant
Bank staff; the mid-term review; correspondLence between the Bank and the Borrower; four
independent ex-post evaluations (conducted each year of the project); and FONCODES reports.
In addition, preparation of the ICR was discussed with FONCODES during the mission for the
annual implementation review (of FONCODES II) conducted in July, 1997.



ii
SOCIAL COMPENSATION AND DEVELOPEMENT FUND PROJECT
(LOAN 3684-PE)
PERU
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    This was the first IBRD-assisted social investment fund project. It was approved by the
Board on December 16, 1993, signed on I)ecember 22, 1993, and declared effective on March 8,
1994. At the time of appraisal total project costs were estimated at US$495 million equivalent, of
which US$100 million was to be financed by the IBRD loan, with the balance to be financed by the
Government of Peru, beneficiaries and the IDB. This project required 3 years and 7 months for
completion, which is shorter than the average completion period for social investment fund
projects. The final disbursement was effected in November, 1997.
Project Objectives
ii.    The objectives of the project were to assist the Borrower in (a) sustaining its poverty
alleviation efforts, (b) mitigating the social costs of its macroeconomic adjustment, and (c)
strengthening the institutional capabilities of FONCODES. In addition, the project aimed at (i)
generating employment and improving access to social services; (ii) promoting strong and self-
reliant community organizations; (iii) complementing other nation-wide projects in education and
health; and (iv) maximizing support from other potential donors. These objectives were clear,
realistic, and consistent with the Bank's CAS. Above all, at the time of project preparation, these
objectives were crucial to Government of 'Peru (GOP) poverty alleviation efforts and to the re-
establishment of social cohesion and gove:rnment presence in areas of the country which had
suffered the worst affects of years of civil disturbance.
iii.    Project Content: The project was designed to support the overall operation of
FONCODES for the period 1994 to 1997. To achieve the objectives described above, the project
included two core components: (a) Poverly Alleviation--supporting FONCODES' poverty
alleviation efforts through the execution of community-based subprojects (representing 95.5
percent of project costs) and (b) FONCOI)ES Institutional Strengthening--to improve the
institutional capabilities of FONCODES (4.5 percent of project costs). The Poverty Alleviation
component supported the financing and supervision of a range of community-based, labor intensive
subprojects, with a strong focus on educalion, health, sanitation, and nutrition along with other
activities to assist poor rural and peri-urban populations. The Institutional Strengthening
component was designed to support the rehabilitation and refurbishing of FONCODES' facilities,
training of FONCODES staff in project mranagement, organizational analysis for addressing
poverty issues, and technical assistance related to the implementation and supervision of the project
including ex-post evaluations of completed subprojects and support for the preparation and
implementation of subprojects.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    Over the course of the project, FONCODES approved a total of 12,630 subprojects for
US$520 million. Of this total, the Bank loan financed 5,472 subprojects for US$148.9 million--
about 29 percent of FONCODES' subproject expenditures. (Note: Each subproject financed out
of the Bank loan required 30 percent counterpart financing). The loan financed the construction or
rehabilitation of more than 2,000 primary schools, 1300 water and sewerage systems, 340 rural
roads, 300 irrigation systems, and a variety of other efforts. In addition, the loan financed the
purchase of equipment, materials and training for the new MIS, and part of the cost of the expost
evaluations of completed subprojects.
v.     As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the project was
rated satisfactory or highly satisfactory in every major area. The project achieved all of its major
development objectives with few shortcomings. The project played a crucial role in sustaining the
GOP's poverty alleviation efforts by broadening access to social services through the
implementation of subprojects in most of Peru's poorest areas, while strengthening local civil
society and participation. It helped to mitigate the social costs of macroeconomic adjustment by
stimulating private contracting and providing short-term employment to beneficiaries. Subprojects
were well targeted to poor areas, demand-driven, and locally executed. The technical quality of
subproject appraisals was good and largely free from political interference. Significant short term
employment was generated. Finally, the project contributed significantly to strengthening
FONCODES' institutional capabilities, promoting decentralization of its functions, and leveraging
support from other donors. FONCODES' operations were well managed and improved over the
project term. In retrospect, the design of the project appears to have been thoroughly appropriate
for achieving the established objectives.
vi.    By 1996, 70 percent of approved subprojects were for "extremely poor" or "very poor"
communities, versus 26 percent for "poor" communities, 4 percent for "regular" communities, and
less than 1 percent for "acceptable" communities. The latest ex-post evaluation and beneficiary
assessment found that:
*  85 percent of beneficiaries reported that the subproject implemented had improved the standard
of living in their zone.
*  57 percent of beneficiaries reported that FONCODES is the organization which has helped
their community most, (compared with 36 percent reporting it was the district or municipal
government, 15 percent the local mothers club, and 8 percent the church).
*  84 percent of beneficiaries recognized their community's commitment to maintain the works.
* 86 percent of beneficiaries who reported that the subproject in their community was
functioning stated that it was functioning well versus 11 percent who reported it was
functioning poorly.
vii.   When FONCODES was created in 1991, large areas of Peru were still considered insecure
due to the continuation of terrorist activities. As the authorities brought the rural areas under
control, FONCODES was able to expand its programs to the most remote rural areas, thus
increasing its investments in the poorest communities and making an important contribution to
stability and social cohesion in these areas. The experience of being involved in the planning and
execution of subprojects forged new links between these communities and the various levels of
government, and reduced their sense of isolation and marginalization from mainstream society.
The widespread recognition of FONCODES' name and achievements in rural areas has provided a



iv
tangible link between isolated rural communities and the government of Peru--in many areas for the
first time.
viii.   With the exception of some of the water and sanitation projects and irrigation systems,
subprojects in all FONCODES categories showed substantial prospects for sustainability. This
result has been confirmed by the ex-post evaluations and by an ongoing inventory and review of the
operation and maintenance status of all completed subprojects which FONCODES initiated in mid-
1997.
ix.    Bank performance was highly satisfactory at every stage of the project cycle, though it
should be noted that strong performance and collaboration by FONCODES facilitated Bank
involvement. Mostly due to the foresigAht of both Bank and FONCODES staff involved in project
preparation, the actual project timeline adhered very closely to the projected timeline. Bank
supervision resources were supplemented by IDB staff and consultants. Joint supervision missions
began early in 1995 and continued through project completion.
x.    Borrower performance was highly satisfactory for both identification/preparation and
implementation. The Bank official who prepared and appraised the project stated that the fact that
this project was prepared in record time was mostly due to FONCODES' high degree of efficiency
and commitment. FONCODES' ability to perform economic analyses was somewhat weak at
inception, but improved rapidly in the first years of the project. Audits, indicators, and evaluation
reporting were generally complete and punctual. Visiting missions were given full support and
extensive field visits were encouraged and well facilitated. FONCODES staff continually improve
the institution's operations through an ongoing informal process of review and fine-tuning,
implementing recommendations generated by FONCODES personnel in Lima and the 23 regional
offices, by Bank missions, and through lessons learned from ex-post evaluations of completed
subprojects and from other social funds.
xi.    Building on the successes of the first project, the Second Social Development and
Compensation Fund Project (Foncodes II) is currently underway. The total project cost is expected
to be $US 430 million, of which $USl150 million is being financed by the Bank. Many of the
lessons leamed in this project have bee incorporated into the design of the second project. The
preparation of the second project while the first project was still under implementation contributed
to a situation in which FONCODES and the banks were highly motivated to continue to improve
the institution's performance during project implementation and to continue this process of renewal
and change during the second project. The ability to adapt FONCODES' operations on the basis
of experience and the findings of the annual expost evaluations of completed subprojects has
contributed to the high level of credibility enjoyed by FONCODES in poor communities and has
created a dynamic working environment for the two banks and, more importantly, for FONCODES
staff and consultants.
Summary of Key Findings and Lessons Learned
* The ex-post evaluations of large samples of completed subprojects, which were conducted by
independent consultants, have been extremely valuable both for FONCODES and the Bank in
assessing project perfomiance and impact. The value of these evaluations (four in all)
increased when the later iterations were modified to include beneficiary assessments, which
identified areas for improvement, such as the participation of women and community training
in project operations and maintenance to enhance project sustainability.



v
* The support of the President of Peru and the Ministries of the Presidency and Finance
combined with the problem-solving environment fostered by the leadership of FONCODES
have facilitated ongoing adjustments in procedures and programs. They have also enabled
FONCODES to maintain a high level of credibility among its staff in regional offices and in
the poor communities by demonstrating the institution's willingness to listen and adapt.
* The decentralization and delegation of responsibility to the zonal offices, including project
approval and release of funds, brought FONCODES closer to the communities it served and
enabled the local staff to adapt their approach as needed to suit local conditions.
* By raising the ceiling for direct contracting with communities to US$60,000 midway through
the project, a greater level of community participation in projects was achieved and
FONCODES was able to reach more of the remote areas where contractors are scarce and
government presence is low to non-existent. The rapid response made possible by direct
contracting and the greater number and variety of projects which could be contracted to the
community served to build local capacity to plan and implement projects and increase
communities' sense of ownership.
a More emphasis needs to be placed on educating beneficiaries concerning their role in the
project cycle and the use of services offered by the project. Training in the operation and
maintenance of completed projects should become systematic and, perhaps most importantly,
should be included in the costs of the project. This is particularly true in the case of water and
sanitation projects.
T There is a risk that FONCODES may in a sense become a victim of its own success. Based on
its demonstrated ability to finance and supervise tens of thousands of subprojects for poor
communities effectively and efficiently, FONCODES is under pressure to assume
responsibility for a larger share of the GOP's poverty alleviation programs. This temptation
should be resisted--FONCODES should be permitted to continue to focus on its strengths of
financing and supervising small-scale, demand driven, poverty alleviation subprojects
identified and implemented at the local level.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
I LOAN 3684-PE)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    Project Objectives and Description
1.    Project Objectives: The objectives of the Social Development and Compensation Fund
Project were to (a) sustain the GOP's poverty alleviation efforts, (b) mitigate the social costs of
macroeconomic adjustment, and (c) strengthen the institutional capabilities of FONCODES. In
conjunction with these objectives, the project sought to (i) generate employment and improve
access to social services; (ii) promote strong and self-reliant community organizations; (iii)
complement other nation-wide projects in education and health; and (iv) maximize support from
other potential donors. These objectives were clear, realistic, and consistent with the Bank's CAS.
Above all, at the time of project preparation, these objectives were crucial to Government of Peru
(GOP) poverty alleviation efforts and to ithe re-establishment of social cohesion and government
presence in areas of the country which had suffered the worst affects of years of civil disturbance.
2.    Project Components: The project was designed to support the overall operation of
FONCODES for the period 1994 to 1997. To achieve the objectives described above, the project
included two core components~: (a) Povercty Alleviation--supporting FONCODES' poverty
alleviation efforts through the execution of community-based subprojects (representing 95.5
percent of project costs) and (b) FONCODES Institutional Strengthening--to improve the
institutional capabilities of FONCODES (4.5 percent of project costs). The Poverty Alleviation
component supported the financing and supervision of a range of community-based, labor intensive
subprojects, with a strong focus on education, health, sanitation, and nutrition along with other
activities to assist poor rural and peri-urban populations. The subproject menu included four
broad categories of investment: social assistance, social infrastructure, economic infrastructure
and income/employment generation. The: Institutional Strengthening component was designed to
support the rehabilitation and refurbishing of FONCODES' facilities, training of FONCODES
staff in project management, studies on poverty, organizational analysis for addressing poverty
issues, and technical assistance related to, the implementation and supervision of the project
including ex-post evaluations of completed subprojects and support for the preparation and
implementation of subprojects.
3.    Linkage with Sector Strategies: IBRD's overall strategy for Peru supports the GOP
objective of laying the basis for sustained economic growth and improving living conditions for the
majority of the population. The IBRD strategy for assistance in the social sectors is focused on
long-term institutional strengthening, development of appropriate sector policies and strategies, and
concentration of resources on primary health and education. As part of this strategy, IBRD is
currently financing loans for the Basic Health and Nutrition Project (US$34 million), the Primary



2
Education Project (US$146 million), the Sierra Natural Resources Project (US$51 million), and
the Rural Roads Project (US$90 million), as well as a Second FONCODES Project for US$150
million. FONCODES is the institution which spearheads the GOP's poverty alleviation efforts.
Other poverty alleviation programs are executed by a number of GOP agencies including
PRONAA, INFES, INADE, the Vaso de Leche (Glass of Milk) Program, and specific programs
and projects of the Ministries of Health and Education. FONCODES helps to assure effective
translation of GOP social policies into investment and community level actions through its strong
emphasis on community participation and its specific mandate to identify and help satisfy the basic
needs of the poorest segments of the population.
4.    Background: Unlike many social fund projects, FONCODES was not established with
World Bank or other international financing. FONCODES was created in 1991 by the Fujimori
Government to serve as the focal point for Peruvian public sector investments in poverty
alleviation, and as the principal social development component of the government's structural
adjustment program. The economic difficulties, precarious security situation and declining public
investments of the 1980s had left the social and economic infrastructure of the country in an
advanced state of decay. To help address this challenge, FONCODES was designed to finance
social investment projects prepared by local communities in poor areas of the country, to promote
temporary employment, and to assist in emergency situations. Between 1991 and 1993, the only
external support for FONCODES was a 1992 institutional development grant from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB). FONCODES had learned certain lessons prior to the
preparation of this project, including the need for effective targeting, definition of the subproject
menu, establishment of objective criteria for subproject evaluation and approval, and regular
supervision of subproject implementation. The Bank and IDB projects were prepared with a view
to institutionalizing these lessons, increasing the scale of impact, ensuring the establishment of
adequate project administration and financial management procedures, and strengthening project
monitoring and evaluation activities to reinforce continuous quality improvement in FONCODES'
operations.
.I.    Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    Over the course of the project, FONCODES approved a total of 12,630 subprojects for
US$520 million. Of this total, the Bank loan financed 5,472 subprojects for US$148.9 million--
about 29 percent of FONCODES' subproject expenditures. (Note: Each subproject financed out
of the Bank loan required 30 percent counterpart financing). The average cost of subprojects
financed by the Bank loan was about US$27,000. Since its inception, FONCODES has
implemented an average of about 4,000 subprojects per year and generated an average of about
roughly 4 million days of employment each year. About 75% of projects financed from 1991 -
1995 were social infrastructure, the vast majority of which were primary schools, water and
sanitation; 7% were social assistance; 15% were economic infrastructure, including small rural
roads, bridges, electricity, and irrigation systems; and 3% were productive projects. The loan
financed the construction or rehabilitation of more than 2,000 primary schools, 1300 water and
sewerage systems, 340 rural roads, 300 irrigation systems, and a variety of other efforts. In
addition, the loan financed the purchase of equipment, materials and training for the new MIS, and
part of the cost of the expost evaluations of completed subprojects (which were co-financed by the
IDB). Please refer to Table 8D of the Statistical Annexes which indicates the breakdown of
expenditures from the loan by category and subcategory.



3
6.    As indicated by Table 1 in the Statistical Annexes, the overall outcome of the project was
rated satisfactory or highly satisfactory in every major area. The project maintained satisfactory or
highly satisfactory ratings since its approval. Subprojects were well targeted to poor areas,
demand-driven, and locally executed. The ltechnical quality of subproject appraisals was good and
largely free from political interference. Significant short term employment was generated.
FONCODES' operations were well managed and improved over the project term. In retrospect,
the design of the project appears to have been thoroughly appropriate for achieving the established
objectives. Though the SAR criteria for judging achievement of project objectives were not
impact-oriented, this was compensated for by the inclusion of semi-annual expost evaluations of
completed subprojects, (see below). The semi-annual evaluations were expanded to include the
evaluation of subprojects financed by the II)B and became annual rather than semi-annual in order
to allow for greater scope and more time to assess the results, test innovations, and incorporate the
findings into FONCODES ongoing operations.
7.    The 1996 Living Standards Measurement Survey revealed that 40 percent of
improvements in infrastructure and services in poor rural communities during the previous four
years had been financed by FONCODES. 'From 1994 to 1996, people in rural areas gained
significantly greater access to basic services. During this period the percentage of the population
with access to health services increased from 33% to 56%, with access to potable water from
33.3% to 42.1%, with access to sewerage services from 2.8% to 6%, and with access to electricity
from 25.9% to 29.2%. By financing the construction of works in each of these categories,
FONCODES played a major role in these improvements.
8.    FONCODES' ability to reach the poorest communities with its services was strong
initially and improved over the course of the- project. The resource allocation (i.e. targeting)
system used to identify poor communities was refined by increasing the number of socioeconomic
indicators applied and by disaggregating poverty data from the provincial to the district level, (the
smallest political unit in Peru). The ex-ante evaluation of project proposals carried out by the
regional offices includes a socioeconomic assessment and a mandatory field visit to the community.
Between 1991 and 1995, 31 percent of all projects approved were located in "extremely poor" or
"very poor communities". By 1996, 70 percent of approved subprojects were for "extremely poor"
or "very poor" communities, versus 26 percent for "poor" communities, and 4 percent for
"regular" communities, and less than 1 percent for "acceptable" communities. Furthermore, 58
percent of the project proposals submitted by the "extremely poor" in 1996 were approved, versus
51 percent for the "very poor", 49 percent for the "poor", and 41 percent for the "regular".
III.   Ex-post Evaluation Results
9.     Since FONCODES' inception, four external expost evaluations of completed subprojects
have been carried out by independent public research NGOs. Each evaluation included a stratified
random sample of 200 to 350 completed supbrojects. In all, about 850 of more than 9,000
projects financed by the two Banks were included in these evaluations. The most recent
evaluations (1994, 1995, and 1997) were jointly financed by the Bank and the IDB. The
evaluations included interviews with the principal stakeholders of FONCODES subprojects,
including beneficiaries, members of the nucleo ejecutor (a four person project management
committee which is elected at a community assembly to which all potential beneficiaries are
invited), project operators, and officials in FONCODES' regional and central offices. The



4
following excerpts summarize the major finding of the fourth evaluation (1997) which included a
sample of 350 subprojects financed during the 1994-1996 period:
Development Impact:
* 85 percent of beneficiaries reported that the subproject implemented had improved the standard
of living in their zone.
* 57 percent of beneficiaries reported that FONCODES is the organization which has helped
their community most, compared with 36 percent reporting it was the district or municipal
government, 15 percent the local mothers club, and 8 percent the church.
* 48 percent of nucleo ejecutor members interviewed reported that the subproject executed in
their community created more than 20 temporary jobs, 21 percent reported 10 to 20 jobs were
created, and 14 percent between 6 to 10 jobs.
* 66 percent of beneficiaries did not believe that their personal income had risen as a result of the
project. l Of those who believed their incomes had increased, 73 percent reported that they had
spent the increase on food, 19 percent on clothing or shoes, and 15 percent on health expenses.
* 64 percent of the beneficiaries of water and sanitation projects reported that there had been a
noticeable decline in the incidence of diarrhea in their communities.
* 90 percent of the beneficiaries of education projects reported that the quality of education had
improved since the execution of the project.
* With regard to electrification projects, the percentage of beneficiaries without daily electricity
access diminished from 84 to 3 percent.
* With regard to potable water system projects, the percentage of beneficiaries without daily
access diminished from 95 to 7 percent.
+ The majority of beneficiaries of irrigation and agricultural subprojects reported little or no
improvement in productivity as a result of the project.2
Quality and Sustainability of Works:
* 76 percent of beneficiaries reported no problems in the execution of the works versus 13
percent who reported problems. Of the latter group, 28 percent reported that the problem
resulted due to the poor performance of the individuals charged with the execution of the work,
15 percent due to a lack of adequate materials, and 13 percent due to a lack of money for
additional works. Twenty-two percent of those surveyed did not qualify their response.
lIncreasing personal income is not a major objective of most FONCODES projects.
2Ex-post evaluations were typically undertaken less than a year after subproject completion. A
longer term measure of project outcomes would likely be needed to assess changes in agricultural
productivity.



5
*  84 percent of beneficiaries recognized their community's comniutment to maintain the works.
*  86 percent of beneficiaries who reported that the subproject in their community was
functioning stated that it was functioning well versus 11 percent who reported it was
functioning poorly.
*  85 percent of beneficiaries reported that 1he people charged with the operation of the
subproject work (schools, health posts, community centers, etc.) were either adequately or well
qualified.
*  55 percent of those surveyed reported that FONCODES had taught them how to care for the
implemented works versus 20 percent who mentioned that they were not, though 25 percent did
not respond. (This 55 percent is a significant improvement over the 34 percent recorded during
the previous ex-post evaluation.)
Participation:
*  57 percent of beneficiaries affirmed that the idea to implement a subproject came from the
general population or a community group, while 8 percent reported it being an idea of one of
the nucleo ejecutor members, and 21 percent didn't qualify their response.
*  60 percent of the population surveyed were present in the community assembly where the
subproject was decided upon.
*  47 percent of beneficiaries surveyed reported that they had participated in the maintenance of
their community subproject.
IV.   Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to government control.
10.   When FONCODES was created in 1991, large areas of Peru were still considered insecure
due to the continuation of terrorist activities. As the authorities brought the rural areas under
control, FONCODES was able to expand its programs to the most remote rural areas, thus
increasing its investments in the poorest comrnunities and making an important contribution to
stability and social cohesion in these areas. T'he experience of being involved in the planning and
execution of subprojects forged new links between these communities and the various levels of
government, and reduced their sense of isolation and marginalization from mainstream society.
The widespread recognition of FONCODES' name and achievements in rural areas has provided a
tangible link between isolated rural communities and the government of Peru--in many areas for the
first time.
Factors generally subject to government control.
11.   It is notable that availability of GOP counterpart funding was never at issue in this project.
In fact, from FONCODES' inception in 1991 through the completion of this project in June, 1997,
expenditures totaled almost US$ 883 million, of which 71% was financed out of the public



6
treasury and 24% by the World Bank and IDB. The consistent support of the President of Peru,
the Ministry of Finance, most of the line ministries, and other public and private sector
organizations has bolstered the credibility of FONCODES. The President provided unequivocal
support for FONCODES through a Board of Directors headed by the well known and widely
respected Archbishop of Ayacucho and top business leaders. Key positions in FONCODES were
consistently staffed by experienced officials from the public and private sectors who contributed
considerable managerial and technical expertise to the project.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
12.   Institutional: FONCODES staff in headquarters and regional offices worked long hours
and showed a high degree of commitment to institutional goals and objectives. Despite somewhat
rapid turnover in key positions during the project period (including three changes of executive
director), FONCODES was able to maintain a highly qualified staff which allowed it to continually
function efficiently and effectively. FONCODES staff has been managed on a performance basis
with strong performers being promoted through the ranks and those who prove unequal to the task
at hand being moved aside. (All FONCODES staff are hired on a contract basis and can be
terminated quickly if performance is unsatisfactory). Overall, management of FONCODES has
been consistently strong.
13.   FONCODES as an organization has clear objectives which have been supported by a well-
defined project cycle, transparency in project identification, selection and evaluation, specific
guidelines for field staff regarding project preparation and supervision during implementation, and
straightforward financial management, procurement and administrative procedures. The stability
and coherence of operations have contributed a great deal to maintaining equilibrium and
effectiveness within the organization even during periods of relatively high staff turnover.
14.   Targeting: FONCODES targeting capabilities evolved over the course of the project into
some of the strongest of any social investment fund. By 1996, FONCODES had combined
geographic targeting with individual assessments and incentives for self-selection of the poor. The
allocation combines informnation about the number of people living in populated centers which have
between 40 and 300 households with a district-level poverty index from the poverty map used in
previous years. (The district is the smallest political geographic division so targeting is in effect
specific to the local level). Small correlations to the allocations were then made to reflect the
spending capacity of regional offices, flows of funds from directed donations, and the special needs
of border regions. A computerized system helps to prioritize projects according to poverty level,
lack of basic services and the absorptive capacity of communities. Promotion and outreach
activities are directed at areas of extreme poverty where communities have little or no capacity to
propose projects on their own. In most cases, all of this is accompanied by an individual
assessment mechanism such as a mandatory on-site visit to verify informally the poverty level of
the community in question, providing additional information for refined targeting. Finally, self-
targeting by low wages is a mechanism employed to ensure that only the poor have the incentive to
take the temporary employment created by the project.
15.   In 1995, FONCODES identified all of the poor and extremely poor communities which
had never requested a project and initiated a special promotional effort in those communities. It
was apparent that these communities would require special attention and assistance due to their
inherent institutional weakness. FONCODES began to allow some communities to present a
"project profile" for pre-screening rather than a full fledged project proposal, thus reducing



7
preparation costs. Through the Promotion Unit, FONCODES also began helping some
communities in project design and preparation. The result of these efforts can be seen over time in
the increased allocation of FONCODES resources to the poor and extremely poor communities.
(See Tables 8E, 8F, and 8G of the Statistical Annexes)
16.   Training: Training financed by the project was limited to assisting FONCODES
headquarters and regional office staff in the use of the new MIS. There was no formal training
program for staff in project operations other than on-the-job training by colleagues. The need for
community/beneficiary training in project operations and maintenance was not fully recognized in
1993, in part because the majority of subprojects financed in the early years were primary school
or health post rehabilitation and construction which were tumed over to the Ministry of Education
or Health upon completion. The 1995 expost evaluation of completed subprojects revealed that
project sustainability was not automatically Iguaranteed by the line ministries, local government or
the poor communities. FONCODES revised, its project cycle to include the cost of beneficiary
training in operations and maintenance if needed to enhance project sustainability.
17.   Management Information Systems: When the project was prepared in 1993, the IDB had
already contracted a consultant to plan the design of an upgraded and expanded MIS because the
expansion of FONCODES was stretching the capacity of the original system. The World Bank
agreed to co-finance with IDB the equipment for the new MIS based on the IDB consultant
proposal. The Bank did not appraise this cojmponent because the work had already been initiated
by the IDB. The proposal was unsatisfactory and FONCODES worked for almost two years with
joint IDB and IBRD technical and financial support to develop a second, then a third plan which
was deemed acceptable by FONCODES and the banks. FONCODES decided to use UNOPS
support for the acquisition of the new system. This required a loan amendment and interagency
agreement which contributed to the delays. In retrospect, it seems that the banks and FONCODES
underestimated the time required for development of the new MIS design and for transition to the
new system. The outcome, however, was favorable--during the final six months of the project,
FONCODES installed the new system at headquarters and in the 23 regional offices and trained
staff in its use. The new system supports the extensive decentralization of operations which has
occurred since 1993 and permits project and financial data to be entered, transmitted to Lima and
automatically updated on a daily basis.
V.    Project Sustainability
18.   With the exception of certain water amd sanitation projects and irrigation systems,
subprojects in all FONCODES categories showed substantial prospects for sustainability. This
result has been confirmed by the ex-post evaluations and by an ongoing inventory and review of the
operation and maintenance status of all completed subprojects which FONCODES initiated in mid-
1997. The evaluations identified a need for enhanced community training in operations and
maintenance, particularly for water and sanitation projects. The development and execution of
these training activities were incorporated into the design of the second Bank financed project.
However, the design and pilot testing of the training activities were initiated during the final months
of the first project, with technical support provided by the preparation of the second project.
19.   The risk of significant negative environmental impact of FONCODES' activities was
minimal due to the relatively small size of subprojects. However, due to the sheer number of such
projects, the aggregate effect is of concern and the Bank monitored FONCODES' environmental



8
activities periodically during the supervision phase. FONCODES used an operations manual and
technical guidelines acceptable to the Bank for the environmental assessment of subproject
proposals. These guidelines were not applied evenly to all projects however, and staff had received
little or no training in their use. In early 1996, FONCODES hired consultants to update the
guidelines and to train staff in their use. For the second Bank financed project, agreement was
reached by the banks and FONCODES that a full-time environmental specialist would be
contracted to oversee these activities. The guidelines were updated and staff trained with minor
delays.
20.   FONCODES improved its coordination with other public sector agencies substantially
during the life of the project, and the following legal coordination agreements were signed:
Ministry of Education and INFES (1994), Ministry of Health (1993), UTE and FONAVI for
sanitation (1995), Rural Roads Program (1995), the Ministry of Agriculture's PRONAMACHCS
Program (1995), Ministry of the Interior (1995), National Institute of Statistics and Information
(1995), and National Superintendency of Customs (1995). Clarity in the division of
responsibilities between FONCODES and these other institutions contributed a great deal to their
success. For instance, the agreement with the Ministry of Transport specifies that FONCODES
only finances projects with a total cost of less than $US250,000; the agreement with INFES
specifies that it builds secondary schools and FONCODES builds primary and specialty schools in
rural and marginalized urban areas; and the agreement with the Ministry of Energy and Mines
specifies that FONCODES only finance secondary electricity networks when a primary network is
already in place.
21.   As long as FONCODES remams committed to an ongoing process of continuous quality
and organizational improvements, its immediate future as an institution looks promising. Until the
government has overcome the existing weaknesses in its public sector management and expenditure
systems and increased its capacity to provide social services and socioeconomic infrastructure
throughout the country, the Ministry of the Presidency will continue to complement the efforts of
the line ministries and the regional and local governments. The role of FONCODES in the
implementation of demand-driven, small-scale projects is expected to remain unchanged for at least
the next four years as its work is considered an important contribution to the government's effort to
reduce poverty and improve living conditions in poor communities.
VI.   Bank Performance
22.   Bank performance was highly satisfactory at every stage of the project cycle--
identification, preparation, appraisal, and supervision, though it should be noted that strong
performance and collaboration by FONCODES facilitated Bank involvement. Mostly due to the
foresight of both Bank and FONCODES staff involved in project preparation, the actual project
timeline adhered very closely to the projected timeline. Bank supervision resources were
supplemented by IDB staff and consultants. Joint supervision missions began early in 1995 and
continued through project completion.
23.   Some disbursement delays during project implementation arose due to the use of different
disbursement systems for the separate World Bank and IDB projects. In addition, retroactive
financing was agreed at negotiations but could not be used as much as anticipated because the
government could not apply the planned amount of loan proceeds to subprojects which had been



9
approved during the previous calendar year. The second project intends to address this problem by
providing for the establishment of a local bank account to disburse the proceeds of both loans.
24.   The total time allocation on pre-board activities was 60 staff weeks (SW) during the FY
93-94 period, slightly below the Bank-wvide average of 87 for project preparation. The average
time allocated to supervision from both headquarters and the field was 15 SW per year, including
pre-board and completion activities (as compared to the LAC average of 19.5 in social projects).
The cost of supervision was below the Bank-wide average--the average supervision cost for
FONCODES was US$45,000 per year, as compared to the Bank-wide average cost of social
sector supervision of roughly US$65,000 per year. On average, two supervision missions per year
were carried out, in which the task manager was accompanied by various staff and consultants,
including a social assessment specialist, a financial specialist, procurement specialists, engineers
and economists. In addition, IDB provided specialists in WID, education, poverty economics and
infrastructure. Supervision missions examined an array of administrative and technical issues,
though special attention was granted to targeting, subproject impact and sustainability, and
coordination of the project with line ministries and local govermments.
VII.  Borrower Performance
25.   Borrower perforrnance was highly satisfactory for both identification/preparation and
implementation. The Bank official who prepared and appraised the project stated that the fact that
this project was prepared in record time was mostly due to FONCODES' high degree of efficiency
and commitment. FONCODES' ability to perform economic analyses was somewhat weak at
inception, but improved rapidly in the first years of the project. Audits, indicators, and evaluation
reporting were generally complete and punctual. Visiting missions were given full support and
extensive field visits were encouraged and well facilitated.
26.   In 1995, there was a backlog of projects awaiting appraisal which reflected the strong
demand for FONCODES' support which was generated by its demonstrated responsiveness to poor
community needs. This was alleviated by special efforts undertaken in 1996.to clear the project
backlog. For several months, no new project applications were accepted by FONCODES. During
the final year of the project, and in response to a request by the Bank, FONCODES carried out a
procurement audit of 33 projects in which there had been some violation of Bank procurement
guidelines and would therefore not otherwise have been eligible for Bank financing. Results of the
audit showed that those projects suffered either from insufficient appraisal, irregular inspections by
contractors, , or high contract administrative costs which required extensions or defaults.
FONCODES has since undertaken measures to minimize these risks in future subprojects.
27.   At the time of project completion, FONCODES had a core staff of about 300 individuals
which was supplemented by about 250 external project evaluators, supervisors and a small number
of individuals who work on short term contracts as needed. The latter include local project
inspectors whose responsibility it is to ensure that the technical portion of the implementation
phase is properly executed. Finally, there is the temporary formation of a nucleo ejecutor, an
administrative mechanism/feature unique to FONCODES among social funds. While not officially
part of FONCODES' administrative stnicture, the nucleo ejecutor is a group of four unpaid
individuals (typically a president, secretary, comptroller, and treasurer) who are members of the
community, are elected by the community, and are charged with the responsibility of overseeing the



10
financial and operational execution of the local subprojects. The nucleo is granted temporary legal
status (personeriajuridica) which allows it to receive and expend public sector funds.
28.   FONCODES staff continued to improve the institution's operations through an ongoing
informal process of review and fine-tuning, implementing recommendations generated by
FONCODES personnel in Lima and the 23 regional offices, by Bank missions, and through lessons
learned from ex-post evaluations of completed subprojects and from other social funds. Monthly
meetings at headquarters with all zonal office heads and constant field visits by managers from
Lima ensure a continuous exchange of information and ideas.
29.   FONCODES' achieved significant economies' of scale in administrative and supervisory
functions and was able to maintain administrative costs at roughly 8 percent of total costs. This
was partially due to sufficient technical capacity in Peru which allowed FONCODES to contract
out much of the subproject evaluation and supervisory work. (FONCODES uses a register of
engineers to identify qualified consultants throughout the country and maintains blacklists in each
zone of contractors who don't perform up to standard). The decentralization of decision-making
also aided in this respect. By the end of the project, the 23 regional offices had been delegated
much of the authority to evaluate and approve subprojects, disburse funds, and approve small
changes in the size of contracts for subprojects.
VIII. Assessment of Outcome
30.   The outcome of this project was judged to be highly satisfactory. The project achieved all
of the major development objectives with few shortcomings. The project played a crucial role in
sustaining the GOP's poverty alleviation efforts by broadening access to social services through
the implementation of subprojects in most of Peru's poorest areas, while strengthening local civil
society and participation. It helped to mitigate the social costs of macroeconomic adjustment by
stimulating private contracting and providing short-term employment to low income beneficiaries.
The proportion of resources reaching poor communities was high due to the extensive use of direct
contracting and limited use of intermediaries. Finally, the project contributed significantly to
strengthening FONCODES' institutional capabilities, promoting decentralization of its functions,
and leveraging support from other donors.
IX.   Current and Future Operations
31.   Building on the successes of the first project, the Second Social Development and
Compensation Fund Project (Foncodes II) is currently underway. The total project cost is expected
to be $US 430 million, of which $US 150 million is being financed by the Bank. Many of the
lessons learned in this project (see below) have been incorporated into the design of the second
project. The preparation of the second project while the first project was still under
implementation contributed to a situation in which FONCODES and the banks were highly
motivated to continue to improve the institution's performance during project implementation and
to continue this process of renewal and change during the second project. The ability to adapt
FONCODES operations on the basis of experience and the findings of the annual expost
evaluations of completed subprojects has contributed to the high level of credibility enjoyed by
FONCODES in poor communities and has created a dynamic working environment for the two
banks and, more importantly, for FONCODES staff and consultants.



11
X.    Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Operations
32.   Some of the key lessons learned from FONCODES' experience and recommendations for
future operations may be summarized as follows:
*  The ex-post evaluations for large samples of completed subprojects, which were conducted by
independent consultants, have been extremely valuable both for FONCODES and the Bank in
assessing project performance and impact. The value of these evaluations (four in all)
increased when the later iterations were modified to include beneficiary assessments, which
identified areas for improvement, such as the participation of women and community training
in project operations and maintenance to enhance project sustainability.
*  The support of the President of Penr and the Ministries of the Presidency and Finance
combined with the problem-solving environment fostered by the leadership of FONCODES
have facilitated ongoing adjustments in procedures and programs. They have also enabled
FONCODES to maintain a high level of credibility among its staff in regional offices and in
the poor communities by demonstraiting the institution's willingness to listen and adapt.
*  The decentralization and delegation of responsibility to the zonal offices, including project
approval and release of funds, brought FONCODES closer to the communities it served and
enabled the local staff to adapt their approach as needed to suit local conditions.
*  Transition to the new MIS was slower than estimated by the banks and FONCODES, and its
installment in regional and central offices proved difficult. Greater attention to the
development of the MIS during the project preparation phase would likely have facilitated this
process.
-  FONCODES' largely successful efforts to target the poorest demonstrates the importance of
employing (a) an objective allocation system which provides for the selection of projects based
on technical rather than political criteria, (b) promotion activities in the poorest areas, given
that the poorest are often the least awvare of the resources available to them, and (c) simplified
procedural requirements for the poorest communities, i.e. the use of a "project profile" rather
than the more technical and elaborate "technical proposal".
*  By raising the ceiling for direct contracting with communities to US$60,000 midway through
the project, a greater level of community participation in projects was achieved and
FONCODES was able to reach more of the remote areas where contractors are scarce and
government presence is low to non-existent. The rapid response made possible by direct
contracting and the greater number and variety of projects which could be contracted to the
community served to build local capacity to plan and implement projects and increase
communities' sense of ownership.
*  More emphasis needs to be placed on educating beneficiaries concerning their role in the
project cycle and the use of services offered by the project. Training in the operation and
maintenance of completed projects should become systematic and, perhaps most importantly,



12
should be included in the costs of the project. This is particularly true in the case of water and
sanitation projects.
*  To enhance subproject quality and sustainability, greater emphasis should be placed on
training of individuals contracted by FONCODES as supervisors and inspectors.
* To cover recurrent costs and to enhance the operation and sustainability of certain types of
projects, further efforts are needed to improve coordination with line ministries and local
governments, and to improve relevant agency compliance with handover agreements.
*  More attention should be paid to environmental impact concerns during the design phase of
subprojects to ensure that they are environmentally sustainable and that their execution and
operation will not hinder future economic development in the community.
*  Within its current operating framework, FONCODES should incorporate a more structured
gender perspective in its subproject promotion, implementation, and training activities.
There is a risk that FONCODES may in a sense become a victim of its own success. Based on its
demonstrated ability to finance and supervise tens of thousands of subprojects for poor
communities effectively and efficiently, FONCODES is under pressure to assume responsibility for
more and more of the GOP's poverty alleviation programs. This temptation should be resisted--
FONCODES should be permitted to continue to focus on its strength of financing and supervising
small-scale, poverty alleviation subprojects identified and implemented at the local level.



13
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of objectives      Substantial     Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                  O0              0           0              0
Sector policies                  0              0          O               0
Financial objectives             0              0           0              0
Institutional development        0              0          0               0
Physical objectives              0              0           0              OJ
Poverty reduction                0              0           0              O
Gender issues                    0              El          0              0
Other social objectives          el             0          0               0
Environmental objectives         0              0           0              0
Public sector management         0              0          0               0
Private sector development       0              00                         0
B.   Project sustainability               Likely         Unlikely      Uncertain
Sustainability                         0              0             0
Subproject Sustainability              0              0             0
Highly
C.   Bank performance                     satisfactory    Satisfactorv   Deficient
('/)           (/)           (1)
Identification                         0              0             0
Preparation assistance                l0              0             0
Appraisal                              0              0             0
Supervision                            0              0             0
Highly
D.  Borrower performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactorv   Deficient
V()            (/)           (/)
Identification                         0              0             0
Preparation assistance                 0              0             O
Appraisal                              0              O             E
Supervision                            0              0             El
Highly                                  Highly
E.   Assessment of outcome         satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient   unsatisfactory
(              0          0              0



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
t.X.  f.Xl....000,EE-... -                                .       . ..........  ........"f''0"E,"tTS''"''0;'0''''k'ttTt'S.T'XST0"tdX'0S"0l'l'  
1 ,.,, , ,, ~~~~~.  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .. .. . . . ..
Preceding Operations
in lending progam:
Loan 3437-PE             Trade Policy Reform Loan                  1992               Closed
Loan 3452-PE             Structural Adjustment Loan                1992               Closed
Loan 3489-PE             Financial Sector Adjustment               1992               Closed
Loan 354PE              Privatization Technical Assistance         1992               Closed
Following operations
in lending program:
Loan 3701-PE            Basic Health and Nutrition                 1994            In operation
Loan 3826-PE            Primary Education                          1994            In operation
Loan 4068-PE            FONCODES II                                1996            In operation
Loan 4130-PE             Sierra Natural Resources                  1997            In operation
Loan 4250-PE            El Nifto Emergency Loan                    1997            In operation
Table 3: IBRD Project Timetable
1000-00:-0-y ~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ...  ...    . ..tE  ...  .. ..1. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..... .. ........ .. .. ..   .. .. .
.............  . ....          D'ate Plan izd'      DateActua
Identification (Executive Project Summary)             March 1993         February 1993
Preparation                                            April 1993          April 1993
Appraisal                                               July 1993           July 1993
Negotiations                                          October 1993        October 1993
Board Presentation                                   December 1993       December 1993
Signing                                              December 1993       December 1993
Effectiveness                                          March 1994          March 1994
Midterm Assessment                                   November 1995         March 1995
Loan Closing                                         December 1997          June 1997
Final Disbursement                                   September 1997      November 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
11 ~~ .      ..    ..    ..    ..    ..    ..  ..    ...       ..    ...              ..........i -.E
Appraisal estimate                   12,500         45,000        77,500      95,000      100,000
Actual                                9,970         43,230        77,410      99,890       99,964
1 Actual as percent of estimate  1    80%      1    96%           100%         105%        100%
Date of final disbursement: November, 1997



15
Table 5: Key Ladicators for Project Implementation
IN:: CATOR              UNITS  .     1994    1995 999-6:  Jwe-997.   94m--
.. .. .                        : -                          June
Projects Presen ted      Number            10,845    5,271    8,963      4,456   29,535
Amount (U$S)        550     283      642         214     1,689
Projects Evaluated       Number             6,410    4,673    5,938      2,177    19,198
Amount (U$S)        278     214      272         129       893
Projects Financed        Number             4,681    3,211    4,396      2,121    14,409
Amount (U$S)        152      128     167         116       563
Projects Financed        Number            13,965   17,176  21,572      23,693      n.a.
(Accumulated since 1991)   Amount (U$S)      476      604      771         887
Projects in Execution    Number             5,813    4,762    5,920      3,724      n.a.
Amount (U$S)        241     251      278         220
Proyectos paralizados                       2,001     425       29          36      n.a.
Projects concluded2      Nunber             5,035    4,386    3,854      4,226    17,501
____________   Amount (US$)  145      129      147         114      536
Projects liquidated 4'   Number             3,339    5,161    3,380      5,455    17,335
Amount (US$)         81     140      157         157       535
Disbursements**          Amount (U$S)         153     178      155          64       550
1/ Project in execution during the year
21 Includes special projects
3/ Depending on year of completion
4/ Includes pending disbursements
5/ 1997 includes 1779 approved projects for US$43 million and disbursements of US$20 thousand from
FONCODES II
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
INDIC      :T   . 0BJECT.IE         UNTS                 1994    -95-    1996        197
Proportion of      Evaluation    Percentage            14.3       2.5        0.13       0.15
cancelled          quality
projects/approved
Time between       Efficiency    Calendar Days            n.a        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
project presentation
and approval
Time between       Effieciency    Caleindar Days         n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
project approval
and first
disbursement                      _
Human Resources:   Efficiency
Evaluators                       External Personnel       269     259        123        159
Supervisors                      External Personnel       358     508        487        520



16
Table 7: Studies Completed
January 1994 - June 1997
.  ..  ..  .  ..   .-..  ..         ......  .  . ...  ..   ..   .. ....   .   .. .
STUDY  PURPOSE               STATUS                  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ... UTCOME......
Ex-post Evaluations      To ascertain the results of              Periodic examinahion of theI
(Consecutive Studies)    projects financed by                     FONCODES methodological focus on
_______________FONCODES, on the basis                       targeting, prioritizathon, evaluation l
First Evaluation (1994)  of representative samples.  Completed    procedures, monitoring, and controls.l
___________________                              ~~Also, confirmation of thel
,   ,    l0
Second Evaluation (1994)                             Completed    anticipated socioeconomic profile of l
_____________________                            ~~~~~~~~extreme poverty, the high correlation l
Third Evaluation (1995)                              Completed    betwveen lines of credit and the needsl
____________________                             ~~~~~~~most in demand; the high levels of l
Fourth Evaluation (1997)                             Completed    participation in the project; and the
Alegitimacy of the latter.
SOURCE: Planning Office
Table 8A: Global Project Costs
SS milhioetremepovery th *lig orrlto
Item                   Local    Foreign               Local      Foreign      r
l                             ~~~~~~~~~costs  costs  Total    costs      Costs      Totall
F1. Community Based Projects                         CopeeI the project andt__
Social Assistance                      60          11       71        106                   106
I Social InvestmTenet               338.5         59      397.5       424 ProjetCs424s
I Subtotal                               399         70       469       530                    530I
|2. S1F Institutional
Development__ _ _                           __ _ _ _    __ _ _    __ _ _ __ _ _ _
Works and rehabilitation               1.5         0         2        0.5 ____               0.5
Equipment,                              2          4         6        0.7        .08         1.5
l vehicles,l
maintenance____                                                       __ ___
l Technical                                7          3        10        3.3                   3.3l
Assistance                                                       ______     ____ __ _
Subtotal                               18          9        27         47         0.8        47
TOTALS                                    416         79       495        577         0.8       577



17
Table 8B: Global Project Financing
Apprasal estimate                         Actual
l                                    (WS$on  mfl W oi g
Local     Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Item              costs       costs       Total     costs       Costs          Total
Government of Peru             200           0         200      355             0             355
Beneficiaries*                  42                      42                      0
I13RD                           80          20         100      100             0             100
IDB                             80          20         100       93            0.6             94
Other Donors                    14          39          53       29            0.2             29
TOTAL                          416          79         495      577            0.8            577
*Beneficiary contribution was not registered in the system for this project before 1997. This will show in the
second progress report of FONCODES II.
Table 8C: Initial IBRD Allocations and Actual Disbursements by Category
Category Description         Amount of the Loan Alocated          Disbursements in SUS
.eLxpressed in DoUat Equivatenf-
Part A of the project- Subprojects
(a) Works acquired by direct                 24,000,000                     62,617,434.02
contracting
(b) Works other than under (a) above         45,500,000                     26,570,723.04
(c) Goods acquired by direct                   5,000,000                       427,866.43
contracting
(d) Goods other than under (c) above          14,000,000                     2,840,788.42
(e) Technical assistance                      7,000,000                      3,077,352.76
Part B of the Project- Institutional Strengthening
(a) Works                                       750,000                        149,164.07
(b) Goods                                       750,000                        982,424.93
(c) Technical assistance                       3,000,000                     3,333,701.40
SPECIAL ACCOUNT                                       0                        -35,563.67
Total                                        100,000,000                    99,963,871.40



18
Table SD: IBRI) Funded Subprojects by Category*
,                  FNANCING
AREAS / SECTORS /                                    No. of      Amount
LINES OF INVESTMENT                                Projects    Approved  IBRD               Local
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE                                         278          7.1        4.8           2.2
NUTRITION                                                   1          0.0        0.0           0.0
Pre-School and day care centers                             1          0.0        0.0           0.0
HEALTH                                                    158          4.5        3.1           1.4
Packages of medicine                                       76          0.6        0.4           0.2
Health Prevention Campaigns                                31          1.6        1.1           0.5
Family Planning                                             6          0.2        0.1           0.0
Integral Health Care                                       45          2.1        1.5           0.6
EDUCATION                                                 119          2.6        1.7           0.8
Litteracy                                                 104          2.3        1.5           0.7
Training                                                   15          0.3        0.2           0.1
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                   3.608         88.2       57.1          31.1
NUTRITION                                                  20          0.7        0.5           0.2
Soup kitchen construction and rehabilitation               20          0.7        0.5           0.2
HEALTH                                                    143          3.8        2.3           1.4
Construction and rehabilitation of health posts           129          3.3        2.1           1.3
Construction and rehabilitation of health centers          14          0.4        0.3           0.1
EDUCATION                                               2,060         49.2       33.7          15.5
Classroom construction and rehabilitation                1,678        37.8       25.7          12.1
Construction and rehabilitation of sports centers          31          0.5        0.3           0.2
Construction and rehabilitation of community centers      351         10.9        7.6           3.2
Sanitation                                              1,385         34.6       20.6          14.0
Water supply and sewage                                  1,115        26.2       19.9           6.3
Sanitation                                                270          8.4        0.6           7.8
CAPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                  1.296         48.3       30.6          17.6
AGRICULTURE                                               497         18.2       10.9           7.3
Forestation and reforestation                              96          2.7        1.8           0.9
Small irrigation systems                                  317         14.0        8.0           5.9
Land rehabilitation                                        26          0.7        0.5           0.3
Economic infrastructure                                    15          0.6        0.4           0.2
Construction and improvement of wells                      43          0.2        0.2           0.1
ENERGY                                                    460         15.2       10.0           5.2
Secondary electric networks                               455         15.1        9.9           5.2
Small electrification                                       5          0.2        0.1           0.0
TRANSPORTATION                                            339         14.8        9.7           5.1
Roads                                                     339         14.8        9.7           5.1
PRODUCTIVE DEVELOPMENT                                    290          5.3        3.0           2.3
AGRICULTURE                                               229          4.8        2.7           2.1
Productive subprojects                                    229          4.8        2.7           2.1
MULTISECTORAL                                              61          0.5        0.3           0.2
Microenterprises                                            2          0.1        0.0           0.1
Small-Scale processing activities/transformation           59          0.4        0.3           0.1
TOTAL                               5,472       148.9       95.6          53.3
Source: Operations Division - Foncodes



19
TARGETTING TABLES
(Global Program)
Table 8E: Number of Projects Presented and Approved According to Poverty Levels
Poverty Level                1994                     1995:: 1996
. ________ __ -       Presented  - Approved    Presented. Approyed        ented     Approved
Extreme Poverty        1,312        362          718         331         1,728        1,007
Very Poor              4,576        1,825       2,208        1,187       4,128        2,140
Poor                   3,485        1,615       1,697        1,134       2,375        1,170
Regular                1,489        865          599         520          446          183
Acceptable              50           29          19           22           3            3
Multiregional            19          9           11           7            7           8
TOTAL                 10,931       4,705        5,252       3,201        8,687        4,511
Table 8F: Ratio of Approved Projects in Relation to Presented Projects According to Poverty Levels
.___    ._ _         1994'               199-m9- ::1995    1996
Extreme Poverty                      27                  46                58
Very Poor                            39                  54                51
Poor                                 46                  67                49
Regular                              58                  87                41
Acceptable                           58                 100                100
Multiregional                        47                  64                100
Table 8G: Coiniimitted Budget for Approved Projects
(In Millions of New Soles)
_______1_ 1994              1995              1996
Extreme Poverty                     18,4                21,2               55,3
Very Poor                           114,5               79,9              132,7
Poor                                104,9               90,9               86,4
Regular                             63,8                43,4               11,4
Acceptable                          2,7                  2,4               0,3
Multiregional                       62,5                72,9              104,4
TOTAL                              366,8               310,7              390,4



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No co-t beneitM analysis was' included in this project 



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Pern: Social Investment Fund Project
Loan 3684-PE
2.04(c)       5          C                                  Prepare and submit      No comments.
progress report.
2.05(a)       5          C        06/30/95                  Hold Mid-Term Review.  No comments.
2.5(c)        5          C        09/30/95                  Take action on          No comments.
recommendation of Mid-
Term Review.
2.06(b)       5          C                                  Refrain form providing    No comments.
loan guarantees.
2.06(c)       2          C                                  Commitmnents for        No comments.
financing loans for
Small Enterprise
Subprojects shall at all
times be 10% or less of
the aggregate amount of
funds committed by
FONCODES.
2.07          13         C        06/30/94                  Retain independent entiy  No comments.
for carrying out impact
evaluations of
Subprojects which have
been completed.
3.01(b)       5          C                                  Maintain an executive    No comments.
director, general
manager and line
managers with
experience and
qualifications acceptable
to the Bank.
3.01(c)       5          C                                  Maintain salaries of    No comments.
FONCODES mangers
and professional staff at
competitive market
levels.
4.01(b)       2          C      06/30/95                    Independent audit of    No comments.
records, accounts and
financial statements.
4.02          2          C                                  Independent audit of    No comments.
sample of Subprojects.



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Tall:Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW,cul
____________93   94   95    96   97   98   Total
Preparation     26.5                                26.5
Appraisal             24.5                          24.5
Negotiations     =     8.7    =    =     =     =     8.7
Supervision                 40.5  10.8  2.7         54.0
Completion       _-                           3.8   3.8
TOTAL           26.5  24.5  40.5  19.8  2.7   =     117.5



23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number:                                  <-PefrmanceRat::g-:.>
Monthl       of.. . ays In    Specializd Staff-   Implementation       ve}opment .
Stageof Project Ccle      Year      Perons.  Field k...   Sills Ueppesneted      Status:..   .   Objectiv        p ofProbls
Through Appraisal          02/1993       3         7     Public Health Spec.
Identification/Preparation                            PHN Specialist
Consultant
Consultant
Pre-Appraisal              Mar-i 993
Appraisal through Board    Jul.-1993     6         14    Public Health Spec.
Approval                  Nov.-1993                      Tawyer
Project Analyst
Civil Engineer
Financial Analyst
Economist
Negotiations               Oct.-1993
Board Approval through    Nov.-1993      4               Health Spec.
Effectiveness              Mar-1994                      Disb. analyst
Civil Engineer.
Economist
Supervision 1      .        . Jan.-94    4         4     Sr. PHN Spec.                1               1
Civil Engineer
Disbursernent Analyst
Economist
Supervision 2              May-1994      4         9     Public Health Spec.          1               1
Civil Engineer
Educ. Specialist
PHN Specialist
(Continued on next page)



24
(Table 13 Cont.)
.. . . ....                              '                                  : g.gg..g  ....... -            .     -.  .00''''':--........''"'E
......     M  outbl                Doy An       SpcaizdSaf.:              leettin Dveomn
S a.                                                                                                                               :7 
Supervision 3                 Dec.-1994        4          11     Sr. PHN Specialist               I                HS
Sr. Advisor, PHN
Nutritionist
Procurement Spec.
Consultant
Supervision 4                  03/1995         5                 Sr. Implementation                                           No 590 was issued
(Mid-term review)                                                 Advisor, PHN
Sr. PHN Specialist
Sociologist
Institutional Dev. Spec.
Financial Analyst
Supervision 5                   Nov-95         2          11     Sr. PHN Specialist               1                HS
(Mid-term review, Cont.)                                         Economist
Supervision 6                  Aug.-96         3          4      Sr. PHN specialist               I                HS
Consultant
Oper. Specialist                .
Supervision 7                  April-97        5          11     Sr. PHN Specialist                                           A 590 was only issued for
Operations Specialist                                       the second project.
Social Scientist                                            Closing of first project has
Financial                                                   been discussed and
Economist                                                   reflected in an aide
memoire.
.~~                                                 



APPENDIX



PRESIDENCIA DE LA REPUBLICA
FONCODES
F(lIDO NACIONAL DI COUPENkCION Y DELANROLLO DOCIAL
INFORNIE DE CIERRE
CONVENIO DE PRESTAMO
No 3684 - PE - BIRF
.MARZO 1998



FONCODES
IIVDICE
INFORM4E DE CIERRE
CONVENIO DE PRESTMO 3684-PE BIRF
1. Marco General de Acci6n del FONCODES ..........................................................                              I
1.1 Entorno Econ6mico y Social ..........................................................I
1.2 La Situaci6n Actual de la Pobreza en el Penr   ..........................................................I
1.3 Programas Gubernamentales de Lucha Contra la Pobreza .....................................3
1.4 Creaci6n del FONCODES  ...........................................................3
1.5 Mecanismos, Recursos, Voluimenes de Operaci6n y Logros del FONCODES ........4
2. Convenio de Prestamo No 3684-PE-BIRF ..........................................................7
2.1 Objetivos  ..........................................................7
2.2 Descripci6n ..........................................................7
2.3 Logrosy Resultados Alcanzaos .....................                              .....................................8
2.3.1 Ejecuci6n Financiera del Convenio de Prestamo ......................... .................8
2.3.2 Metas Logradas en la Aprobaci6n y Financiamiento de Proyectos ..............8
2.3.3 Gastos de Fortalecimiento Insfitucional ........................................................9
3. Misiones de Evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial al FONCODES . ..................................... 0
4. Riesgos del Programa .........................................................                                              11
4.1 Sostenibilidad de los proyectosfinanciados por FONCODES .............................. 11
4.2 Continuidadntiucional .........................................................                                       11
5. Impacto del Convenio de Prestamo .........................................................                                 12
6. Conclusiones .........................................................                                                     12



FONCODES
INFORMVE DE CIERRE
CONVENIO DE PRESTAMO 3684-PE BIRF
L    AMARCO GEAERAL DE ACCION DEL FONCODES
1.1.  Entorno Economico y Sociarl
Durante los uiltimos seis anios en el Peru  se han implementado un conjunto cde
reformas estructurales orientadas a modemizar el marco jurldico legal, la
econom iay tener relacionesfavorables en el entorno financiero internacional lo
cual hapermitido lograr efectos en la estabilidadsocialy econ6mica delpais.
Las reformas economicas y sociales vienen afianzando la transformacion de la
economia peruana en una economia competitiva, buscando la mayor expansi6n,
articulaci6n yfuncionamiento libre de mercados, acorde a lo cual se ileva a cabo
un proceso de modenizacidn del Estado concentrando su acci6n principaimente
en aquellos sectores que suministran los servicios sociales.
1.2.  La Situacion Actual de la Pobreza en el Peru
En este marco, la recuperaci6n econ6mica y los programas sociales ejecutados
por el gobiemo en el Programa de Lucha Contra la Pobreza entre 1991 y 1996,
han contribuido a mejorar los niveles de vida de la poblaci6n, segun se puede
observar en los resultados dle la Encuesta Nacional de Niveles de Vida de 1994
(EVIV - 94), realizada por la empresa Cuanto S.A, que indica que la pobreza
total habia disminuido de 55.4% en 1991 a 49,6% en 1994. Igualmente la
pobreza extrema observ6 una disminuci6n de 24.2% en 1991 a 20.2% en 1994.
Asimismo, segu6n la Encuesta Nacional de Hogares - ENAHO del INEI, aplicada
durante el cuarto trimestre ade 1995 a una muestra de 19,785 hogares, se observa
que la poblaci6n pobre se redujo a 45.3% y la poblaci6n en extrema pobreza se
rediufo a 19.3% (aproximadcmente 4 millones 500 milpersonas).
1



FONCDES
CUADRO NO 1
Poblaci6n Pobre y No pobre del PenS
segain Metodo de la Unea de Pobreza: 91- 94 - 95
NIVELES DE VWDA          1991(1)      1994(2)        99(
TOTAL POBLACION                100,0%        100,0%       100,0i.
1. POBLACION NO POBRE          44,7%         50,4%         54,7%
2. POBLACION POBRE             55,3%         49,6%         45,3%
* PobresNoExremos              31,1%         29,4%         26,0%
* Pobres Extremos              24,2%         20,2%         19,3%
Poblaci6n defPern            21,966,403,    23,130,323   23,531,701
(1) EIVVIV 199 t-CUANTO S. A., No induye costa nrraly la sehva. Muestra de Z252 hogares.
(2) EVIV 1994-CUANTO S .A.. Muestra de 3,544 hogares.
(3) ENAHO INHEIIV Trnestre 1995. Muestra de 19,785 hogares.
Por otro lado, tomando en cuenta el metodo de las Necesidades Bdsicas
Insatisfechas (NBI), se observa que, segun el Censo de 1993, el 53.9% de hogares
del Pern, tenian cuando menos una NBI, es decir estaban en situaci6n de pobreza,
este coeficiente de acuerdo a la ENAHO - 95, se ha reducido al 44a. Del mismo
modo, el coeficiente de Hogares Pobres Extremos, es decir aquellos que tienen
dos o mas NBI, ha bajado de 23.3% en 1993 a 14.4% en 1995.
Entre 1994 y 1996, segun la Encuesta Nacional sobre Medici6n de Niveles de
Vida - ENNIV 96, elporcentaje de enfermos que realizan una consulta de salud se
ha elevado de 46% a 68%o. Asimismo, se han incrementado los hogares con agua
potable de 73% a 77%, el acceso a servicios de desague de 53% a 59% y el
acceso a la energia electrica de 74% a 76%.
Los efectos alcanzados en el campo rural -ambito de acci6n de FONCODES-,
se&dlan que un gran porcentaje de la poblaci6n en pobreza, ha logrado mejorar
sus niveles de vida alcanzando un mayor acceso a los servicios sociales basicos.
En el area rural se registra un mayor acceso a los servicios bdsicos, en el mismo
periodo, el acceso a los servicios de salud se incremento de 33% a 56%o, la
disponibilidad de servicios de agua potable de 33.3% a 42.1%o, los servicios de
desague de 2.8% a 6%y el acceso a energia elkctrica de 25.8% a 29.2%.
2



FONCODESF
1.3   Los Programas Gubernamentales de Lucha contra la Pobreza
La situaci6n de emergencia social al inicio de los noventa requiri6 una respuesta
rapida de pane del Gobiemo. Asi, inicialmente y en tanto se consolidaba una
propuesta estrategica, se puso en marcha un programa  de asistencia social
mediante las actividades lideradas por el PRONAA, Ministerio de Educaci6n y
Ministerio de Salud  FONCODES, se crea como un instrumento para
complementar las acciones afe emergencia y de superaci6n de la pobreza. Se
suman a el, el INFES, INADE, elprograma del Vaso de Leche admninistrado por ed
Ministerio de Economia, entre otros.
Todo ello, bajo el contexto de una estrategia de lucha contra la pobreza que toma'
como ejes centrales a la estabilizaci6n econ6mica, el aumento y mejoramiento de
la calidad del gasto social basicoy la modemizaci6n econ6micay social.
Durante los uiltimos tres anos, el aumento del gasto social ha sido significativo,
particularmente en los sectoares justicia y social, la cual ha sido realizada
principalmente por el FONCODES, INFESy PRONAA.
El monto comprometido con las principales dependencias vinculadas al sector
social se han incrementado sostenidamente, alcanzando actualmente una cifra al
equivalente a 40.9 % del presupuesto publico de 1995, comparada con el 20.9%
de 1990. Asimismo, el gasto social como proporci6n del PBI se ha incrementado
de 3.2% en 1990 a 7.5% en 1995. Para 1997 el gasto social se estima en SI
10,950 millones de soles, que representa cerca al 44.2% del Presupuesto del
Sector Pzublico, distribuido principalmente en el Ministerno de la Presidencia,
Ministerio de Salud, Ministerio de Educaci6n, Ministerio de Economia (Vaso de
leche), Ministerio de Agricultura (PRONAA-1CHCS) y Ministerio de Transportes
(Caminos Rurales).
1.4   Creacidn del FONCODES
El Gobierno cre6 por Decreto Legislativo N 657 del 15 de agosto de 1991, el
Fondo Nacional de Compensaci6n y Desarrollo Social (FONCODES), como un
organismo descentralizado con autonomia financiera que depende directamente
de la Presidencia de la Repiblhica.
La mision institucional de FONCODES, es mejorar las condiciones y calid de
vida de los maspobres, generamdo empleo, atendiendo las necesidades basicas de
la poblaci6n en nutrici6n, salud, educaci6n, y saneamiento, actuando comoa
instrumento de pacificaci6nypromoviendo la participaci6n de la poblacion pobre
en gesti6n de su propio desarr,sllo.
3



FONCODES
El Fondo fundamentalmente transfiere recursos para inversion local a traves de
pequenosproyectos de apoyo a los servicios basicos sociales asi como de apoyo a
la produccion y generacion de ingresos. Estos proyectos responden a la demanda
que las mismas comunidades identifican en la buisqueda de un beneficio social,
econ6mico oproductivo.
1.5   Mecanismos, Recursos, Voliumenes de Operaci6n y Logros del FONCODES
FONC.ODES viene operando bajo el concepto de "Demand Driven " 6 "Atenci6n
por Demanda", y transfiere en forma directa, desburocratizada, recursos para
inversion a la poblaci6n organizada en un " Nicleo Ejecutor", el cual recibe el
financiamiento del Fondo y ejecuta el proyecto aprobado. Estos proyectos
responden a la demanda que las mismas comunidades identifican siendo este su
mayor efecto descentralizador, propiciando ademds la amplia participaci6n de la
poblaci6n beneficiaria en el uso y mantenimiento del proyecto. Este sistema de
gesfi6n yfinanciamiento ademas de la amplia participaci6n que genera, permite
masificar elprograma definanciamiento del FONCODES.
Buscando que la labor de FONCODES sea complementaria a las sectoriales y
evitar duplicar esfuerzos e inversi6n, FONCODES ha suscrito convenios y
establecido mecanismos de coordinacion con las instituciones y ministerios de
linea, especialmente en los sectores de educacion, salud, agricultura y
transportes.
La eficacia de la labor desplegada por el Fondo desde 1991 donde su
presupuesto estuvofinanciado integramente con recursos del Tesoro Putblico y los
resultados obtenidos, demostraron en su momento que en la Institucion se realiza
un trabajo 6ptimo en beneficio de la poblaci6n mas necesitada. Es asi que a
partir de 1994 el Fondo conto con un aporte del Banco Mundial y el BID,
mediante dos prestamos de US$ 100 millones cada uno, los cuales han sido
ejecutados en un periodo de tres anos.
En 1994 se inicia el proceso de descentralizaci6n de las operaciones del
FONCODES, en ese anio se aprob6 la facultad de aprobaci6n de proyectos en
Comites Zonales de Aprobaci6n de Proyectos (CZAP) en 7 Oficinas Zonales.
Actualmente, de las 23 Oficinas Zonales del Fondo, 14 Oficinas (666%) cuentan
con CZAP, habiendo aprobado durante 1997 el 48% de los proyectos del Fondo.
Con los recursos del Banco Mundial y el BID, FONCODES ha equipado y
renovado sus equipos de computo y software modernos en la Sede Central y las
Oficinas Zonales lo cual ha permitido mejorar los sistemas de informacion y
operaci6n del Fondo.
4



FONCODES
Nuevamente los resultados obtenidos por el Fondo a 1996, dado el adecuado
manejo de los recursos, ha dado paso a un segundo prestamo de ambos Bancos
por un total de Us$ 300 millones con un aporte local de US$ 130 millones, pram
ser ejecutados hasta 1999. En todo este proceso de obtencion de recursos
financieros externos, las fuenites Cooperantes han respondido de manera
importante.
Cuaa'ro NO2
FONCODES: Ejecucion Presupuestal : 1991 - Junio 1997 (*)
(En Milks de USS)
Tesoro PaThlico  Endeudam                      Ingresos
Afio                        Externo      Donaciones      Propios          TOTAL
1991              14.514              0             0             0             14.514
1992              95.584              0           705            63            96.352
1993             166.681              0         1.545           275            168.501
1994             103.038         55.380         4.392         1.884            164.694
1995             102.254         81.914         6.169         1.926            192.264
1996              99.062         54.559        13.705         2.747            170.073
Jun-97 (**)         54.787          15.875         4.559         1.221            76.442
Total            635.921        207728         31.075          &117            882.841
(*) Incluye Proyectos Especiales
(*) Incuye la ejecucid6n del "Programa de Apoyo al FONCODES II por USS 20.0 Millones.
Fuente: Division de Operaciones - FONCODES
Como se aprecia en el cuadro precedente, desde agosto de 1991 hasta Junto de
1997, el gasto efectuado por el Fondo asciende a US$ 882,8 millones, de los
cuales el 71% fueron financiados por Tesoro Puiblico, mientras los recursos
provenientes del Endeudamiento Extemo del Banco Mundialy del BID representa
un 24%. El 5% restante se expi'ica por ingresos propios y los aportes que se ha
recibido en calidad de donaci6n por parte de paises e instituciones amigas como
el Gobierno Alemcin (KfW),el Gobierno del Jap6n, la Uni6n Europea, Canada y
el Fondo Contravalor Penr - Suiza, entre otros.
5



FONCODES
Grifico NO I
FONCODES: Estructura del Financiamiento 91- Junio 97
Ingresos Propios
Donaciones                                          rsr ~Ic
4%                                               Tesoro Nbfioo
71%
Endeudam.Extemo
24%
;n ermminos de proyectos FONCODES ha asumido desde 1991 a Junio de 1997
recursos para elfinanciamiento de 23,693 proyectos por un monto equivalente
aproximadanente a US$ 887 millones.
En relaci6n a la poblaci6n, como se aprecia en el Gnrfico siguiente, la inversi6n
percapita realiizada por FONCODES durante el perwido 1991- Junio 1997
expresa una mayor atenci6n en las zonas de mayores carencias. Asi, para el nivel
de pobreza extrema, la inversion por persona ascendio a US$ 64,9, mientras que
la realizada para los nrveles may pobre y pobre fue US$ 53,1 y US$ 45,5
respectivamente. Para el nivel regular la inversion per caipita es de US$ 12,8
mientras que en el nivel aceptable es de US$ 2.5.
Graitco Wf 2
FONCODES: Gasto Social per Cupita, 1991 - Junlo 1997
30,0
60,0
20,0.-
Pobre Muy Pobre Pobre  Regular Aceptable
Extremo       Extremo
Niveles de Vida
Nota: No includProyetosEspeciales
Fuente: Oficina deSistemas -FONCODES
6



FONCODES
2.    CON VENIO DE PRESTAMO N3684-PE-BIRF
2.1   OBJETIVOS
Apoyar los esfuerzos del GobJiemo Peruano, a traves del FONCODES, para
mitigar la pobreza y los costos sociales del ajuste macroecon6mico, a traves del
financiamiento de una serie de proyectos de educacion, saluat nutricion,
saneamiento e infraestructura economica, asi como fortalecer la capacidad
institucional del FONCODES.
2.2   DESCRIPCION
Los Fondos del Prestamo Wel BIRF, equivalentes a US$ 100 millones,
conjuntamente con otros fondfos de tesoro puiblco, donantes y organismos
multilateralespermiten al FONCODES elfinanciamiento de proyectos basados en
la comunidady brindar apoyo plara su desarrollo institucional.
El Prestamo Ne 3684-PE-BIRF financia los siguientes componentes: Alivwo a ia
Pobreza (mediante elfinanciamiento de pequenos proyectos) hasta por un monto
de US$ 95.5 millonesy el Fortalecimiento Institucionalpor US$ 4.5 millones.
El Componente Alivio a la Pobreza financia pequenios proyectos presentados por
las comunidades organizadas en nuicleos ejecutores, de Asistencia Social,
Infraestructura Social ( Saneamiento Basico, Aulas, Postas y Centros de Salud,
otros), Infraestructura Econ6mica (Riego, Vial, Energia, otros) y Desarrollo
Productivo. Elfinanciamiento &e cada proyecto considera un 70% con recursos
del BIRF y un 30% con el aporte de contrapartida local. En relaci6n al
Componente  Fortalecimiento  Institucional,  el  BIRF  financia  el
Reacondicionamiento del Local Institucional (Obras) hasta por US$ 750 mil, la
adquisici6n de equipos (Bienes) hasta por US$ 750 mil y gastos de Asistencia
Tecnica (Evaluacion Extema, Evaluaciones Ex-Post y otras consultorias) por un
monto de MSs 3.0 millones. (Ver Cuadro N 3)
CUADRO N"3
CONIVENIO DE PRESTAUO No3684-PE-BIRF
(Afillones de US$)
Furanciamiento de Proyedos                   95.5
Fortalecinmento Insuiucional                 4.50
* Obras                                     0.75
* Bienes                                    a075
. Asistencia Tkcnica                         3.00
Fuente: Convenio de Prestamo N3684-PE-BIRF
7



FONCODES
2.3 LOGROS YRESULTADOSALCANZADOS
2.3.1  EJECUCION FINANCIERA DEL CON VENIO DE PRESTAMO
En elperiodo 1994-1997 se han ejecutado recursos delprestamo por UJS$
99.78 nillones, de los cuales corresponden US$ 95.52 millones al
Componente Financianiento de Proyectos y US$ 4.26 millones  al
componente Fortalecimiento Institucional. En este Componente, se ha
ejecutado con los recursos del pr&sta1no: US$ 134 mil en la
rehabilitaci6n del local institucional (Obras), US$ 789 mil en la
adquisici6n de equipos (Bienes) y US$ 3 millones 334 mil en Evaluaci6n
Externa de los Subproyectos financiados y en Consultorias (Asistencia
Tecnica). Ver C.uadro N4
CUADRO IN04
EJECUCION DEL PRESTAMO No3684-PE-BIRF
(Miles de 11S$)
Financinieido deProyedos                            95,519
Fortalecimiento Institucionai                       4,257
 Obras                                              134
 Bienes                                             789
* Asistencia Tecnica                                3,334
Fuente: Division de Operaciones - FONCODES
2.3.2  METAS LOGRADAS EN LA APROBACION Y FIVANCLAMIENTO
DE PROYECTOS
En el periodo 1994 - Junio 1997, FONCODES ha aprobado el
financiamiento de 12,630 proyectos por US$ 520 Millones (no Incluye el
"Programa de Apoyo al FONCODES IIT). De este total, 5,472 pequenos
proyectos por US$ 148.9 millones corresponden a proyectos aprobados
en el marco del Convenio de Prestamo No 3684-PE-BIRF, que representa
el 29% del monto total aprobado.
8



FONCODES
CUADRO N0S
FONCODES - PROYECTOSAPROBADOS 1994- Junio 1997(*)
Convenio NO 3684 - BIRF         5.472,0       148,9      29%
Otras Fuentes                   7.158,0       371,11      71%
(*) No incluye el Programna de Apoyo al FONCODES II. Incluye Proyectos Especiafes
FUENTE: Oficina de Sistemas FONCODES
Elaboracion: Oficina de Pianeamiento
Del nionto total compgrometido con cargo a los recursos del Convenio de
Prestamno, US$ 95.5 millonesfueronfinanciados con recursos del BIRFy
lJS$ 53.4 Millones con recursos de Aporte Local, habiendose infornmado
como contrapartida (apficable a cada desembolso a proyectos) la suma de
US$ 40.9 Millones. El saldo ascendente a US$ 12.5 millones esta siendo
asumido integramente con recursos de Aporte Local al agotarse los
recursos del Prestamo.
Los proyectos aprobados, se distribuyen en 278 proyectos de Asistencia
Social por US$ 7.] millones, 3,608 proyectos de Infraestructura Social
por US$ 88.2 millones, 1,296 proyectos de Infraestructura Econ6mica por
US$ 48.3 millonesy 290 proyectos de Desarrollo Productivo por US$ 5.3
millones. (Ver Cuadro No 6)
Los proyectos financiados se han ejecutado en las comunidaces mds
pobres del pais y contribuyen al objetivo general del gobiemo de
reduccion de los indices de la pobreza extrema.
CUADRO NP6
PROYECTO)SAPROBADOS YFINANCIMIENTO
CONYENJrO DE PRESTAAO NO3684-PE-BIRF
Asistencia Social     278            7,1        4,9           1,1       1,1
lnfr. Social        3.608           88,2       56,9          24,9       6,4
lnfr. Economica      1.296          48,3       30,7          13,6       4,0
Des. Productivo       290            5,3        3i1           1,3       1,0
Fuente: Divisi6n de Operaciones - FON^CODES
2.3.3  GASTOSDE FORTAIECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL
En relaci6n al Coomponente Fortalecimiento Institucional, durante 1994-
1997 se han ejecutado US$ 4.89 Millones, de los cuales US$ 4.26
Millones han sidofinanciados con recursos del BIRFy US$ 633 Mil con
recursos de Tesoro Pzuhlico. (Ver Cuadro N 7)
9



FONCODES
Con cargo a este componente se ha reacondicionado el Local
Institucional, se ha apoyado el proceso de descentralizaci6n mediante la
adquisici6n de equipos de computo, software y otros a traves del lJNOPS,
asi mismo se ha efectuado pagos de evaluaci6n externa de los
subproyectos financiados y se ha financiado servicios de consultoria, lo
cual ha permitido fortalecer la capacidad operativa e institucional del
FONCODES.
CUADRO Ne 7
GASTOSDEFORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL Miles USS)
Obras                  134,5     403,6     538,1
Biones                 788,7     229,6    1.018,3
Asist. Tecnica        3.334,1      0,0    3.334,1
Fuente: Divisi6n de Operaciones -FONCODES
3.    MISIONES DE E VALUACIOJN DEL BANCO MUNDIAL AL FONCODES
El Banco Mundial conjuntamente con el BID han desarrollado visitas de supervisi6n y
segulmiento de los convenios de Prestamo N 3684-PE-BIRF y N 806/OC-PE-BID
respec/ivamente, que se ejecutan en elperiodo 1994-1997.
Las preocupaciones principales de los Bancos se centraron en tres areas: lafocalizacion
de las inversiones, el impacto y Sostenibilidad; y las coordinaciones entre FONCODES,
los ministeriosy municipios:
Asimismo, realizaron la Evaluacion Intermedia en dos (2) etapas: la primera realizada
del 27 de marzo al 5 de Abril de 1995 y la segunda del 14 al 18 de Agosto. Esta
evaluaci6n tambien tuvo como obje/ivo realizar la indagaciones para un eventual
segunda etapa del Programa Esta Evaluacion Intermedia confirmo tanto los resultados
de las otras dos (2) evaluaciones realizadas en 1994, asi como las conclusiones de
numerosas visitas de supervision conjunta del Banco Mundial y el BID, que concluyen
que FONCODES cons/ituye lunfondo social con personal, organizacion y procedimientos
eficientes y que ha establecido un efectivo sistema a nivel nacional para llevar a cabo
pequenosproyectos de infraestructura en las comunidadespobres delpais.
Durante el primer semestre de 1996, en dos opor/unidades (del 20 de febrero al 5 de
marzo y del 20 al 24 de mayo de 1996) FONCODES recibio las visitas conjuntas del
Banco Mundial y del BID, las que tuvieron por obje/ivo la evaluacion para el
financiamiento e implementaci6n del "Prograwa de Apoyo al FONCODES IH" de un
costo total de US$ 430 millonesy que serdfinanciado parcialmente por USS 150 millones
de cada Banco y US$ 130 millones del Aporte Local al Programa En la visita conjunta
del mes de mayo sefirmo elAc/a de Negociaci6npara elfinanciamiento del Programa
10



FONCODES
Del 7 al 18 de Abril de 1997, el B3anco Mundial realizo el seguimiento del Convenio de
Prestamo N 3684-PE, principalmente los aspectos referidos a los Avances de la Cuarta
Evaluaci6n Ex-Post. Asimismo, revisaron los avances en ella implementaci6n del
Programa de Apoyo al FONCODE,S I.
4    RIESGOS DEL PROGRAMA
4.1  SOSTENIBILLDAD DE LOS PROYECTOS FIANCIADOS POR FONCODES
De acuerdo a los resultados de las cuatro Evaluaciones Ex-Post de los proyectos
financiados por FONCODES, la sostenibilidad ha mejorado. De acuerdo a la
Cuarta Evaluaci6n Ex - Post aplicada a una muestra de 350 proyectos
financiados en el periodo 1994-1996, el 84%o de beneficiarios reconocio su
compromniso para el mantenimiento de los proyectos financiados por
FONCODES. Asimismo el ,Q6% de los beneficiarios que mencionaron que la obra
estabafuncionando opinaron que la obra estabafuncionando bien.
Por otro lado, el 85% de los beneficiarios manifest6 que el personal que se
encarga de hacer funcionar la obra (aulas, postas, centros comunales,
principalmente) estd bien calificado o se encuentran mas 6 menos calificados.
Asimismo, el 55%  de los encuestados mencion6 que FONCODES les enseno a
cuidar la obra
FONCODES viene desarrollando acciones con el objetivo de contribuir a la
sostenibilidad de los proyectos a travis de la capacitaci6n a los beneficiarios en
la operaci6ny mantenimiento de los proyectos de saneamiento, sistemas de riego,
rehabilitaci6n de tierras, forestaci6n - reforestaci6ny proyectos produc7Yvos.
4.2   CONTINUIDAD INSTITUCIONAL
En base a los resultados logrados por FONCODESy la necesidad continuar sus
esfuerzos de alivio de la pobreza, un nuevo Programa, el FONCODES II, ha sido
aprobado. El prestamo del Banco Mundial por $ 150 millones ha sido
complementado por un prestamo equivalente del BID. Este Programa serfi
ejecutado en elperiodo 199:7-1999 en las dreas mdspobres delpais.
El Programa se enmarca en el Objetivo general del gobierno para reducir los
actuales niveles de pobreza al 50por cientopara el ano 2000. Aunque estas metas
estan mas a116 de la capacidad de cualquier instituci6n, FONCODES puede jugar
un papel importante en los e, fuerzos del gobiemo para el alivio de la pobreza.
11



FONCODES
Desde que fue creado, el Fondo ha tenido un papel importante en la Poltica
Social Peruana de lucha contra la pobreza, reconocido por amplios y
mayoritarios sectores del pais, como por  la mayoria de organismos
internacionales de cooperacion internacional que apoyan acciones de la lucha
contra la pobreza, dada su gran capacidad de atenci6n de la poblaci6n mas
pobre, la eficiencia en sus operaciones.
S.   IMPACTO DE LOS PROYECTOS
Al analizar los resultados de las cuatro evaluaciones ex-post efectuadas en 1994, 1995,
1996y 1997 a losproyectosfinanciadospor FONCODES, se concluye que el Fondo ha
establecido un efectivo sistema para ilevar a cabo pequenos proyectos en las zonas pobres
delpais.
De acuerdo a losprincipales resultados de la Cuarta Evaluacion Ex Post tenemos que en
relaci6n a la generaci6n de empleo, el 48% de los miembros del Nzucleo Ejecutor
encuestados indicaron que las obras generaron mas de 20 puestos de trabajo, s6lo el 1%
indico que no generaba empleo. Respecto a la participaci6n de la mujer, el 41% de las
encuestadas indico que particip6 en la ejecuci6n de la obray 47% en su mantenimiento.
Asimismo, el 85% de los encuestados senalan que el proyecto ha mejorado las
condiciones de vida en sw zona El 67% de los beneficiarios de proyectos de salud
encuestados indicaron que hubo una disminucion de las enfermedades diarreicas, que fue
identificado tambien como producto de la ejecuci6n de proyectos de agua potable. Por
otro lado, el 90% de los beneficiarios de proyectos de educaci6n senala que la calidad de
la educaci6n que reciben ha mejorado desde que elproyecto se ejecuto. Los proyectos de
transporte de acuerdo a las encuestas han permitido reducir los tiempos para ilegar al
mercado mais cercano.
6     CONCLUSIONES
Entre los principales logros que el Fondo ha logrado obtener en el periodo 1994 - Junio
1997, con el apoyo del BIRFy otras entidades cooperantes, se puede mencionar:
a) Contribuci6n importante al alivio de la pobreza alfinanciar proyectos de infraestructura
basica socialy econ6mica con generaci6n de empleo temporal, que atenuaron los efectos
de la estabiizaci6n econ6mica delpais.
b) La implementaci6n de un sistema de gesti6n yfinancimiento de proyectos que permite
una participacion amplia y directa de la poblaci6n beneficiaria en la identificaci6n,
ejectuci6ny operaci6n de los proyectos, y con ello masificar el Programa de Lucha Contra
la Pobreza que ha desarrollado FONCODES.
12



FONCODES
c) Dar urna rcapida respuesta a las carencias de servicios sociales bdsicos de la poblaci6n,
financiando en promedio 4, 000 pequenos proyectos awuales.
d) Mejor eficiencia en la orientaci6n del gasto en los sectores de mayor pobreza del pais
donde la presencia del Estado ha sido minima o inexistente, debido a que se han
perfeccionado los mecanismos de asignaci6n de la inversi6n social.
13



IBRD 26572R
-.                                                                                                                                          0.   -< 
N,                                                         tX   SA&o                                        '' ,\
ECUADOR                                                             COLOMBIA
TUMBE
:t ,,cy ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IQUITOS<\/i
0)~~~~~
Elte 2, j,m.        Ik
~~tB Toloo                                                          K S  on                         4
BC    NC ,>-5j0/0~    ?~  Cotero   ~         .d -P .t                                                          PAVED ROADS
tEnsboyop    H                     / ,      A N        r                                                  OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
~~.    AJAM4RCA  -'                                              -"--- ~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
P ir n e ntd,g , olono  JucnjN                 (N ->,                         - . =      . .RAILFERRY
Chichkom'   Sdeu~  $bioborAbo                                     -5''                     4 .AIRPORTS
4  AA?PE~~~~~TAD  Tocecho                                 Ji. ~~~~~~ PORTS
TRUJI                                                                                       RIVE b  eo'po  -   RIVERS
'7               --- .  t    0     >_ DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
oDors, \.         0 b    <-;--j'7                 -1                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
7\osum  toHURAZ,    HUAP UCO          tX
R-a Recuy*   eHUANUCOC                          UCAYALi                                
-lo   Hwsmet  o 3 >   t (                 \ 9                                     ea                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loi
OoyBd~P~A SCO0
pCERRO DE                                                         BRApZI L R A  Z   !
P  AC          F! C'                                 PASCO   I          ,f'-
12'~~~~~~~~~~~Pf  U                                   ~C%)                                    '2P.-
0- C    E  A    N,c                   t O'''b<oNaoQ    I N                         t\
C   C T     A   N               onoey      yoe~o,hOCPN I N                - J I             0 Chco  M A D R   DE  D IOS         \ 
~~ ~ )           ~Yocusoc  S I         hoochalQm                                     PUERTO            ,
Li  'OL~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Oisorb                                      %~    ADN
HUANC4 fLICA          UZ O 
4      5 CA                              O    t  o A     R I MoArC ICA  ;                   14o
AYACUCHO   A ;bC, -
P    E      R     U                          Son r    go  'ccori     <_r")                          Juli
KItO+METL ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    Yor           PUN 0  M U G        0   - l
.1 6v  -nssSn nC erJsQuocryirroy  r  noenn                                                                                ;                   168o
Nooro -coeptrintc                            MOOL-EG    A                  i
0   50  100  150  200  250 
KILOMETERS                                                                                 TfEGU47   T~t
TM. bouodorto, color, *6namoinoti-i an-nd any et6 A rioferetlon
9,or cceptce ofsuch boon dori-s
80O7C                                     76,                                         2



