Documut of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12245-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL U.EPORT
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND
(FONCODES)
PROJECT
NOVEMBER 16, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No;         12245 PE
Type: SAR
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(As of November 15, 1993)
Currency Unit = Sole (S./)
US$1 = 2.16 Soles (S./)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ANC                National Association of Centers
BCR                Central Reserve Banlk
CIAS               Inter-ministerial Committee for Social Affairs
COMDES             Social Development Committees
COOPOP             National Office of Popular Cooperation
CORDE CALLAO   Departmental Cooper. for the Development of Callao
CORDE LIMA         Departmental Cooperation for the Development of Lima
DC                 Direct Contracting
FONAVI             National Housing Fund
FONCODES           National Fund for Social Compensation and
Development
GOP                Government of Peru
GTZ                German Development Agency
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IIN                Nutrition Research Institute
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INABIF             National Institute of Family Well-being
INADE              National Institute for Development
INEI               National Institute for Statistics and Informatics
INFES              National Institute of Educational Infrastructure
KfW                Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB                Local Competitive Bidding
LS                 Local Shopping
MEF                Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIGA               Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MD                 Medical Doctor
NGO                Non-governmental Organization
OPIC               Overseas Private Investment Corporation
PAHO               Pan-American Health Organization
PRONAA             National Program for Food Support
PRONABECE          National Program for Goiter and Cretinism Control
SIF                Social Investment Fund
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
TPS                Social Policy Workshop
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Fund
WHO                World Health Organization
PERU FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.  INTRODUCTION                                               1
II.  POVERTY IN PERU
Social Indicators                              1
Social Expenditures                            3
Social Services                                4
m. ECONOMIC REFORM AND
POVERTY ALLEVIATION
The Economic Reform Program                    5
Poverty Alleviation Strategy                   7
Financing Poverty Alleviation                  8
Implementation of the
Poverty Alleviation Strategy                   9
IV. BANK STRATEGY FOR THE
SOCIAL SECTORS IN PERU
Rationale for Bank Involvement                11
Lessons Leamned from Bank Experience
with Social Investment Funds                  12
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which visited Peru in
April and July 1993. Mission members were Messrs/Mmes. Alexandre Abrantes (LA1HR),
Mateen Thobani (LA1EA), Jean-Paul Faguet (LA3BO), Nuno Crato, Jos6 Durdn, Eugen Finkel
and Christian Hurtado (Consultants), and Andrea Delbruck (KfW). Messrs. Rainer B. Steckhan
and Alain Colliou are the Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for this
operation. Peer reviewers were Xavier Coll (LA4HR), Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine a-A2HR),
Margareth Grosh (PHRPA), and Cecilia Valdivieso (MN2PH). Messrs./Mmes. Theresa P.
Jones, Karen Cavanaugh, Juliana Weissman, Sarah Menezes (LAMHR) and Izumi Ohno
(LAlCO), contributed to the report at headquarters. This report draws extensively upon the
Bank's Peru Poverty Assessment and Social Policies and Programs for the Poor Report (Report
No 11191-PE) and the Social Assistance Program in Peru report, prepared by the GOP for the
Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris in June 1993.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   NATIONAL FUND FOR SOCIAL COMPENSATION AND
DEVELOPMENT -- FONCODES
Background and Objectives            13
Performance                          14
Estimated Impact                     16
Organization                         18
Project Portfolio                    20
Financing                            21
Community-based Project Cycle        22
Inter-institutional Coordination     27
VI. THE PROJECT
Objective and Scope                  28
Dcription                            28
Lending and Implementation           30
Costs and Financing Plan             30
Procurement                          32
Supervision and Reporting            35
Disbursements and
Documentation of Expenditures        36
Accounts and Audits                  38
Cost Sharing and Sustainability      38
Environmental Aspects                39
Mid-term Review                      39
VH.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits                             40
Risks                                40
VHII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements                           41
Recommendation                       43
Annexes
1.    Socio-economic Indicators for Peru
2.    Letter of Social Sector Policy
3.    FONCODES Portfolio, January 92 - March 93
4.    FONCODES Administrative Structure
5.    Project Costs and Financing Plan
6.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7.    Key Performance Indicators
8.    Supervision Implementation Plan
9.    Documents Included in the Project File
Maps IBRD No. 24209 -- PERU: Departments
IBRD No. 25190 - PERU: Poverty Map



i
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Peru.
Executing Agency:  Fondo Nacional de Compensaci6n y Desarrollo Social --
FONCODES.
Beneficiaries:    Low-income  households,  through  community
organizations, NGOs and other entities.
Amount:           US$100 million equivalent.
Terms:            Standard IBRD terms, with 20 years maturity and a five
year grace period.
Project Objectives:  The project would (a) sustain the GOP poverty alleviation
efforts, (b) mitigate the social costs of macro-economic
adjustment, and (c) strengthen the institutional capabilities
of FONCODES.  The project would: (i) genciate
employment and improve social services; (ii) promote
strong and self-reliant community organizations; (iii)
complement other nation-wide projects in education and
health; and (iv) maximize support from other potential
donors.
Project Description: The project would support the overall operation of
FONCODES for the period 1994 to 1996. More
specifically, it would: (a) support a range of community-
based, labor-intensive projects, with a strong focus on
education, health and nutrition, and other areas that would
assist poor rural and peri-urban populations; and
(b) support the institutional development of FONCODES.
Benefits:         The project would: (a) improve the availability and
accessibility of social services for the poor; (b) provide
high-return social and economic infrastructure in poor
areas; (c) raise employment and income of workers
employed in community projects; (d) strengthen
community participation and transparent decision maldng;
and (e) attract other donors' investments.



ii
Risks:                The main risks of the project are: (a) discontinuity and
weakened management of the implementing agency in the
event of excessive political instability and interference;
(b) ineffective community project implementation due to
poor targeting, appraisal, supervision or lack of
sustainability; and (c) weakening of existing institutions,
due to the potential diversion of funds from line ministries
and municipalities.
Environmental Category:    B
Estimated Costs:
PERU: Social Development and Compensation Fund Project.
Estimated Costs (USS million)
Componentu                 Local         Foreign         Total
FONCODES
Community-based projects            398.5            70            468.5
bIstitutional Development               17.5            9             26.5
Total Cogst                            416             79            495
o taxes an  uties
Probable Financing Plan:
PERU: Social Development and Compensation Fund Project, Co-financing (US$ million)
F nadng PlanT                    Local           Foreign     T      Total     l
Government of Peru                200               0              200
Beneficiaries                     42                0                42
World Bank                         80              20               100
Inter-American                     80              20               100
Development Bank                               .
Other Donors (including KfW)       14              39                53
Total                             416              79               495
Retroactive Financing:       Up  to  US$10  million  equivalent would  be
permitted for eligible e.-penditures incurred since
August 1, 1993.



iff
Estimated IBRD Disbuzrsements:
Per: Social Development and Compensation Fund Project
Estimated IBRD Disbursements (US$ million)    __    _
lBRD Fisca Year          1994         1995        1996        1997
Auual                     1 25               40          25           101
t.Cumulative                      25          65           90         100
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Poverty Category:            PA - Poverty Alleviation; Program of Targeted
Interventions



PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1   This report presents a Social Development and Compensation Fund
Project for which a World Bank (Bank) loan of US$100 million equivalent to
the Republic of Peru is proposed. Total project cost is estimated at US$495
million equivalent. The Project would consist of a loan to enlarge and enrich
the programs of the National Fund for Social Compensation and Development -
- FONCODES, and to improve its effectiveness and efficiency.  The
Government of Peru (GOP) created FONCODES in 1991, to mitigate the effects
of the previous economic crisis and the social cost of economic adjustment,
through the financing of small-scale, short-term investment projects of
immediate impact on the poor and most vuhlerable. FONCODES has been
designed as a transitional institution, to operate efficiently and transparently,
until the institutional capacity of State social sector entities is strengthened and
structural transformations are consolidated. Until now, the GOP has been the
only source of FONCODES financing, excep; for a small technical assistance
grant provided by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for the
institutional development of FONCODES. The GOP, the IDB and other
bilateral donors such as KfNW have expressed interest in supporting an expansion
of FONCODES programs.
1.2   This report:
(a)   describes the extent and causes of poverty in Peru;
0)   reviews the GOP's program to restructure the economy and the
strategy to alleviate poverty, including the role of FONCODES;
(c)   describes why the Bank should support FONCODES;
(d)   describes and appraises the objectives, performance and
organization of FONCODES; and
(e)   proposes a Bank loan to expand and deepen the FONCODES
program and improve its effectiveness, and provides the
framework for project implementation.
II. POVERTY IN PERU
Social Indicators
2.1.  Poverty is a long-standing problem in Peru. During the last twenty
years, a higher incidence of poverty has persisted in Peru, relative to most of
its neighbors in the region. A comparison of social indicators among countries
in the region shows that Peru ranks near the lowest in most poverty-related
areas such as health, and falls below countries which have similar per capita



-2 -
GDPs. In 1991, Peru had a GNP per capita of US$1,070 equivalent and an
infant mortality of 53 per 1,000 births, higher than other middle income
countries in Latin America such as Colombia, Ecuador, Jamaica and Paraguay.
Moreover, improvements achieved in the last decade were one of the lowest in
the region.
2.2   Poverty is widespread and has worsened over the last eight years.
According to (wo recent nutrition surveys which covered 75 percent of the
country, about 12 million people (53 percent of the population), fall below the
poverty line, with annual incomes below the cost of the basic household basket
which includes food and non-food commodities (US$ 411 and US$245, on the
coast and in the mountainous areas, respectively). Three and a half million
people (21 percent of the population) are extremely poor, with an annual income
below the cost of the basic food basket (US$277 and US$193, on the coast and
in the mountainous areas, respectively). Between 1983 and 1990, real wages
decreased at a 6.1 percent rate. Unemployment stands officially at 5.9 percent
of the economically active population, but it is estimated that 78.5 percent of the
economically astive population is presently under-employed. Finally, 45 percent
of the population does not have access to a reliable source of clean water, and
62 percent does not have access to a public sewerage system.
2.3.  The prevalence of poverty is highest in the rural mountainous areas,
where two thirds of the households are poor and 47 percent fall into the extreme
poverty category. In the mountains less than half the population has access to
a public water system, and only 8 percent have access to public sewerage
removal service. The indigenous populations are much poorer than the rest of
the population: they account for 40 percent of the extremely poor and 25 percent
of the poor; among the indigenous populations, the poorest are the Aymara
speakers, of whom 86 percent are poor and 70 percent are extremely poor.
Poverty is also closely related to education: about two thirds of the extremely
poor households are headed by someone with no more than primary education.
2.4. In health, the situation is characterized by high infant and maternal
mortality rates, malnutrition, high prevalence of endem-ic diseases and new
epidemics, such as cholera. In 1991, the infant mortality rate was 53 per 1,000
births, higher than one would expect in a middle income country. The situation
was far worse in some rural areas, due to long-standing regional and ethnic
inequalities. In Huancavelica, Cuzco, Apurimac, Ayacucho and Puno, infant
mortality rates were higher than 100 deaths per 1,000 births. In 1991, matemal
mortality was at an alarming 30 per ten thousand births and was due to causes
which could be prevented with family planning and deliveries being assisted by
trained birth attendants. Malaria, leishmaniasis, hepatitis, dengue fever and
yellow fever are endemic.  Moreover, some diseases are on the rise:
tuberculosis cases increased 20 percent over the last 10 years and malaria cases
have doubled over the same period. Between 1980 and 1989, acute respiratory
illnesses increased six-fold and acute diarrheal infections doubled.
2.5. The 1991 cholera epidemic demonstrated in a dramatic way the
precariousness of health and sanitary conditions nationwide. Between February



- 3 -
and June 1991, 223,000 cases were reported, one of the most serious epidemics
of this century.  Although neighboring countries also suffered cholera
epidemics, none had such a large number of cases and deaths.
2.6.  In nutrition, chronic child malnutrition is a serious and widespread
problem. In 1991, malnutrition affected 13 percent of children under the age
of 5, but the percentage was as high as 73 percent in some rural areas, and is
estimated to cause about 9,000 deaths per year. Child growth seems to be
jeopardized more by inappropriate weaning practices and infection than by lack
of food availability. In 1986/87, a national survey estimated that goiter was
endemic in 88 percent of the mountainous and jungle communities, averaging
34 percent among school children.  The government has mandated the
production and distribution of iodized salt, but only 60 percent of the population
has access to it, due to its high cost, poor distribution and the widespread
availability of non- iodized salt. The incidence of iron deficiency anemia has
not been estimated, but small-scale studies suggest it is also a problem among
pregnant and lactating women, and children.
2.7. In education, the situation is characterized by high illiteracy and
repetition rates. In 1991, about 15 percent of the population was illiterate. The
problem was particularly sexious among the rural population (29 percent
illiterate) and women (21 percent illiterate). Forty-four percent of rural women
could not read or write. Although figures suggest high primary and secondary
enrollment ratios, repetition rates are very high. By 1988 it was estimated that,
for each 100 children entering primary school, only 31 finished on time, 45
percent fiiled to pass at least once, and 24 dropped out altogether. The average
Peruvian student was 2.5 years behind the grade the student should have been
attending at his or her age, and those from Quechua- or Aymara-speaking
parents were about 3.6 years behind. The picture was similar at the seconda y
level, where a large percentage of students taldng a standardized test at the end
of the cycle scored below the norm in mathematics, language, social sciences
and natural sciences, and about 7 percent drop out before graduation. Pre-
school attendance of children 3-5 year old was about 50 peicent.
Social Expenditures
2.8. Peru has generally spent less than its neighbors in the social sectors and
investments have dwindled in recent years. For example, in 1987, in South
America, only Argentina and Paraguay spent less in education, as a proportion
of GNP. The health share of central government expenditures has remained
fairly stable at 4-5 percent through the 1970s and 1980s, falling to about 3.2
percent in 1990, when it was only 0.5 of GDP and the equivalent of US$8.3 per
capita. As for the education sector, the government emphasis has lessened,
from about 18 percent of central government spending in the 1970s, to 9.7
percent in 1990, when it had fallen to 1.4 percent of GDP and the equivalent of
US$25 per capita.



-4 -
2.9 Public resources available for social services in Peru have become
scarcer with the severe recession and the near vanishing of the country's tax
system but, on average, social expenditures were somewhat protected from the
most severe expenditure reductions. In 1990, central government expenditures
amounted to 15 percent of GDP which, in real terms, means that they were 65
percent lower than in 1980 and 30 percent below the 1970 level, but health
expenditures only decreased about half as much as total expenditures and in
education the figures suggest a similar picture. In spite of scarce resources,
formal cost-sharing was not considered an option until very recently, although
there is some evidence that the poor have to incur significant out of pocket
health care expenditures.
Social Services
2.10. In general, the situation regarding tie provision of social services is the
following: (a) generally adequate number of facilities which, however, are often
deteriorated and lack appropriate technology; (b) a reasonable supply of
personnel, who are poorly distributed and trained; (c) severe shortages of
supplies; and (d) inefficiency and low priority given to cost-effective
technologies.
2..11 In health, there has been a significant expansion of the prmary health
care infrastructure over the last ten years. The number of health centers has
increased by 60 percent and the number of health posts has doubled, supplying
a relatively good level of 1.9 facilities per 10,000 inhabitants. However, there
is marked physical deterioration of buildings and widespread scarcity of
equipment, personnel is poorly distributed and little is spent on critical cost-
effective interventions. Personnel is concentrated in Lima and other cities,
being scarce in the mountainous areas (1 doctor/34,000 people), and the number
of nurses is clearly insufficient (doctors/nurses = 1.29). Salaries and morale
are very low, resulting in abysmal productivity (e.g. 2 consultations per hour
in ambulatory care). Finally, public services are poorly coordinated with other
sources of traditional community-basel health care, such as municipalities,
NGOs, the church and grass-roots oiganizations, leading to ineffective and
inefficient management of resources.
2.12. While the coverage of high risk groups with health services may appear
adequate, he intensity and quality of services is poor. In 1991, child-health
services covered an impressive 86 percent of all infants under age of one, but
only reached 24 percent of children aged 1-4. Matemal-care services covered
57 percent of pregnant women, but only 13 percent of those lactating, and only
36 percent of women at child-bearing age used family planning services. The
high coverage of infants under one may reflect the fact that parents have to take
their children to a health center in order to get a birth certificate. The number
of consultations was also very low, 0.4 ver year for a pre-school and school age
child. The availability of critical pharmaceuticals is inadequate, due to
disorganized distribution, budget constraints and failure to give it priority.



2.13. in nutrition, the Ministry of Health's Child Growth and Development
Programn is the only large scale promotional program. The program is well
designed and essentially ai ns at targeting nutrition supplements to mothers and
children at high risk of mnalnutrition, and at rehabilitating malnourished children.
Low funding for the program contributes to a high concentration of activities in
Lima and limited supervision outside the capital. In addition, the Ministry
operates the National Program to Control Goiter and Endemic Cretinism
(PRONABECE), but there are no data on which to judge its effectiveness and
efficiency.
2.14. In education, there has been an impressive expansion of primary
enrollments. Parents are committed to sending their children to school, as 97
percent of each age cohort enrolls in the first grade, on time. By 1990, while
enrollment was up, the real level of expenditures in education declined to a low
of US$80 per student, causing: (a) an exodus of trained teachers from the
system; (b) poor maintenance of the infrastructure; and (c) lack of textbooks and
teaching materials in the classroom.
2.15. Due to salary erosion, many trained peisonnel left the teaching
profession and the proportion of uncertified teachers rose to 50 percent in 1990.
As a result the quality of service deteriorated, repetition rates increased,
particularly in the early grades, and the wide geographical disparities in
educational attainment and efflciency increased. Secondary education offers
very little intermediate technical or professional training.
2.16. In spite of the low levels of academic performance, 25 percent of the
relevant age group is enrolled in institutions of higher education and government
spending on higher education represented, in 1984, about a third of total
expenditures in education, surpassed on the continent only by Venezuela.
HI. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION
The Economic Reform Program
3.1.  The major reason for the persistence of a relatively high incidence of
poverty in Peru is the past dismal performance of the economy. The
Govemment intervened excessively in the economy and the legal and
administrative structure discouraged growth. The economy became closed and
did not create enough jobs. The public sector became overextended and wasted
resources. An attempt to implement an unorthodox economic program in the
mid-1980's compounded these problems and caused plummeting output and
hypeifation. The Government was forced to reduce spending to extremely
low levels, although social services were somewhat protected. Nevertheless, the
overall scarcity of resources has meant that Peru has been able to spend very
little on the social sectors.



- 6-
3.2.  In July 1990, the situation was characterized by hyperinflation (400
percent in August 1990), deep recession, high unemployment, and severe
reduction of family income, with real wages reduced by one-half in three years.
Tax revenues collapsed, the deficit reached 13 percent of GDP and the Central
Bank was depleted of its reserves. The Government defaulted on paying its
debts to international creditors and lost its credibility in the international
financial markets.   Finally, the economic collapse resulted in severe
deterioration of all public services. Basic infrastructure, health services and
swurity were left to deteriorate as the crisis deepened, leading to increasing
poverty and loss of social cohesion.
3.3. To reverse a long period of poor economic perfornance, r.sing poverty
levels and declining living standards, the Government in 1990 launched an
economic stabilization and structural reform program aimed at controlling
inflation, establishing the basis for sustainable economic growth, and
reestablishing international credibility. The stabilization program included: (a)
fiscal discipline and reform of the exchange rate mechanism, (b) deregulation
of economic activity, and (d) promotion of competitiveness.
3.4. The Government reduced public expenditures to the level of its fiscal
resources, severed all subsidies, and fought tax evasion and smuggling, bringing
inflation down to 56 percent by February 1993. It adjusted monetary policy
to match the reduced inflation targets and set the exchange rate to discourage
cheap imports and stimulate exports. Finally, it linked the primary emission of
currency to the purchase of foreign exchange by the Central Bank and
deregulated the financial system and interest rates.
3.5. The Government deregulated the commercial and financial markets,
reduced import duties drastically and removed other restrictions to imports. It
liberalized international financial operations, allowing for transfers from
Peruvians abroad. Finally, the Government limited its intervention in the
economy, and reduced the number of civil servants, by offering strong
incentives for early retirement.
3.6. To promote competitiveness, the Government is implementing a large
program to privatize about 70 public enterprises, attracting capital into the
country and generating productive investments and sustainable employment.
The GOP is also promoting private investment by: (a) opening the
infrastructure, education and other social sectors to private initiative, (b)
facilitating land transactions, (c) negotiating international banking guarantees
with MIGA and OPIC, and promulgating a code for international investments,
and (d) opening the market for private pensions. Finally, the Government passed
a series of laws to promote an efficient labor market, including the elimination
of indexed wages, temporary contracts, and linking job stability to productivity
and the financial situation of the firm.
3.7. To reestablish international credibility, the GOP renegotiated the
servicing of its bilateral and multilateral debt and has recently cleared its arrears
with the Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). In 1991, the



- 7 -
international community, led by the USA and Japan, reacted positively to the
economic program described above and created the First Support Group. From
this Group, Peru received a combination of grants and loans. In 1993, a Second
Support Group committed about US$2.8 billion for 1993-94 and Peru has again
become eligible to borrow from the IMF. The debt to the Paris Club and other
international creditors has also been renegotiated, while negotiations with China
and other East European creditors are still underway.
Poverty Alleviation Strategy
3.8.  Economic  recovery, stimulated  by  economic  stabilization  and
deregulation, is the basis of the poverty alleviation strategy. Economic growth
will benefit the poor by providing them with more opportunity to use their
assets, such as labor and land. It will offer job opportunities, raise income and
provide for the basic needs of the poor. However, in the short run, the poor are
likely to be adversely affected by the program, as the benefits of growth will not
flow immediately to all the poor, particularly in Peru, where macroeconomic
instability and economic deterioration have been severe and where extreme
regional disparities exist in the welfare of the population.
3.9.  In the meantime, the poor must have access to health and education
services; otherwise, they will not be able to benefit from the opportunities
available in an expanding economy. In spite of improved social services, in the
short run, some groups will remain vulnerable, because they are already living
on the edge.  For these people, social compensation programs, such as
employment generation and food assistance, can complement the two main
elements of a poverty alleviation strategy - promotion of broad-based growth
and improved and more equitably distributed social services.
3.10. To tackle the problem in the long-term the Government is trying to
stimulate economic recovery, is increasing its social investments, and requiring
that social programs be targeted to the poorest and be more efficient.
Specifically, the objectives of the GOP poverty alleviation strategy are:
(a)  to improve the availability and quality of primary and preventive
health care, with an emphasis on rural and peri-urban areas;
(b)   to improve the efficiency and quality of education, with an
emphasis on primary education in rural and peri-urban areas;
(c)   to support schools with feeding programs and the distribution of
books and other teaching materials; and promote basic literacy
and job training for adults;
(d)   to distribute food supplements to the most vulnerable strata of the
population in rural and peri-urban areas;
(e)   to raise income and generate employment in poor rural and peri-
urban areas, through labor-intensive social infrastructure projects
and support to production; and
(f)  to support credit for small, informal sector micro-entrepreneurs
and farmers, in order to improve efficiency.



- 8 -
3.11. To respond to the immediate needs of the poor, the GOP created the
Social Emergency Program in August 1990, with activities in the areas of
education, health and nutrition, and employment for the poorest. Over two
months, the Government channelled about US$65 million of food and health
care supplies through community organizations such as mother's clubs,
community kitchens and the Catholic Church. In August 1991, the GOP created
the National Fund for Social Compensation and Development - FONCODES,
a social development fund to finance temporarily labor intensive projects with
a strong focus on employment generation, health and nutrition services and
education programs, as well as other investments for productive activities, such
as support to micro-enterprises and farmers, that could assist urban and rural
populations.
3.12. Given the current resource constraints and the need for continued fiscal
discipline, the GOP is targeting its poverty alleviation programs to the very poor
and the most vulnerable. Geographically, targeting is based on poverty maps,
which have been drawn on the basis of low income, high unemployment or
under-employment, associated with high infant mortality, malnutrition, illiteracy
and repetition rates, as well as with poor accessibility to social services. On the
basis of these criteria, Apurfmac, Huancavelica, Ayacucho, Cuzco, Cajamarca
and Puno correspond to the poorest areas of Peru (Maps). It is proposed that
poverty surveillance be carried on a regular basis by the Inter-ministerial
Commission on Social Affairs and the Technical Committee for Social
Development, which include the Central Reserve Bank (BCR), the National
Institute for Statistics and Informatics (INEI), the Social Policy Workshop
(TIS), the Nutrition Research Institute (IN) and UNICEF.
Financing Poverty Alleviation
3.13. The GOP is increasing the level of its investment in the social sectors
and requiring that social services be more efficient. From August to November
1990, the Government allocated US$89 million to an emergency social
program, raising it to US$124 million in 1991, and again to US$225 million in
1992. For 1993, the GOP has allocated US$424 million (1 percent of GDP) for
the alleviation of extreme poverty and plans to raise its support to a level of 1.5
percent of GDP by 1995. One-half of these investments are to be channelled
through FONCODES, and the rest through other agencies. In 1993, the
Ministries of Education and Health have been allocated US$338 million and
US$194 million, respectively.
3.14. Private investment in the social sectors and in poverty alleviation is
significant, amounting to more than US$35 million per year. It is estimated that
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) spend some US$10 milion, that the
Catholic Church invests another US$20 million, and that private enterprises
contribute directly with some US$5 million.
3.15. Multilateral and bilateral agencies have contributed significantly to
poverty alleviation programs and their assistance will continue to be essential for
some time.



-9-
llmplementation of the Poverty Alleviation Strategy
3.16. The poverty alleviation strategy will be implemented by a combination
of central and decentralized responsibilities, with strong and direct community
participation, and with the involvement of both public and NGOs.
3.17. The later-ministerial Committee for Social Affairs (CIAS) coordinates
the Country's poverty alleviation strategy and policy. The CIAS is chaired by
the Prime Minister and includes the Ministries of the Presidency, Economy and
Finance, Health, Education and Labor.
3.18. The CIAS is to be supported by several technical Social Development
Commtees (COMDES), which would be created on an ad hoc basis to deal
with specific issues and include specialists from the relevant sectors. One
specific COMDES would monitor and oversee progress in achieving the targets.
The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) provides the secretariat for these
COMDES.
3.19. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) will carry out the
necessary poverty studies, to identify the most vulnerable strata of the
population, study alternative strategies for financing the social sectors, propose
target groups and specific program objectives, coordinate with ministries and
other executing agencies, appraise programs and projects and evaluate, axpost,
how these affect the life of the target population.
3.20. The Ministries of Education and Health will implement the relevant
long-term development programs and are being allocated specific budgets for
this purpose. Social sector lne ministries and other existing social agencies and
programs are at this time weak, and will take some time to reform.
3.21. There are also a wide range of other active social sector agencies, but
considerable gaps and duplications in functions exist: (a) the National Program
for Food Support (PRONAA) provides food assistance and security, mainly in
areas seriously affected by terrorism; (b) the National Institute of Educational
Infrastructure (INFES) is responsible for rehabilitating, building and equipping
schools; (c) the National Office of Popular Cooperation (COOPOP) promotes
community work; (d) the National Institute of Family Well-being (INABIFF)
provides social services for problem families, children and adolescents; (e) the
National histitute for Development (INADE) manages large national
investment projects; and (f) the National Housing Fund (FONAVI) finances
projects in urban infrastructure.
3.22. The Fondo Nacional de Compensacl6n y Desarroilo Social -
FONCODES, created in August 1991, will cushion the poor and the most
vulnerable against the negative effects of economic adjustment, and until line
ministries and other more permanent social agencies undergo strengthening and
reforn. It operates as a social bank and financial intermediary for national
social investments, and for multilateral and bilateral grants and loans. It



- 10-
finances small, community-based, labor-intensive, privately contracted, projects
with a strong focus on employment generation, health, nutrition and education
programs, on the rehabilitation of both the economic and social infrastructure,
as well as other investments, such as support to micro-enterprises, targeted on
urban and rural populations living in extreme poverty. It is an instrument to
improve the quality, equity and efficiency of social investment. This project
would specifically contribute to an enlargement and enrichment of its programs
and improve its effectiveness and efficiency.
3.23. Municipalities are seen as a necessary part of the poverty alleviation
strategy, but have been unable to respond effectively, given the constraints
imposed by central-local fiscal relationship,, imperfect or absent investment
financing and cost-recovery mechanisms as well as weak administrative
capacities. At this time, municipalities are under-funded and access to quality
of municipal-level services is still deteriorating, with the attendant negative
consequences for productivity, poverty alleviation and environmental
amelioration.
3.24 Municipalities are being progressively involved in the implementation of
the poverty alleviation program, and are receiving increasing responsibilities and
resources from the Central Government. In time, municipalities are expected
to be the major actors in poverty alleviation, as they take responsibility for
primary education, primary health care, public health, children centers,
recreation, and special employment programs. At present the "Glass of Milk
Program", in which committees of mothers distribute milk to target children, is
already managed by municipalities.
3.25. Communities have organized themselves to respond to their immediate
social needs. Mothers' clubs, "Glass of Milk" clubs, community kitchens, and
neighborhood associations have proliferattd. To apply for FONCODES grants,
communities have organized themselves into thousands of "executing
committees" which have been able to generate about 12,000 proposals and
execute half as many. The education decentralization reform, which is being
proposed by the Ministry of Education, in which parents' committees will be
awarded by the Ministry a grant per enrolled student for directly managing
primary schools, offers a test for how further social responsibilities could be
assumed by communities.
3.26. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are deeply involved in the
implementation of poverty alleviation programs. At present, in Peru, it is
estimated that there are over 700 NGOs, organized in the National Association
of Centers (ANC) and other consortia. For years, they have been active in rural
development and support to micro-enterprises (36 percent), basic education (57
percent), basic health care (23 percent), human rights (10 percent), and
environment and social studies (45 percent). Many of them are deeply involved
in FONCODES community-based projects, as promoters, intermediaries and
implementers.



- 11 -
IV. BANK STRATEGY FOR THE SOCIAL SECTORS IN PERU
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.1. The Bank is supporting the Government of Peru in a three-part poverty
alleviation strategy, which consists of: (a) encouragement of broad-based
economic growth, through private sector development and public sector reform,
(b) development of human capital, and (c) mitigation of the short-term impact
of adjustment.
4.2. To encourage economic stability and adjustment, the Bank has approved
four adjustment and one technical assistance loan:
(a)   Trade Policy Reform Loan (L-3437-PE), including a reform of
the -xchange regime, tariffs, import barriers, export regime and
trade institutions;
(b)   Structural Adjustment Loan (L-3452-PE), including reforms of
the macroeconomic and fiscal policies, social sector strategy,
privatization and deregulation, agriculture, labor issues and social
security;
(c) Financial Sector Adjustment (L-3489-PE), including reforms of
the development banks, "Banco de La Naci6n", privatization,
banking supervision and regulation and capital markets;
(d)   Privatization Technical Assistance (L-3540-PE); and
(e)   Privatization Adjustment Loan (L-3595-PE).
4.3.  In the area of human capital and poverty alleviation, Bank strategy
emanates from the Poverty Assessment and Social Policies and Programs for
the Poor (Report No. 11191-PE), and is to:
(a)   Alleviate poverty and cushion vulnerable groups against potential
negative effects of the economic adjustment program;
(b)   Improve the provision of basic social services to the poor and to
the most vulnerable groups;
(c)   Strengthen the effectiveness and self-reliance of community and
other non-governmental organizations; and
(d)   Support the rehabilitation of the social infrastructure in the
poorest rural and peri-urban areas.
4.4.  To implement this strategy, the Bank is preparing a Basic lHealth and
Nutrition Project, and identifying a Basic Education Project, which are
expected to strengthen and contribute to the reform of the relevant line
ministries.
4.5.  The proposed project would complement these long-term efforts with a
rapid and targeted initiative to assist low income communities to: (a) reestablish
basic infrastructure and public services, (b) generate employment and (c) put in
place the key elements of a social safety net. With its range of experience with



- 12 -
social funds, the Bank is well placed to help strengthen FONCODES'
management, improve its effectiveness and stimulate the involvement of other
potental donors.
Lessons Learned from Bank Experience with Social Investment Funds
4.6.  Pioneered in Bolivia, Social Investment Funds (SIFs) have since spread
to other countries in Latin America, including Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Nicaragua, and are under preparation in Chile, Ecuador, and Guatemala.
Typically, they target low-income groups and areas by financing small-scale
development projects, generated and administered by community-based
organizations. Projects are generally carried out by private contractors,
incorporating a high proportion of local labor and materials.
4.7. Experience shows that success of SIFs depends on:
(a)   Semi-autonomous manageme and weUl paid high quality staff
to reduce the potential for political influence;
(b)   Demand-riven mechanisms for project generation, with
strong local participation, to ensure ownership, sustainability,
project relevance and stimulation of community organization and
social cohesion;
(c)   Targeting mechanim  based on poverty maps, to ensure that
the poorest groups and areas are reached;
(d)   Promotion  and  support for community-based  project
generation, in poor municipalities where communities have
difficulty in generating projects;
(e) Simple conmmunity-based project desig and transparent
procedures to allow for efficient sub-project appraisal and
implementation;
(f)   Execution  of  community-based  projects  by  private
contractors, to stimulate efficiency and strengthen the local
economy; and
(g) Regular and frequent financial and operational audits to
ensure transparency and accountability, which are essential to
mobilizing external funds.
4.8.  Poorly implemented Social Investment Funds can result in:
(a)   Instability of the implementing agency;
(b)   Poor targeting, projects not reaching the poorest or the most
vulnerable; and
(c)   Nonsustainable or otherwise ineffective community-based
projects, due to poor appraisal, execution or supervision; and
(d)   Weakening of other social sector agencies, such as the
ministries of education, health or public works.



- 13 -
4.9. Most conditions for a successful operation in Peru have been present
since August 1992, and have contributed to the remarkable record of
FONCODES since then: (a) high-level management is of high quality and enjoys
significant autonomy from political influence; (b) projects are based on grass-
roots community organizations; (c) targeting, appraisal and selection are
adequate; and (d) project execution draws extensively on the local private sector.
On the other hand: (a) promotion and project development must be supported
in some very poor areas where demand is lower than what could be expected
from the level of poverty, and (b) project sustainability and supervision have to
be improved. These concerns have been included in the revised Operational
Manual which was transmitted to the Bank prior to negotiations (8.1).
V. NATIONAL FUND FOR SOCIAL COMPENSATION
AND DEVELOPMENT -- FONCODES
5.1.  The proposed Project would support the overall operation of
FONCODES for the period 1994 to 1996. It would consist of a loan to enlarge
and erdich FONCODES' programs, and to improve its effectiveness and
efficiency. The next sections describe and appraise FONCODES' objectives,
activities and impact, resources and organization.
Background and Objectives
5.2. The Government of Peru created FONCODES on August 15, 1991, in
an effort to mitigate the social costs of economic adjustment through the
financing of small scale, short-term social investment projects of immediate
impact on the poor and most vulnetable. After the first 17 months of
operations, the GOP reviewed the Fund's legal statutes on December 30, 1992,
in order to reinforce its autonomy and improve its efficiency. On that date,
FONCODES became a decentralized public agency, which depends directly on
the President of the Republic, with technical, administrative, economic and
financial autonomy. It also became the principal social sector Government
magnet for international, bilateral and multilateral aid, credit and development
agencies.
5.3. FONCODES finances small-scale projects in social and economic
infrastructure, as well as programs in social assistance and income-generation,
geared towards improving the living standards of the poor. Emphasis is given
to the areas of education, health and nutrition, sanitation and employment-
income generation. Projects and programs must be managed by community
organizations with technical assistance from regional and municipal
governments, ministries, NGOs and independent professionals.



- 14 -
5.4.  FONCODES targets its social assistance projects towards the population
affected by structural poverty, and its infrastructure and employment generating
programs to those who have slipped into poverty and extreme poverty as a result
of recession and economic adjustment. These groups include:
(a)   Severely depressed rural and indigenous communities and those
most affected by instability;
(b)   Community organizations in peri-urban areas;
(c)   Small-scale farmers, fishermen and artisans, and other micro-
entrepreneurs; and
(d)   Womeni and children.
Performance
5.5. During its short life, FONCODES has had a remarkable performance.
From January 1992 until March 1993, PONCODES, reviewed 12,035
community-based project proposals, for an estimated US$542 million, of which
FONCODES approved 6,036 (50 percent approval rate), estimated to be worth
US$176 million. Approval rates varied by type of project. By February 1993,
4,073 contracts had been signed with community organizations, which
completed 818 projects (20 percent), and disbursed the full US$116 million
FONCODES budget allocation for 1993 (Annex 3).
FONCODES - Proposals and Contracts, by Sub-project Type. August 1992 - March 1993
Type of Project         Proposals   Approved  | Approval
; (US$542 M)  (US$176 M)   Rate
Social Assistauce                  6.4%        6.0%      31%
Social Infrastructure              42.6%      56.5%      43%
Economic Ilfrastructure           32.0%       31.0%      31%
Income and Employment              19.0%       6.5%      11%
Generation
5.6.  FONCODES has been effective in targeting its resources to the poorest
areas. Ninety-two percent of all community-based projects it has financed
originated in the 50 poorest provinces, and it has allocated 50 percent of its
investments for this purpose. Community projects in these extremely poor areas
account for: (a) 49 percent of all contracts, (b) 48 percent of newly-generated
jobs, and (c) 35 percent of all beneficiaries.
5.7.  Community-based projects were appraised and executed without major
problems even in areas under the state of emergency, such as Ayacucho,
Huancavelica and San Martfn. In these areas, FONCODES approved over
1,000 projects, for more than US$55 million, which generated more than 2.1
million workdays and benefited more than 2 million people. Projects were
carried out even in Iberia (Madre De Dios), close to the border with Brazil, in
an area which can only be reached by plane or after several days of rough road
travel.



- 15 -
5.8.  During identification, preparation and appraisal, Bank staff and
consultants visited more than 50 community-based projects and reviewed the
files of many more. In general, Infrastructure projects, which constitute more
than 80 percent of the portfolio, were of good quality, using high quality
materials and equipment. For some, such as water and power supply, and
irrigation, the sustainability and maintenance of the project had not been well
considered. The Project would introduce these concerns as key elements of
appraisal and supervision (para 6.38.)
5.9.  Social assistance projects, which constituted only 6 percent of
FONCODES portfolio, varied in quality. Some health projects, such as cholera
and endemic disease control, were typical Ministry health promotion and
preventive campaigns, managed through WHO/PAHO, with relatively little
community participation. On the other hand, education sector projects, such as
the school breakfast project, offer excellent examples of how to transform
vertical, top-down social programs into highly participative community-based
projects.  In the school breakfast project, parent associations organized
themselves into executing committees, representing at least 1,000 students, to
present project proposals, in which they would take the responsibility for
delivering school breakfasts to a certain number of students for a year.
FONCODES hired the Institute of Nutritional Research, a specialized NGO, to
define the technical specifications for a balanced school breakfast and to
organize a local competitive bidding procedure for companies wishing to
providing the nutritional supplements. FONCODES signed an umbrella contract
with the winning company, to provide a certain number of school breakfasts
over one year. When a community-based project is approved, the company
starts delivering monthly supplies to the Departmental capital, where the
parents' associations come to collect them. After checking that all is in order,
the executing committee authorizes the payment to the supplier. The parents
also organize the daily preparation and delivery of the school breakfasts to the
students, during the morning break.
5.10. Credits to small-scale farmers and entrepreneurs, for income and
employment generation, constitute only about 6 percent of the project
portfolio. FONCODES provided for the establishment of revolving funds, to
be administered by NGOs (79 percent), such as CARE, IDESI and HABITAT,
and by 'savings and loans" financial institutions, such as the Federation of
Municipal Savings and Loans. Because banks generally do not give loans to
small-scale entrepreneurs, often in the informal sector, NGOs and savings and
loans are, at present, the Peruvian financial institutions which are best placed
for reaching the target beneficiaries. Credit awarded at market conditions has
benefited mostly rural communities (66 percent of the awarded loans), and the
financial intermediaries ensured adequate training and technical assistance to the
beneficiaries, and have had low loan default rates, ranging from 4 to 8 percent.
The Lima Savings and Loans was an exception, as it did not provide adequate
technical assistance, showed poor loan judgement, and accumulated a much
higher level of bad debts. As a result, FONCODES will not renew its contract
with this agency.



- 16-
5.11. The contracts with the financial intermediaries were not clear on the
provisions for returning the revolving funds to FONCODES, and were not
standardized regarding the financing of the operational costs of the intermediary
institution and the credit conditions for beneficia!ies. Supervision of this type
of projects needed more resources and an improved management information
system.  The project would make sure that these would be taken into
consideration in the institutional development of FONCODES (paras 5.52,
8.1,c.)
5.12. Community-based projects to support small-scale farmers, with the
exception of those which distributed agricultural inputs to areas suffering from
last year's drought, appeared to be adequately targeted and of high priority, to
be well designed and sustainable, and to rely on the private sector for execution.
5.13. The operation of FONCODES has been efficient, with administrative
costs representing only 4 percent of the total budget in 1992. FONCODES
increased its sub-project processing rate from 308 projects a month in late 1992,
to 858 projects per month in the first quarter of 1993. The time taken to
approve or reject a project proposal has diminished from an average of 119 days
in late 1992, to 42 days in the first quarter of 1993. Yet, this achievement
occurred in spite of clear resource shortages: vehicles were too few, as were
computer terminals, telephones, faxes and radios. The proposed project would
support the institutional development of FONCODES, according to a plan
FONCODES has developed with the technical assistance of IDB and is
acceptable to the Bank. According to the plan, all Regional Offices would have
at least two vehicles, an adequate number of computer terminals and
peripherals, and a telephone, fax and radio system (para 6.3.b.ii.)
Estimated Impact
5.14. Community-based projects funded by FONCODES are estimated to have
benefited over 10 million people and generated over 8 niillion paid workdays,
i.e., about 30,000 man-years.
FONCODES - Impact and Cost Effectiveness, by Sub-project Type
7ype of Projec t    Benefiiaries     Wor*-days T US$ per I US$ per
I   Milion     JMillion   benefic.   work day
Social Assistance       8.1         N.A.       1.3     N.A.
Social Infrastructure    3.5         2.2       15.2      25
Economic lnfrastructure   1.8          3.2      23.7      13
Income and Employment     1.8          2.6      13.5       10
Generation



- 17 -
5.15. The relatively few social assistance projects benefited more than twice
as many people as any other type of project. On the other hand, economic
infrastructure sub-projects benefited relatively fewer people, but generated the
largest number of workdays. Income and employment generating sub-projects
were the most efficient in creating jobs. The credits to small-scale farmers and
entrepreneurs incorporated the beneficiaries into the formal economic structure
and assisted them in organizing production and taling advantage of economies
of scale, while infrastructure projects have trained many unskilled workers,
providing local populations with valuable assets.
5.16. During appraisal a sample of 10 typical projects was selected for a
beneficiary assessment. All projects were clearly oriented to satisfy real needs
of the beneficiaries, although in two cases, one could argue that the satisfaction
of other needs might have been more urgent. The commitment and direct
contributions of the population were remarkable, including voluntary work-
hours, collective volunteer work-ays, and acceptance of salaries well below
market wages, which allowed the project to reach the most needed. Equally
remarkable was the working relationship between the communities, promoters,
inspectors and FONCODES staff. This beneficiary assessment served both to
assess a certain number of projects, but also to develop the terms of reference
for an ongoing expost evaluation of a sample of projects, which the project will
include, based on a mix of traditional economic evaluation and a more
qualitative beneficiary assessment (paras 5.61., 6.25.g.)
5.17. All the evaluated projects were successful in the immediate alleviation
of poverty and in generating temporary employment, mostly for unskilled
workers, but the effective generation of permanent employment was modest, as
is usually the case for social investment funds which are designed to provide
short-term poverty alleviation measures during a period of economic adjustment.
To generate more permanent employment, FONCODES would have to promote
certain project types, such as agriculture land rehabilitation, terracing,
community kitchens, storage and commercialization centers, cattle breeding,
dairy and livestock, fishing, and investments in small enterprises.
5.18. Some of the evaluated community-based projects would not be
sustainable, unless additional investments were carried out. Typicaly, it was
a question of an originally comprehensive and sustainable project, being cut into
several smaller unsustainable sub-projects to accommodate FONCODES
eligibility and appraisal criteria, with the underlying hope of being able to have
the series of sub-projects approved in succession and, thereby, achieve the
original project objectives. In such cases, it would make sense for FONCODES
to request a revision of the relevant proposal, or to promote the needed
complementary community projects (para 6.38.)
5.19. Communities also benefited from organizing themselves to prepare and
manage project execution. This process contributed to community organization
dynamism, self-reliance and effectiveness. Communities were energized by
their positive experiences and many have proceeded from completing their first
project to preparing a second one.



- 18-
5.20. The risk of FONCODES being used as an instrument of political
manipulation was considered during project preparation and appraisal. The
Bank's and the IDB's staff and consultants involved reviewed FONCODES' past
experience and confirmed that there had been no serious or negative political
manipulation in FONCODES project selection. Almost all of the projects
visited were genuinely grass-roots, community-based and responded to real
needs of the population. In some remote areas, the name FONCODES was not
even associated with the Government, but was thought to correspond to the
acronym of an NGO. The project would monitor the risk closely, through Bank
supervision and independent ex post evaluation of a sample of projects.
Organization
5.21. FONCODES is a small organization, relative to the overall resources and
number of projects it manages. It has a staff of 200, 70 percent of which are
professionals. These are complemented by another 250 external evaluators and
supervisors. In 1992, overhead costs were about 4 percent of the institution's
yearly budget.
5.22. The organizational structure is simple and sound. The President of the
Republic directly appoints the five-member Board of Directors which is chaired
by the Minister of the Presidency. The Board defines general policies and
regulates and supervises the overall operation of FONCODES. It also ratifies
decisions on community-based projects which would cost over US$100,000
equivalent. One of the Board members is appointed Executive Director, and
is responsible for executing Board decisions and for the institutional
representation of the Fund. The rest of the organizational structure (Annex 4)
is still evolving and is presently composed of:
(a)   A  General Manager, who plans, organizes, coordinates,
supervises and evaluates, according to the statutes and policies
established by the board;
(b)   Three line managers, for:
(i)   Programs and Projects, responsible for targeting,
promotion, and appraisal;
(ii) Supervision and Control, responsible for supervision,
and contract management; and
(iii) Operations, for budgeting, accounting and managing
disbursements and personnel;
(c)   21 Regional Managers, responsible for Regional Offices, which
promote, select, appraise and supervise projects in their
jurisdiction; these are coordinated by a Regional Coordination
Manager.



- 19 -
(d)   Three support managers, for:
(i)   Legal Affairs, for legal counsel of Management;
(ii)  Internal Control, which ensures compliance with
appropriate procedures and accountability through regular
audits and ad hoc enquiries; and
(iii)  Planning and Management Information Systems, in
charge of information network and institutional
development; and
(e)   One Special Advisor on External Technical Assistance and
Financing, in charge of liaison with multilateral and bilateral
agencies.
5.23. FONCODES is presently building the capacity of its Regional Offices
and intends to grant them significant autonomy in promoting technical
assisiance, appraisal, selection and supervision of community-based projects.
At present 70 percent of all project proposals are appraised at regional offices,
which can direcdy approve projects costing up to US$10,000 equivalent. The
project would support this decentralization effort, through quality assurance
mechanismns, such as standards setting, training and regular monitoring and
control. At present, neither Tacna nor Apurimac have a regional office, due to
a low demand for community-based projects. This is a cause of concern in the
case of Apurimac, which is an area with a high prevalence of poverty and
extreme poverty. The project would help develop the Apurimac Regional Office
to promote projects and provide technical assistance to communities wishing to
propose projects.
5.24. The staff is dedicated and of good quality, but overworked. Vehicles
and equipment are, at present, insufficient for the number of projects which will
need to be appraised and supervised. Research and development was not
adequately supported and the coordination between appraisal and supervision
could be improved. The project would assist FONCODES in implementing an
institutional development plan, developed with the technical assistance of IDB,
which would address the identified deficiencies (para 6.3.b). The institutional
development plan is available in the Project files.
5.25. As a result of project preparation, FONCODES has created a research
and evaluation function to study needs, develop innovative community-based
project concepts, evaluate expenence and incorporate lessons learned into new
community-based project design and administrative procedures. The project
would support the institutional development of FONCODES, including the
rehabilitation of facilities, purchase of vehicles and equipment, technical
assistance, studies and training. It would improve the integration between
project appraisal and supervision. It would also promote a post community
project evaluation, to evaluate the impact on beneficiaries.



- 20 -
Project Portfolio
5.26. FONCODES finances community-based projects in the following areas:
(a)   Social Assistance, including projects in: (i) health and nutrition,
such as primary health care, disease prevention, family planning,
medical supplies, and (ii) education, such as pre-schooling,
school supplies, school libraries, literacy campaigns and training
of unemployed workers;
(b)   Social Infrastructure, including water treatment and supply,
sewerage, health post rehabilitation and medical equipments,
community kitchens, school rehabilitation and equipment, and
rehabilitation of sports and community centers;
(c)   Economic Infrastructure, including economically viable projects
with a significant social impact such as rehabilitation of small
roads and sidewalks, irrigation systems, terracing, land
rehabilitation and erosion control, reforestation, electricity
supply, and markets; projects in categories (a) to (c) above are
financed through grants provried by FONCODES to community-
based entities; and
(d)   Income and employment generation projects for small-scale
farmers, fishermen and micro-enterprises; these projects are
implemented through loans, at market rates, provided by
intermediaries which administer revolving funds for this purpose
received from FONCODES.
5.27. At the start, FONCODES supported a wide and open portfolio of
projects, without imposing any priorities, to generate community demand and
creativity. At the present stage, when demand vastly out-paces the availability
of funds, FONCODES intends to prioritize those types of projects which would
contribute more to poverty alleviation, and would focus its activities into the
poorest areas. The project would add this priority ranldng to the appraisal
criteria (para 8.1.b.i.)
5.28. As described above (para 5.18), some community-based projects would
not be sustainable alone. They would need to be complemented by additional
components or by other associated community-based projects: rehabilitation of
schools would need to be complemented with fiuniture, school books, and
assurance that a teacher is available; health nosts would require that a source
of clean water, basic medical equipment and supplies, exist and that health
personnel would be available at least twice or three times a week; community
kitchens would need to have a source of clean water; school breakfasts and
medical suipply projects would require some assurance of continuity. The
project would promote these complementary inputs and projects (para 6.38).
5.29. Again, some projects, such as water and power supply, and irrigation,
would not be sustainable without proper organization and training of the user
community. Such training and organizational development would be covered
by adding specific components to medium sized projects, or by organizing



- 21 -
specific projects to cover training and organizational needs of a number of
similar small projects. For water and sewerage projects, as well as for irrigation
projects, FONCODES would promote the creation, training and support of
cc.mmunlity-based resource management committee, which would be
responsible for maintenance and minor repairs and would ensure the collection
of tariffs. FONCODES would also contract out the preparation and distribution
of the relevant infrastructure maintenance manuals.
Financing
5.30. Until now, FONCODES has been almost solely financed by the Public
Treasury. In 1992 and 1993, it was granted US$87 million and US$214.9
million equivalent, respectively, of which 97 percent came from the Treasury.
5.31. FONCODES provides financial support to organized communities for
project preparation, labor and materials and for the services of an
adviser/inspector who can ensure the technical quality of the community project.
Financing is provided through:
(a)   Grants to community organizations carrying  out social
assistance, rehabilitating social and economic infrastructure; and
(b)   Transfer of Funds to Fiduciaries, such as the Savings and
Loans (Cajas Municipales) and NGOs, which in turn lend such
funds at standard market rates to small-scale farmers, fishermen
and micro-enterprises.
5.32. At present, revolving funds constitute a mere 6 percent of FONCODES'
investments. FONCODES would only support this type of project temporarily,
in cases of market failure, until the government sets an overall policy on credit
to small and medium enterprises. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
this type of project would not constitute. at any time. more than 10 percent of
total grants or loans aproved by FONCODES (para 8.2.c.)
5.33. FONCODES' initial portfolio included loan guarantees for financial
institutions making loans to small-scale farmers, fishermen and micro-
enterprises, but no proposal was ever approved. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that this type of project would not be eligible for FONCODES
funding (paM 8.2.c.)
5.34. Until now, the overall portfolio of FONCODES shows that projects have
been small and community-based, costing an average of US$30,000 equivalent.
To achieve this result FONCODES has required that: (a) project execution time
should not exceed one year; (b) basic salaries should not exceed the minimum
wage for an unsldlled civil worker; (c) labor costs must account for at least 30
percent of the budget; and that (d) average costs per unit should not exceed the
average unit costs of such projects in the region or municipality.



- 22 -
5.35. Cost Sharing. During the emergency phase of poverty alleviation,
communities have not been asked to share the costs of projects. In some cases,
they have not been asked to pay for the costs of providing the services
associated with the project (e.g. water and power supply).   However, a
preliminary review of approved community-based projects shows that the
majority of them already include substantial community contributions, in the
form of management costs, land, materials, complementary inputs, and even
volunteer work. These contributions were estimated to vary from an average
of 6 percent of total costs in social assistance projects, to 19 percent in some
social infrastructure projects, such as the rehabilitation of schools. Also, power
and water supply infrastructures is typically transferred to municipalities at the
time of project completion, and the municipalities collect and administer user
fees.
5.36. The Project would require community contributions for all projects
approved by FONCODES, which would be on average 10 percent of project
capital-costs, adjusted to the type of project, and poverty levels. Such cost-
sharing scheme and maintenance arrangements would improve community
ownership and project sustainability (para 6.36). In addition, for certain types
of projects, such as irrigation, water and power supply, communities would be
required to organize to collect charges, to cover the recurrent costs, and the
municipality or the relevant ministry would ensure maintenance.
Community-based Project Cycle
5.37. FONCODES' project cycle includes targeting, identification and
promotion, appraisal and selection, contracting and disbursements, supervision
and ex-post evaluation.
5.38. Thrgeting. Although community-based projects are demand-driven, and
originate in communities, FONCODES establishes budgetary and activity targets
on the basis of poverty maps. Far from an attempt to plan projects, the targets
are a reference for establishing priorities among the vast needs of the Peruvian
poor. The objective is to ensure that between regions, and within each region,
the more developed groups do not use most of the resources, and to avoid that
the poorest, who may be less able to generate good projects, remain uncovered.
5.39. Targeting is based on poverty maps, constructed with a poverty index
based on income per capita and infant mortality rates. For each fiscal year,
tentative budgetary targets are established for each area, and the allocation is
then fine-tuned by the Board for conditions of special hardship, such as living
under emergency security conditions. The final allocation is confirmed by a
task-force which includes the Central Reserve Bank (BCR), the National
Institute for Statistics and Informatics (INEI), the Social Policy Workshop
(TPS), the Nutrition Research Institute (IN), FONCODES and UNICEF.
Management monitors the demand for community-based projects per area, on
a monthly basis, and the Regional Offices, which are closer to community
needs, take the leading role in promoting and supporting project preparation in



- 23 -
those areas where need is well recognized but demand is below what could be
expected. The present system has so far produced a fair distribution of funds.
5.40. Community project identification and promotion are carried out by
FONCODES regional office staff or by individual external promoters, who can
be any person or body, private or public, willing to (a) inform and organize the
population to present a community-based project to FONCODES, and (b) assist
a community in project preparation.
5.41. FONCODES and other promoters meet with formal and informal
community leaders, municipal authorities and NGOs, to describe: (a)
opportunities offered by FONCODES; (b) major eligibility requirements; and
(c) steps to prepare a project proposal.  FONCODES also uses other
dissemination techniques, such as the distribution of written materials, and the
production of radio programs. Special promotion efforts are made in certain
areas, where the poverty mapping identifies populations living in extreme
poverty and lacking the capacity to generate and prepare projects. In these
cases, FONCODES or an intermediary, such as an NGO, undertake spezial
promotion efforts and assist the community in preparing a project proposal.
5.42. Project promoters work on their own initiative, after learning about the
opportunities created by FONCODES. For approved projects, FONCODES can
finance project preparation costs retroactively, including the promoters' fees, up
to a maximum of 5 percent of total project costs.
5.43. Community organization. To submit a project, communities organize
themselves and nominate executing committees, the nucleos ejecutores, which
receive and manage the respective FONCODES grant, and are responsible for
project implementation. Where communities are extremely poor and lack the
capacity to independently present a project proposal, NGOs, the Catholic
Church or municipal governments participate as promoters and provide technical
assistance. Depending on the nature of the program, they may also enter into
a management contract with the community.
5.44. Appraisal and selection. FONCODES specialists, in the Programs and
Projects Division or in the Regional Offices, are responsible for appraising the
community project proposals. Alternatively, appraisals are done by external
evaluators contracted by FONCODES for this purpose, typically through the
recommendation of the College of Engineers.  There is still a lack of
FONCODES evaluators for some project categores such as loans for small-scale
farmers and micro-entrepreneurs.
5.45. Appraisal is based on standard eligibility and appraisal criteria, which are
described in the Operational Manual, and typically include:
(a)   Eligibility:
(i)   Rural or pen-urban area, in extreme poverty or under
emergency rule;



- 24 -
(ii)   Labor-intensive, with a focus on local unskilled workers;
(iii)  Simple design, rapid execution time;
(iv)  Contribution to basic social service provision;
(v)   Comwunity participation in project development and
maintenance;
(vi)  Use of local inputs; and
(vii)  Costs compatible with estimated local market costs;
(b)   Appraisal:
(i)   Poverty alleviation potential;
(ii)   Project quality;
(iii)  Costs and efficiency;
(iv)  Estimated rate of return, when relevant;
(v)   Poverty; estimated income of beneficiaries;
(vi)  Sustainability; and
(vii)  Managing capacity of the executing committee.
5.46. In the sample of projects reviewed during project preparation and
appraisal, Bank staff and consultants found that appraisals had been conducted
professionally and with good judgment. In addition, the IDB is conducting an
independent in-depth review of a random sample of 70 projects financed by
FONCODES, and the report of the evaluation will be available to the Bank
before negotiations.
5.47. As described above, cost-sharing has not been a requirement and
sustainability arrangements have sometimes been overlooked (paras. 5.18, 5.28-
29, 5.35-36). The Project would require that these be included among the
eligibility and appraisal criteria (para 6.38).
5.48. Until now, FONCODES has not made systematic environmental impact
evaluations of community-based projects. The Project would require such
evaluations for certain types of projects (para 6.39). For this, FONCODES is
developing summary environmental impact guidelines, with the technical
assistance of the IDB.
5.49. The FONCODES Selection Committee includes the General Manager,
the three line managers and the legal counsei. It approves the community-based
projects to be financed, on the basis of a summary staff appraisal report.
Regional Office Managers can directly approve small projects (up to US$10,000
equivalent), after consulting with the General Manager. The Board ratifies
decisions on large projects, such as those estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 equivalent.
5.50. Project appraisal is supported by a management information system
which standardizes cost estimates and unit-cost reviews. The system is based on
a data base of project input costs (wages, construction materials, equipment and
professional services), calculated for six geographical areas. The data base is
updated monthly, on the basis of prices quoted in the Construction Price



- 25 -
Review, which is published monthly in Peru. The system also has a Unit-Price
Analysis Component, based on criteria and standards published by the Peruvian
Chamber of Construction and Public Works), which includes standards for the
commonly requested FONCODES projects such as irrigation, electricity supply,
and roads. The unit-cost system was reviewed at appraisal and considered to
be satisfactory, transparent, well maintained, and to reflect real prices in the
Peruvian market. However, the system has been introduced only recently and
has been used for only 50 percent of the projects. The projects processed by
external evaluators are not presently subject to this control. The system is in
rapid expansion, and the project would ensure that all community-based projects
are subject to the same type of standard cost analysis.
5.51. Contracting and Disbursements. Once a community-based project is
approved, FONCODES signs a sub-project agreement with the executing
committee which, in turn, executes the project by force account or by hiring a
private contractor, an NGO or a municipality. In addition the executing
committee signs an agreement with an inspector acceptable to FONCODES.
The inspector is responsible for directly controlling the works or project
execution and for reporting to the FONCODES supervisor on all technical,
administrative and accounting issues. He is paid by the executing committee,
out of the proceeds of the FONCODES grant. Funds are deposited in a bank
account and controlled jointly by the inspector and the executing committee
treasurer.
5.52. Some contracts need to be improved, namely those that pertain to
financial intermediaries which administer funds as fiduciaries for credit to small-
scale farmers and entrepreneurs (para. 5.10). The latter would need to clarify
the responsibility of the intermediary institution regarding assumption of credit
risk, refunding FONCODES for the administered funds, coverage of operation
costs and inclusion of standardized credit conditions.  At negoQian
FONCODES presented reviewed model contracts in which these issues were
satisfactorily addressed (8.l.c).
5.53. Following the contract, FONCODES disburses about 60 percent of the
expected costs of the project to a special account opened by the executing
committee for the community project. Further disbursements are authorized by
the regional FONCODES project supervisor, based on project progress or
completion.
5.54. The executing committee normally contracts the works directly with local
skilled and non-skilled workers. For works or services of some complexity, the
executing committees will typically contract with local private enterprises or
NGOs.
5.55. Given the nature and small size of community-based projects,
FONCODES has not systematically imposed any procurement rules upon the
executing committees. The Project would require that Bank guidelines for
procurement of goods and services be used in all community-based projects



- 26 -
funded by FONCODES, and in the institutional development of FONCODES
(paras 6.13-24)
5.56. Project supervision and control are carried out by the concerned
division in FONCODES. Supervision is done directly by FONCODES regional
staff, or is contracted to intermediaries, such as the College of Engineers, with
clear terms of reference. Supervisors: (a) monitor project execution; (b)
authorize disbursements; (c) ensure compliance with contract covenants
concerning executing committees, the contracts and suppliers; (d) verify
community participation and arrangements for maintenance and project
sustainability; and (e) sign the project completion report, check accounts and set
the final financial balance.
5.57. FONCODES has had difficulty in ensuring adequate project supervision
of the large number of community-based projects it has approved. At the
beginning, only about 20 percent of the community-based projects were subject
to adequate supervision. This resulted from shortages in personnel, vehicles and
lack of access to an automated momtoring and control system which are now
being resolved. The proportion is presently 85 percent and can be expected to
reach 100 percent in the next several months. The Project would contribute to
improving the intensity and specialization of supervision, through the
implementation of the FONCODES' institutional development plan, which has
been developed with the assistance of the IDB (para 5.24, 6.3.b),
5.58. Project supervision is supported by a management information system
which keeps track of physical, social and financial performance. The system
has the key elements needed for good management and was able to produce, at
short notice, all management reports required by project preparation and
appraisal. The existing system is functioning well and is particularly suited for
supervising infrastructure and engineering projects. However, it is not as well
suited for monitoring social assistance and income and employment generation
projects. The system is presently being upgraded with the technical assistance
of the 1DB.
5.59. Accounts and Audits. FONCODES' accounting systems follow the
usual and customary model of public accounting but have, until recently, been
mostly implemented by hand. The system is presently being automated, as part
of the development of the management information system, under the technical
assistance of the IDB.
5.60. FONCODES is subject to regular audits by the Accountant General. In
addition, it has ordered a private firm to conduct an audit of its activities and
accounts, as well as of a sample of 100 community-based projects.
5.61. hx-post evaluation of community-based project impact has not, until
now, been made on a regular basis.  As part of Project preparation,
FONCODES has created a new research and evaluation unit which will
coordinate community-based project evaluations. The project would include an
ongoing evaluation of a sample of completed projects, which would be



- 27 -
contracted to an independent organization, such as an university or a specialized
research-oriented NGO, consisting of a mix of traditional economic evaluation
and beneficiary assessment (para 6.25.g).
5.62. Operational Manual. The organization and functions of FONCODES
are described in an Operational Manual and a Users' Guide, which include a
main section describing the general operation of the Fund, and specific sections
which cover each project category, and the most frequently sought project types.
Both the Manual and Guide are still evolving, as is the whole organization.
They were reviewed by Bank's staff and consultants, during preparation and
appraisal, and found to be adequate for the present development stage of
FONCODES. They still have some inconsistencies, leaving evaluators and
supervisors with excessive discretion. These deficiencies are being addressed
under technical assistance of both the Bank and the IDB. Copies of both are
available in the Project files.
5.63. In addition to the above weaknesses, some Bank concerns, including
prioritizing (para 5.27), cost-sharing (para S.35, 5.47), sustainability (para 5.18,
5.28-29), and environmental appraisal (para 5.48), are inadequately covered in
the manual. At negotiations, FONCODES Mresented a revised version of the
Operational Manual, which the Bank found to be satisfactory (ra 8.4.b).
Inter-institutional Coordination
5.64. FONCODES' mandate and activities potentially overlap with those of
other government agencies, as described above (para. 3.21). To avoid
duplication, inefficient use of resources and inter-institutional conflict,
FONCODES coordinates its policies and activities with those of other social
sector ministries and government agencies, through a Commission which has
been formed by the National Institute of Education Infrastructure (INFES), the
National Institute of Development (INADE), the National Office of Popular
Cooperation (COOPOP), and the Departmental Cooperation for the
Development of Lima and Callao (CORDE LIMA and CORDE CALLAO).
The coordination has until now been generally satisfactory.  The roles,
interfaces and articulation between these institutions is described at length by the
Ministry of Economy and Finance in the "Institutions which Develop Poverty
Alleviation Programs" report, which is part of the Project files.
5.65. Certain community-based projects, such as the rehabilitation of schools
and health posts lead to significant additional recurrent costs in personnel,
supplies and maintenance. In addition, community-based projects such as new
roads, water, sanitation and power supply can have significant impact on the
existing networks. In both cases, community project proposals must include an
approval letter from the relevant line ministry or agency, to ensure that they fit
into the plans of the relevant Ministry, regional or municipal governments.
5.66. For a time, there was a certain degree of overlap between FONCODES
and another Government fund - National Housing Fund (FONAVI) under
which the Ministry of the Presidency finances investments in urban



- 28 -
infrastructure. FONAVI, through its Program of Supervised Credits, makes
loans to community-based organizations for urban infrastructure improvements
in a manner similar to that of FONCODES, but requires significant cost-
sharing. PONAVI coordinates with FONCODES and to avoid duplication and
overlap they have agreed that FONAVI would operate in major cities,
supporting large infrastructure projects, such as roads, water, sanitation and
power supply, while FONCODES would target its resources to rural areas and
in smaller, isolated communities, and give priority to small social assistance and
rehabilitation of social infrastructure.
5.67. In some cases, central and local government agencies have done more
than just coordinate with FONCODES, and have become directly involved in
the preparaton or execution of community-based projects. Although community
organizations typically identify, propose and manage projects, several public
corporations have been involved in promoting projects, and in assisting
communities in project preparation and supervision. In fact, different Ministries
have been involved, in some capacity, in about 13 percent of the projects (e.g.
cholera control in an emergency area, drug and other supplies for health posts),
and local governments have participated, in some capacity, in 38 percent of the
projects.
VI. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
6.1. The Project's objectives are to: (a) sustain the GOP poverty alleviation
efforts, (b) mitigate the social costs of maco-economic adjustment, and (c)
strengthen the institutional capacity of FONCODES. Specifically, the Project
would support the overall operation of FONCODES for the penod 1994 to
1996.
6.2   The Project would contribute to poverty alleviation by supporting,
through FONCODES, a range of projects with a strong focus on education,
health and nutrition, and other areas that would assist the poor rural and urban
populations, and by promoting the efficiency and effectiveness of FONCODES.
The community-based projects would (a) generate employment and improve
access to social services, (b) support social development, (c) complement other
long-term projects in health and education, with effective mechanisms to reach
the poor in the short run, and (d) maximize support from other potential donors.
Description
6.3. The Project, with a total cost of US$495 million, would have two
components:
(a)   Support to FONCODES community-based projects, with a
total cost of US$468.5 million (95 percent). This component



- 29 -
would finance, through the Fund, a range of community-based,
labor-intensive projects, with a strong focus on health and
nutrition, education and on other areas that could assist poor
rural and urban populati-ns.   From  FONCODES' past
experience, it is estimated that the Loan would support
community-based projects in all four FONCODES project types:
(i)   Social Assistance  (14 percent), including: health
promotion and disease prevention campaigns, primary
health care and family planning services, medical
supplies, nutritional supplements, pre-schooling, literacy
campaigns, institutional development of community-based
organizations, school libraries and materials, and
retraining of unemployed workers;
(ii)   Social Infrastructure (37 percent), including: water
treatment and supply, sewage collection and treatment,
environmental sanitation, health post rehabilitation and
equipment, school rehabilitation and equipment,
community kitchen construction or rehabilitation and
equipment, and sports and community center construction
and equipment;
(iii) Economic Infrastructure (33 percent), including:
rehabilitation, extension and construction of wells and
irrigation systems, land rehabilitation and reforestation,
road and sidewalk rehabilitation, marketing infrastructure,
and electricity supply; and
(iv)  Credits to small-scale farmers and entrepreneurs for
income and employment generation (9 percent), including
support and capacity building to micro-enterprises, small-
scale fisheries, agriculture inputs and small-scale
processing firms .
(b)   Institutional Development of FONCODES, with a total cost of
US$26.5 million (5 percent). This component would finance:
(i)   works, such as the rehabilitation and refurbishing of
FONCODES' offices;
(ii)  goods, including vehicles, communications and computing
equipment; and
(iii)  services, including training of FONCODES staff in
project management, technical assistance for project
appraisal and supervision, poverty studies, ex post
evaluations of community-based projects funded by
FONCODES, audits of FONCODES and community-
based projects, and support to enity-bed project
preparation and implementation.



- 30 -
Lending and Implementation
6.4. The proceeds of the Loan (US$100 million equivalent) would be lent to
the Republic of Peru, which would pass them on as a grant to FONCODES,
which would, in tum, use the Loan in conjunction with other funds from the
National treasury and other international donors and credit agencies to finance
community-based projects and to support its institutional development.
Community projects would be supported in the form of:
(a)   Grants awarded to community organizations, NGOs or public
agencies, which would contract works and supervise project execution
-ith the assistance of an approved inspector; and
(b)   Transfer of Funds to intermediary financial institutions, acting
as fiduciaries, which in turn would lenid funds at standard market rates
to support investments in small-scale enterprises.
6.5.  As a condition of loan effectiveness. a SubsidiAgreement for making
funds available by the Borrower to FONCODES. on terms acceptable to the
Bank. would be signed (para 8.4.a)
6.6. The Project would be implemented over a period of about four years.
FONCODES would be the implementing agency. The structure and operational
procedures of FONCODES, including criteria and procedures for project
identification, preparation, appraisal, and implementation of community-based
projects, were reviewed by the Bank and are generally satisfactory, with the
exception of the issues mentioned in paragraph 5.63. FONCODES current
management is satisfactory to the Bank. At negotiations. assurances were
obtained that: (a) FONOCODES would maintain an Executive Direto. General
Mana=e. and Line Managers with eprncand qualifications aQccptble to
the Bank (paM 8.2.a): and (b! any substantial change in the Operational Manual
or User's Guide would be require prior Bank approval (para 8.2.b).
Costs and Financing Plan
6.7.  The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, expressed in July 1993
prices, is estimated at US$495 million equivalent. The estimated foreign
exchange costs (US$79 million) represent 16 percent of the total project costs.
The Bank would finance 25 percent of foreign exchange costs and also 25
percent of local costs. The financing of local costs under the project is a
consequence of: (a) the foreign exchange component of total costs is only 16
percent, and (b) the project is targeted to areas of the country where extreme
poverty is high. A breakdown of project costs is shown in Annex 5 and is
summarized below. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 6.



- 31 -
6.8.  Since the project is essentially a financial intermediary type of operation,
physical targets depend on community-based projects to be presented and no
contingencies have been provided. Any increase in the average community-
based project amounts would be reflected in a reduced number of projects
executed.
6.9.  The cost estimates and average size of community-based projects
(US$30,000 equivalent) reflect a consensus of sector specialists and the
experience accumulated by FONCODES, based on its experience in financing
of projects in 1992-1993 and the projected average costs and number of projects
for 1994-1995. The project is expected to finance about 16,500 community-
based projects over three years, i.e. about 5,500 community projects a year,
which seems realistic when compared with an average of 6,000 projects per year
for 1992 and 1993.  The costs of the institutional development component,
which would finance rehabilitation works in FONCODES offices, studies, audits
and evaluations, technical assistance, training and administrative systems, are
based on the average cost of technical assistance provided by UN agencies and
on the market costs of consultants and training services in Peru.
6.10. The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent would represent
about 20 percent of total project cost. Local beneficiaries, including ultimate
beneficiaries, municipalities, NGOs and other entities, would contribute US$42
million equivalent (about 9 percent of total project costs). The Borrower's
contribution would be US$200 million equivalent and would partly finance
FONCODES' operating costs. This amount seems realistic when compared with
the Government's past contribution to FONCODES, of over US$300 million
equivalent in 1992 and 1993.
PERU: Social Development and Compensation Fund Project.
Estimated Costs (USS million)
Conwnents        ~Local   Foreign    Total    Percent
Community-based Projects
Social assistance                   60       11       71       14.3
Social infrastructure              158       28       186      37.6
Economic infrastructure            140.5    24        164.5    33.2
Income/Employment Generation        40       7        47        9.5
Sub-total                          398.5      70      468.5    94.6   l
Institutional Development of FONCODES
Rehabilitation Works                 1.5     0         1.5      0.4
Equipment and vehicles              2        4         6        1.2
Technical assistanee                7        3         10       2.0
Operating costs                     7        2         9        1.8
Sub-total                            17.5     9        26.5      5.4
Total Costs                         416       79       495      100.0
Net of taxes and duties



- 32 -
6.11. The project will receive parallel financing from the IDB and the
Government of Germany (KfW). The IDB has indicated that it would contribute
US$100 million for the project, to finance social and economic infrastructure
community-based projects. Other donors, including KfW, would support the
Project with another US$53 million equivalent, to finance the whole range of
FONCODES projects in a pre-determined area, which is likely to be the Inca
Region. FONCODES would propose to the lenders which projects would be
financed by each institution. Joint supervision (para 6.26) would ensure inter-
lender coordination.
PERU: Social Development and Compensation Fund Project. Financing Plan. US$ million
Finaning Plan               Loc     |   Foreign         T Total 
Government of Peru          200            0            200
Beneficiaries                42            0             42
World Bank                   80           20            100
Inter-American               sO           20            100
Development Bank
Other Donors (ncluding KfW)  14           39             53
Total                       416           79            495
6.12. The Loan would retroactively finance community-based project
expenditures incurred after August 1, 1993, provided they were eligible under
the terms and conditions set in the loan agreement, up to a maximum of 10
percent of the Loan.
Procurement
6.13. Procurement of works, goods, and services, as well as the contracting
of consultants with Bank funds would be carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines. A recent review by the Bank of the procurement procedures
followed by both the public and prvate sector in Peru show that these are
generally acceptable. The procurement procedures followed by the public sector
are largely based upon competition, with only minor exceptions of direct
contracting which are compatible with Bank guidelines.
6.14. Very little procurement would be carried out by FONCODES directly.
This would be limited to some rehabilitation of FONCODES offices and their
respective equipment. Most procurement would be done by community
executing committees, or intermediaries such as NGOs, municipalities or
ministries, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.



- 33 -
6.15. To facilitate FONCODES' administrative procedures, the IDB, KfW and
the Bank would enter into an agreement to adopt common procurement
procedures in this project.
PERU: Social Development and Compensation Fund
Procurement Methods by Category. US$ million
Category                Procurement Method     ANFB   |  Total
ICR     LCB      Other
Communty-Based Projects
Works                            0.00     17.87    81.41'  244.21   343.50
(0.00)   (12.51)  (56.99)          (69.5)
Goods and Services               0.00     4.89    22.26a   72.86    100.00
(0.00)   (3.42)   (15.58)          (19.00)
Consultants                      0.00     1.26     5.74    18.00    25.00
(0.00)   (1.26)   (5.74)            (7.00)
Total                            0.00     24.02    109.41   335.07   468.50
(0.00)   (17.19)  (78.31)          (95.50)
Instfuonal Development of
FONCODES
Rehabilitation Works             0.00      0.27     1.23'            1.50
(0.00)    (0.14)  (0.62)            (.75)
Goods and Services               0.00     0.23     1.03a    4.75     6.00
(0.00)   (0.14)   (0.62)            (.75)
Consultants                      0.00     0.54     2.46    7.00      10.00
(0.00)   (0.54)   (2.46)            (3.00)
Operating Costs                  0.00     0.00     0.00    9.00      9.00
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)             (0)
Total                            0.00     1.04     4.72    20.75    26.50
(0.00)   (0.81)   (3.69)            (4.50)
TOTAL                            0.00     25.05    114.13  355.82   495.00
(0.00)   (18.00)  (82.00)          (100.00)
4ote: Figures in parenheses are the respective amounts Inaced by the Bank loan
' Local Shopping or Direct Contracting. b Not Bank Financed.
6.16. Procurement of Works would be as follows:
(a)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB), if any, for contracts
esfimated to cost US$3,000,000 equivalent or more;



- 34 -
(b)   Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), for contracts estimated to cost
from US$250,000 to US$3,000,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate amount of US$18,300,000 equivalent;
(c)   Local Shopping (LS), requiring at least three quotations, for
contracts estimated to cost Ifrom US$35,000 to US$250,000
equivalent each, up to an estimated aggregate of US$47,000,000
equivalent; and
(d)   Direct Contracting (DC) for small works not exceeding
US$35,000 each, in remote locations (when shopping is not
possible) either with the only available or interested contractor,
or with the community as a contractor (provided that the
community has the legal capacity to enter into contracts or
agreements), on a one contract per community basis. These
measures would not be jointly applicable with direct purchasing
of equipment and/or materials as under 6. 19.d below, and up to
an aggregate amount of US$35,000,000 equivalent.
6.17. Locial shopping and direct contracting are justified because of the small
scale of most community-based projects which demand little, if any, heavy
equipment. Most works would be carried out in scattered places, where it is
unlikely that large domestic contractors would be interested in bidding for civil
works. A system of standard regional unit prices would guide the selection of
contracts under direct contracting.
6.18. No International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is expected, because of the
small size and decentralized nature of FONCODES community-based projects.
However, ICB would be required for any contract exceeding US$3,000,000
equivalent.
6.19. Procurement of Goods and Services. The types of goods to be procured
under the project mainly consist of basic construction materials, equipment and
supplies for health posts and schools, medical supplies, school books, small
administrative systems, vehicles, computing systems and other equipment for
FONCODES. The types of services to be procured under the project are
disease prevention campaigns, family planning, primary health care, literacy
courses, studies, audits, evaluations, management services and training. Goods
and services would be procured as follows:
(a)   ICB, if any, for contracts estimated to cost US$250,000
equivalent or more;
(b)   LCB for contracts estimated to cost from  US$50,000 to
US$250,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
US$5,000,000 equivalent;
(c)   LS with at least three quotations, for contracts estimated to cost
from US$5,000 to US$50,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate amount of US$16,000,000 equivalent; and
(d)   Direct contracting for community-based projects in remote
locations, when shopping is not possible, for (i) small items of
equipment each costing up to US$5,000 equivalent; and (ii)



- 35 -
construction materials costing up to US$15,000 equivalent,
restricted to one contract of each kind per project and not jointly
applicable with direct contracting for works as under 6.16.d.
above, up to an aggregate amount of US$7,000,000 equivalent.
6.20. Consultants would be selected and contracted in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants. All contracts with individual consultants,
and those with consulting firms costing more than US$100,000 equivalent,
would require the Bank's prior review. Any taxes paid by consultants would
be excluded from Bank financing.
6.21. The Bank will undertake a prior review of:
(a)   Contracts for works exceeding US$150,000 equivalent;
(b)   Contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; and
(c)   The first contract for each kind, per year, regardless of the
amount involved.
6.22. Based on FONCODES' experience in financing of projects in 1992-1993
and the projected average costs and number of projects for 1994-1996, it is
estimated that the Bank will review about 65 contracts per year (4 percent of
Bank-financed projects). Other contracts would be reviewed a postenoni, on a
sample basis, which is acceptable given the nature of the project.
6.23. Starting July 1, 1994, FONCODES would review the standard regional
unit-prices for works and goods, twice a year, no later than January 1 and June
1, and promptly change such prices, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, if the review so recommends.
6.24 FONCODES would retain the services of a procurement auditor
satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare procurement audits, at least every six
months, on the basis of appropriate samples of procurement documentation.
The audit reports would be sent to the Bank not later that two months after their
completion date (para 8.2.e).
Supervision and Reporting
6.25. Starting on September 1, 1994, FONCODES would submit to the Bank
semi-annual reports, on March 1 and September 1, comparing achievements
with the set of agreed performance indicators (Annex 7). These reports would
include information on:
(a)   community-based projects presented, appraised, in execution,
completed and evaluated, including beneficiaries, employment
generated, amounts committed and executed, costs per
beneficiary and generated workdays;
(b)   list and summary reports of studies, technical assistance
summaries; outlines of courses and numbers of staff trained, and
management systems installed;



- 36 -
(c)   full documentation on any project costing over US$250,000
equivalent, regardless of the source of financing.
(d)   FONCODES costs and financing;
(e)   changes in FONCODES staffing and structure;
(f)   supervision visits; and
(g)   ongoing ex-post evaluation of a sample of completed projects,
which would be contracted to an independent organization, such
as an university or a specialized research-oriented NGO, and
consist of a mix of traditional economic evaluation and
beneficiary assessment.   At negotiations, assurances were
Qbtained that FONCODES would retain the services of an
independent organization. under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank and not later than June 30, 1994, for purposes of
carrying out evaluations of community-based projects which have
been executed (para 8.2.-f
6.26. The Project would require about 24 staff-weeks of supervision per year,
including about 13 weeks in the field. The supervision team would include the
Task Manager and consultants with experience in the operation of similar social
investment funds in Latin America. Their main areas of expertise would be
operations, health and nutrition, education, rural development, infrastructure
engineering, and finance. The Bank has collaborated with other multilateral and
bilateral agencies, such as IDB, GTZ and KfW while preparing and appraising
the project and would continue to do so during supervision.
Disbursements and Documentation of Expenditures
6.27. The proposed Loan would be disbursed over a period of four years, to
be completed by March 31, 1997. The final date for presentation of requests
for approval or authorization to disburse in respect of community-based projects
would be September 30, 1996. The project Closing Date would be June 30,
1997, three months after the completion date.
PERU: Social Development and Compensation Fund Project
Etimated Schedule of Disbursements, USS million
Bank         Semester        Disburs.   Cwnmd.  Dlsburs.    Lon
Fiscal        Ending          during    Amount   as % of   Balance
Year                        Semester             Total
FY94          30-Jun-94         25        25        25       75
FY95          31-Dec-94         20        45       45        55
FY95          30-Jun-95         20        65       65        35
FY96          31-Dec-95         15        80        80       20
FY96          30-Jun-96         10        90        90       10
FY97          31-Dec-96          5        95        95        S
FY97          30-Jun-97          5        100      100        0



- 37 -
6.28. Disbursements are expected to occur faster than is usual for LAC
projects, but are consistent with the previous experience of FONCODES and
with other social investment funds in Latin America. Disbursements are
expected to occur as follows:
6.29. Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures (Annex 6):
(a)   Community-based projects, 70 percent of expenditures made in
works and goods, and 100 percent of expenditures made for
technical assistance, for eligible projects, up to an aggregate
amount of US$95 million equivalent;
(b)  Institutional Development of FONCODES:
(i)   works: 50 percent of local expenditures, up to an
aggregate of US$750,000 equivalent;
(ii)  equipment: 50 percent of local and 100 percent of foreign
eligible expenditures, up to an aggregate of US$750,000
equivalent;
(iii)  technical assistance, including consultants, studies, audits,
and training: 100 percent of eligible expenditures, up to
an aggregate of US$3,000,000 equivalent; and
6.30. At negotiations, it was agreed that retroactive financing of up to US$10
million would be permitted for eligible expenditures incurred since August 1,
1993. Funds would be used for financing a backlog of eligible community-
based projects approved by FONCODES, in line with the eligibility and
appraisal criteria acceptable to the Bank.
6.31. Withdrawal applications with a contract value of US$250,000 equivalent
or more for works, US$150,000 equivalent or more for goods, US$100,000
equivalent or more for services with consultant firms, and aU individual
consultant contracts would be supported by full documentation and the rest
would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs), for which
supporting documents would be maintained by FONCODES and would be made
available for review by the Bank.
6.32. A Special Account would be opened in a commercial bank satisfactory
to the Bank, with an initial deposit of US$10 million equivalent. This would
correspond to about three months of expenditures required under the Project.
FONCODES would forward the Bank the documentation necessary for
disbursement (SOEs or full documenta in), covering a number of projects or
contracts for services whose aggregate sum would be at least US$3 million.



- 38 -
Accounts and Audits
6.33. An independent audit firm audited FONCODES accounts and those of
a random sample of 100 community projects, for the period between January 1,
1992, and July 1, 1993. At negotiations, the Bank reviewed the audit report
and was satsfied that the accounts are in good order and follow generally
accepted accounting practices (pam S.1 .d.). Assurances were obtained that
FONCODES would adopt the reommendations of the audit reort management
letter.
6.34. Under the Project, private independent external auditors acceptable to the
Bank would annually audit FONCODES. No later than six months after the end
of its fiscal year, FONCODES would submit to the Bank certified copies of the
audit reports contqining the auditor's opinion on: (a) project accounts, including
SOEs; (b) whether procurement was carried out in accordance with agreed
guidelines; and (c) adequacy of internal controls to minimize the possibility of
misuse of funds or other improprieties.
6.35. Auditors would undertake special semi-annual audits of community-based
projects supported by FONCODES, on the basis of acceptable accounting norms
and procedures. Auditors would examine a sample of community projects,
review individual contracts, ascertain whether the terms of these contracts are
complied with, inspect progress of works, reconcile the physical progress with
financial expenses incurred, and state whether procurement guidelines are being
respected. The auditors would prepare quarterly reports for the Board of
FONCODES and for the Bank (to be submitted no later than two months after
each quarter), as well as an annual summary. For this, auditors would audit a
significant sample of projects, acceptable to the Bank.
Cost-sharing and Sustainability
6.36. Beneficiary communities would contribute with at least 9 percent of total
project costs, in cash, labor or materials, overheads and other inputs.
Furthermore, communities have to ensure that the project can be sustained after
completion, including maintenance and operation. Certain types of community-
based projects would have higher cost-sharing requirements than others,
depending on their relevance for extreme poverty alleviation. Based on
FONCODES' experience with projects it supported in 1992 and 1993, it is
estimated that communities would contribute to total project costs as follows:
(a)   Social assistance        5 percent
(b)   Social infrastructure    19 percent
(c)   Economic infrastructure    13 percent
6.37. Projects which provide credit to small-scale farmers, fishermen and
entrepreneurs charge market interest rates and therefore can be said to provide
full cost-recovery.



- 39 -
6.38. Community-based projects would need to be sustainable, alone or in
conjunction with other complementary projects: (a) school classes would need
to be complemented with furniture, school books, and ensure that a teacher is
available; (b) health posts would require that a source of clean water, basic
medical equipment and supplies be available, and that health personnel be on
duty at least twice or three times a week; (c) community kitchens would need
to have a source of clean water; school breakfasts and medical supply projects
would require some continuity; and (d) water and electricity supply, and
irrigation would require the establishment and training of a community-based
resource management committee, which would be responsible for maintenance
and minor repairs and would ensure the collection of charges. At negofaffins
the Bank confirmed that these requirements have been incorporated into the
Operaifonal Manual. as eligibility or appraisal criteria (para. 8.1 .b.ii-iW).
Enviromnental Aspects
6.39. Since community projects are mostly small (average $30,000) and limited
essentially to rehabilitation, they would not generate significant environmental
impacts. Some projects, such as those concerned with reforestation, erosion
control and small sanitary works, are expected to have a positive environmental
impact. In any case, a summary environmental appraisal would be mandatory
for certain projects, such as irrigation, which could have a potential negative
environmental impact (para 5.48). At negotiations the Bank confirmed that
summary environmental apraisal guidelines, acceptable to the Bank. have been
included in the Operational Manual, where relevant (para 8.1.b.v.)
Mid-Term Review
6.40. The GOP would conduct a mid-term review of progress in
implementation of the project, in which the Bank would participate. The review
would cover:
(a)   impact of community-based projects, both stated and unforeseen;
(b)   success in targeting of community-based projects to poorest
areas/populations in Peru, and recommendations for improvement
of targeting methodology;
(c)   efficiency of FONCODES in selecting, financing and supervising
community-based projects, considered globally as well as by
project category;
(d)   quality of the FONCODES portfolio, both between and among
project categories;
(e)   adequacy, transparency and fairness of procurement practices,
both within FONCODES and among community-based projects.
(f)   implementation of the Letter of Social Policy, including the role
of FONCODES in the implementation of the overall poverty
alleviation strategy.



- 40 -
6.41. At negotiations. assurancs were obtained that the Borrower would
undertake a Mid-Term Review of FONCODES by June 30. 1995. Based on the
review and on disussions with the Bank. the Borrower and FONCODES will
take any necessay remedial action agreed with the Bank (pam 8.2.h.)
6.42. The Mid-Term Review would require about 18 staff weeks, of which 12
weeks in the field, and include the Task Manager and consultants with
experience in the operation of similar social investment funds in Latin America.
Their main areas of expertise would be operations, health and nutrition,
education, rural development, infrastructure engineering, beneficiary assessment
and finance.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.1.  The project would benefit the poor and the most vulnerable by: (a)
creating jobs and raising the income of workers employed by FONCODES, (b)
investing in high return social and economic infrastructure in low income areas,
(c) improving availability and accessibility of social services, (d) attracting
other donors' investments, and (e) strengthening community participation,
transparent decision making and social development.
7.2.  It is estimated that good project implementation would result in: (a)
improved access to social services, such as education and health, for about 3
million people per year; (b) improved social infrastructure, such as better
schools, health posts, community kitchens, water and sanitation for 2 million
people; (c) improved economic infrastructure, such as better roads, irrigation
systems, electricity, and agriculture terracing, for about 1.3 million people; and
(d) 4.5 million workdays in FONCODES' funded projects.
Risks
7.3   The risks of the projects would be: (a) discontinuity and weakened
management of the implementing agency, that could arise in the event of
excessive political instability; (b) ineffective implementation, in the event of
poor targeting, appraisal, supervision, or lack of sustainability; (c) weakening
of existing institutions, and (d) poor governance, by FONCODES and by
community executing committees.
7.4.  To minimize risks, assurances would be sought that the replacement of
the Executive Director, General Manager, Line Managers would be subject to
prior Bank agreement on the experience and qualifications of the candidates, and
ta FONCODES would promptly inform the Bank of any replacement of
Regional Offlce Managers.



- 41 -
7.5.  To foster good project implementation and sustainability, the Bank has
requested FONCODES to make some changes in its policies and procedures, as
described in sections V and VI.  These changes have been adequately
incorporated into FONCODES' Operational Manual. The Project would also
include an ongoing impact and process evaluation of a sample of community-
based projects. The bi-annual reports would be used by FONCODES to
improve its operation and be a key element in Bank supervision.
7.6. The Government has prepared a Letter of Social Policy, which outlines
the objectives and timing of structural reforms planned to restore satisfactory
and sustainable delivery of social services. In addition, the Bank is supporting
the Government in the preparation and implementation of projects in education
and health, which are expected to strengthen the respective line ministries. An
urban development operation, also in preparation would strengthen
municipalities.
7.7. An improved management system, intensive supervision and an ongoing
audit, as described before, would foster good gov 2rnance. At the Mid-Term
Review, both objectives and procedures of FONC(ODES would be reviewed and
corrective action taken.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
8.1   Prior to negotiations, the Borrower submitted the following documents,
whose content was satisfactory to the Bank:
(a)   draft Letter of Social Sector Policy;
(b)   a modified Operational Manual including the modifications
requested by the Bank:
(i)        prioritization of community projects (pam 5.27),
(ii)       comprehensiveness or complementarity of projects
(pam 6.38),
(iii)      training requirements for the relevant project types
(para 6.38),
(iv)        beneficiary contributions and cost recovery, where
relevant (para 6.38),
(v)         draft summary environmental appraisal guidelines
(para 6.39);
(c)   Terms of reference and proposed draft contracts for: financial
intermediaries which administer revolving funds for credit to
small-scale farmers and entrepreneurs (pam 5.52); and



- 42 -
(d)   Audit report, concerning FONCODES and 100 community-based
projects, for January 1992-June 1993 (para 6.33)
8.2.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   FONCODES would maintain an Executive Director, General
Manager, Line Managers with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank (para 6.6);
(b)   any significant change in the Operational Manual and User's
Guide would require prior Bank approval (para 6.6);
(c)   credits to small-scale farmers and entrepreneurs would not
represent more than 10 percent of FONCODES' portfolio (5.32),
and loan guarantees would not be eligible for FONCODES
funding (para 5.32);
(d)   FONCODES will follow the Bank's procurement and the
consultant guidelines and the procurement procedures outlined in
paragraph 6.13 through 6.23;
(e)   FONCODES would retain the services of a procurement auditor
satisfactory to the Bank, to prepare procurement audits every six
months on the basis of appropriate samples of procurement
documentation (para 6.24);
(f)   FONCODES would retain the services of an independent
organization, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and
not later than June 30, 1994, for purposes of carrying out
evaluations of community-based projects which have been carried
out (para 6.25.g);
(g)   PONCODES provide the Bank with semi-annual reports whose
contents, format and timetable would be as outlined in paragraph
6.25;
(h)  the Borrower would undertake a Mid-Term  Review  of
FONCODES no later than June 30, 1995. Based on the review
and on discussions with the Bank, the Borrower and FONCODES
will take any necessary remedial action agreed with the Bank
(para 6.41);
(i)   FONCODES would enter into agreements with executing entities
and financial intermediaries under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank;
(j)   counterpart funds would be available in the Peruvian Government
1994 budget.
8.3. The following would be a condition of Board presentation:
(a)  the Borrower would send to the Bank a Letter of Social Sector
Policy, satisfactory to the Bank;



- 43 -
8.4. The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)   A Subsidiary Agreement for making the funds available to
FONCODES, on terms acceptable to the Bank, would be signed
(para 6.5); and
(b)   FONCODES would formally adopt the Operational Manual and
Users' Guide, satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.62).
Recommendation
8.5.  Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent to the
Republic of Peru, to be repaid over a period of 20 years, including a
five-year grace period.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
SOCIO ECONOMIC INDICATOS
DATA    YEAR   SOURCE
A. GENERAL COUNTRy
DATA:_                                              _
1. Estimated Total Population                21.9        1991        WDR
(million)                                 ________
2. Population Projection                      26         2000        WDR
Mion)                                               _
3. Assumed Year of Reaching Net                           2010       WRR
Reproduction
Rate of One
4. Size of Stationary                         48          1991       WDR
Population (Million)
5. GNP Per Capita (US$)                       1070        1991       WDR
6. Average Annual GDP                        - 0.4      1980-91      WDR
Growth Rate (%)
7. Urban Population as                        71          1991       WDR
% of Total
8. Illiteracy Rate (%)                        15          1990       WDR
9. Area (1,000 Ki2)                          1285         1990       WDR
10. Population . Density                      16         1990        WDR
(1.000 per KM2)
B. POPULATION DATA:
1. Crude Birth Rate                           27         1991        WDR
(Per 1,000)
2. Crude Death Rate                            8          1991       WDR
(Per 1,000)                                                     _
3. Annual Rate of Population Growth(%)        2.2       1980-91      WDR
4. Total Fertility Rate                       3.4         1991       WDR
5. Population Age Structure (%)
0-14 Years                             37.1        1991       WDR
15-64 Years                            60.8        1991        WDR
6. Women of Child-bearing Age
(15-49 as % of Female
Population)                                 51          1991       WDR



- 45 -
7. Contraceptive Prevalence
Rate Crotal %)                            46         1990       SID
C. HEALTH DATA:
1. Populaion Per Physician                 1040        1984      WlDR
2. Populaton per Nurse                      NA          -         WDR
3. Population per Hospital
Bed                                       590       MRE         SI
4. MPSSP Budget as % of GNP                 2.4        1990       HDR
S. MPSSP Budget as % of Total
Govt. Budget                              6.2        1986       GFS
6. Maternal Mortality
(per 10,000)                              165        1988      WDR
7. Infant Mortality Rate
(per 1,000)                               53         1991       WDR
8. Life Expectancy at Birth (Years):
Women                         66         1991       WDR
Men                          62         1991      WDR
9. Proportion of Births Attended
by Health Staff                           55         1985       WDR
GFS - Government Finance Statistics Yeabook
HDR - Human Development Report



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
DRAFr LETIER OF SOCIAL SECTOR POLICY
(To be addressed fom the Minister of Economy and Financo to the the Ditector of LAI)
Lineas prioritarias de la polltica social de2.
gobie:no
El Gobierna peruano es conciente qua la
solucift de los problemas estructurales del
pals se encuentra en el crecimiento econ6mcc
sostonido. En es-a perspectiva el Gobiernc
pretende que el Estado cumpla con au funcift
social de una manera eficienta a trivas de l
mejora de la calidad de vida de la pcblacifn
mediante el acceso a la eduacidn b4sica,
salud, administraci&i de justicia,
infraestructura bisica y empleo adecuado.
El Progama Social del Gobierno parte da
la promisa de que las personas son el capital
mIs valioso del pals. Par ello, la Politica.
Social promueve la inversi6n da modiana y
largo plaza en este capital humana, de tal
forna qua los recursos destinadas no se
consideran un gasto sina una inversion.
Las estadisticas sabre la evolucidn del
gasta social confirman la situaciL6n de.
colapsa en la que se encuentra el pals en lo
que a servicios sociales so refiere.
.En junio de l9S3 ae Gobierno presentd an
Paris el Prograza de Apayo social que, aunque
centrada en la actividad del FONCOOES,
expiesaba los elementos iniciales de las
actividades y =etas en otras treas sociales.
Si;n embargo so considera necesarti avanzar en
el desarrolla de una estrategia social con
nf asis en las actividades perinanentes.
Este doc=iento muestra solamente los
aspectos que se consideran mis importantes
para asegurar el inicia del procesa de
reforma de los sectares sociales qua asegu=Q
una mejora de las calidad de vida de la
poblaci6n, an especial de la de menoros
recursas.
El Pere esta hacienda esfuerzas enarmes
par revertir tendencias negativas en diverscs
cam.pos.   Las avances en la estabilizaci6n de



-47 -
la economla y en la lucha contra ei
terrorismo son dos aspectos que absorvieron
la mayor parte de los esfuerzes entre 1990 y
1993; se considera necesaric concentrar ahora
mayores esuterzos en los aspectos sociales.
Para esto e1 Gobierno se ha propuesto
priorizar sus ambitos de accifn y fomentar,
en todcs los cascs la participacifn de la
comunidad en la administracifn y control de
los servicios.  (aspecto sgenerales)
Se han seleccionado campos pricritaries
del programa social para obtener mejoras en
la calidad de los servicics en educacidn
salud , saneamiento y administracion de
justicia. Esto no significa dejar de lado
otros aspectos sociales importantes sino un
reconocimiento de las limitaciones de gasto y
de arganizacidn.  En general so estima que
el; gasto se incramente progresivamente hasta
estabilizarse en el mediano plazo.
adeoms de los temas espectficos que se
seoalan m&s adelante eL Goblerno continuari
con el.anAlisis y el desarrollo de acciones
para asegurar las conidiciones para un
desarrollo sostenible; el marco general
deberA asegurar la coherencia entre las
tendencias de crecimiento de la poblaci6n, el
potancial productive y el ambiente.
EJUtCACION
La reforma del sistema educativo se basa
en la transferancia a la comunidad de la
administraci6n de los centros educativos, en
tanto que el MMD fortalecerla su funciLn
normativa y de supervisitn.  El marco legal
para iniciar la reforma ya se ha dictado y se
espera contar con los reglamentes antes de
enero do 1994.
Ourante 1994 so espera haber concluido
el proceso de autonowma administrativa para
aproximadamenta ..... mil estudiantes y
continuar avanzando a ritmo acelerado en los
siguientes a?ios. Este procesa incluye otras



-48 -
acciones importantes como reforma de
curriculum, capacitaci6n, etc.
La capacidad del MED para cumplir con
sus funciones so mejorari reforzando las
4reas de .... ,
SA. X 'D
La reforma se concentrar& en el nivel de
baja complejidad buscando dar autonomIa
administrativa a los puestos de salud,
promovisndo la participacidn de la comunidad.
El MINSA reforzarl su funci6n normativa y de
supervisi6n.
So espera que .... mil personas puedan
pasar a ser atendidas per establecimientos
con administraci6n reformada para fines de
1994; se ostima quo todo el proceso de
reforma para el primer nivel requerirl de ...
afios.
La capacidad del MINSA a nivel central
se reforzar& mediante........
INFRA.ZSTRtICTUEA BASICA
La acci6n pCblica estari concentrada
principalmente en el area de saneamiento para
grupos de mencres recursos. Para 1994 se
espera contar con el marco legal adecuado y
promover que la comunidad sea la responsable
de la operaci6n y mantenimiento de los
servicios locales en coordinacidn con
empresas municipales o privadas en cada Irea
geogr&ifica.
La inversifn en saneamiento basico
durante 1994 se estima en .... iillones de
los cuales ....millones serin donaci6n a
comunidades que no pueden recuperar la
inversifn aunque si deben responsabilizarse
par la operacifr y mantenimiento.



-49 -
ADMINISTRACION DE JUSTICIAk
El Estado iniciara un proceso de
incremento de plazas de fiscales y
jueces.......
PROGRAUAS DE APOY0 Y DESARROLLO SOCIAL
Los programas de apoyo social
continuarAn en tanto las condiciones de
empleo lo requieran. Se espera que apartir
de 1997 se pueda iniciar una tondecia
decreciente y una transferencia a
instituciones permanentes de las capacidades
desarrolladas. El GRAFZCO .. muestra la
tendencia esperada del gasto si las
condiciones de empleo e ingreso de las
familias mejora paulatinamente.
Las actividades se concentrar&n en dos
grandes lineas de accion: la inversi6r  social
(INADE y FONCODES) y los programas de qapoyo
a greupos de mayor riesgo mediante
complementaci6n alimentario- nutricional.
El sistema de vigilancia nutricional servirl
do base para la orientaci6n de recursos.
El FONCODES tiene la mision principal de
traisferir capital a los grupcs pabres de la
pablacifn y apoyar a las Areas permanentes en
el pe_iodo de transici6n. FONCODES
interviene subsidiariamente donde no hay
empLeo adecuado ni actividad suficiente de
atras instituciones pabLicas o privadas; por
tanto su volumen de operacifn decrecer& en la
medida qua la situaci6n econdmica del pats
mejore, en especial en lo relacionado al
emplea y a la canacidad de las familias para.
satisfacer neces1dades blsicas. Apesar del
car&cter urgente de la acci6n de FONCODES se
intenta que sirva de apoyo para resolver
problemas estructurales, tanto por su
orientacifn general a las Areas gegr&ficas
mA.s deprimidas asT coma sirviendo de apcyo a
las procesos de reforma en los sectores
sociales permanentes como salud-nutrici6f,
educaci6n y saneamiento.



-50 -
COOERDINACION DE LAS ACTtIVDADES
La PCK y e1 MEF asuzen la funcifn de
coordinaci6n de la politica con el obj eto de
garantizar la coherencia entre ls objetivos,
las necesidades y los recursos.
La revisi6n de las politicas y e1
seguimento de su aplicacift se realizardn
cada 2.5 dias durante las reuniones
interminiateriales. Una secretarla tGcnica
so encarga de preparar los informes y la
agenda para las rouniones mzinist.riales
(CIAEF/CIAS) .



-51 -
ANNEX 3
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUNND PROJECT
FONCODES PORTFOLIO
Breakdown of Projects by Category: Jan. 1992 - Mar. 1993 (US$)
Projects Submitted            Projs Approved
Xavestment Category                         (Amount)                      (Amount)
Soaa Asitac                                34,723,753      6.40%         10,793,809       6.14%
Packages of medicines                      7,120,239      1.31%          3,993,923       2-27%
Prevention campaigns                      10,259,955      1.89%          1,6,39S         0.72%
Family planning                              224,855      0.04%            109,761       0.06%
Primary care                               2,6,664        0.49%            681,991       0.39%
Preschool care                               308,708      0.06%                 0        0.00%
Pkgs of school materiaLs                  11,386,210      2.10%          4,536,065       258%
Lbraries                                     196,694      0.04%                 0        0.00%
Literscy campaigns                         2,239,040      0.41%             26,018       0.01%
Trainng                                      339,38       0.06%            189,656       0.11%
Smit 1ntrasbucre                          231,341,731     42.66%         99,702,341      S6.74%
Water Treasbent                               2,275       0.00%                 0        0.00%
Water Supply                              89,027,536     16.42%         27,322,361      1535%
Environmental saniation                    1,211,S68      0.22%            369,59S       0.21%
Hlth materialslequipsmcnt                   712,049       0.13%            303,667       0.17%
Healh post construction                   13,175,434      2.43%          s,505,792       3.13%
Soup kitchen construction                   409,319       0.08%            124,912       0.07%
School furoture                           23,150,914      4.17%         12,049,466       6.86%
Sport center construction                  8,781,484      1.62%          5,957,274       3.39%
Communit center constr.                    4,987,550      0.92%          1,969,194       1.12%
Claussroom construction                   89,883,602     163s%          46,100,080      26.24%
EmnDomi Inrasftcture                      160,122,980     29.53%         50,704,605      28.86%
Irrigation systems    :-                  40,583,231      7.48%         18,542,307      10Q35%
Land rebabWitation                        31,751,161      5.85%          4,351,108       2.48%
Sidewalk renovation                        2,528,746      0.47%            773,66S       0.44%
Construction of wets                         612,105      0.11%             74,037       0.04%
Drought emergencies                       14,076,156      2.60%         14,340,654       8.16%
Roadl/energy infrastr.                    70,S71581      13.01%         12,622,834       7.18%
Inome Esnpbywnet P"sowp s                 116,125,340     21.41%         14,506,410       8.26%
bicroenterprise support                   63,833,506     11.77%          4,335,370       2.47%
Reforestation                             14,0-73,425     2.60%          2,998,129       1.71%
Small-scale fsheries                         344,=        0.06%              6,471       0.00%
Watering points                             294,843       0.05%              3,821 -     0.00%
Marketing infrastructure                    684,24        0.13%            163,478       0.09%
Agricultural inputs                       30,310,351      5.59%          6,990,318       3.98%
Small processing frms                      6,584,769      1.21%              8,623       0.00%
TOTAL                                     542,313,804    100.00%        175,707,165     100.00%
Number of Projects                            12,035                         6,036 1
Source and Prepandoa FONCODES



ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS-
EXECUInVE |
SPECIAL ADVISOR            DIRECTOR w 
FOR INTERNAL TECHNICAL                          FI-NTE-R-NAL |1
ASSSTACE| GENIERAL lCONTROL
MANAGER
SYSTEIMS |                              LEGAL
MANAGER                                COUNSQEL
, 'I .. I . , ~I ._,l_.
PROGRAMS AND    [SUPERVISION                      REGIONAL OFFICE        OPERATIONS
PROJECTS MANAGER    AND CONTROL                      COORDINATOR            MANAGER
REGIONAL OFFICE
MANAGERS 



- 53 -
ANNEX S
PERU
Social Develpmet and Compeatio Fund Projwet
Estimatd Priect Costs (US$ m"on)
C,*enr                           Load         F.,*.           Tal          Per_..
Comuit-ased Projects
Social asistac                                        60          11            71            14.3
Social infc                                          158          28            186           37.6
Bconmic infastcture                                 140.5         24            164.5         33.2
IncomlEinplbyment   eraation                         40            7            47            9.5
Sub-toW                                              398.5          70           468.5         94.6
| bttonl Dcvelopmeoft o FONCODES
RehabIlita  Woks                                      1.5          0              1.5          0.4
Equ nmet and veIle                                    2            4             6             1.2
Teclhni  assane                                       7            3             10            2.0
Opeaing codsa                                         7            2             9             1.8
26.5
Sub-totl                                              17.5          9                           SA
TOtl   oa                                             416           79           495           100.0
Net of txes and du*es
PERU
Social Dcvelopmet and Caomsaon Fund Project
9_qaiy of Fin    g Pln(USS mion) 
FI,umda PI                                   Local       1        Fodga                   TOWa
(loveent of Petu                              200                    0                     200
Beficries                                     42                     0                      42
World Bank                                    80                     20                    100
Inter-Americn                                 SO                     20                    10O
Development Bank                      ___
Oh  Dnors (udig KVfW)                         14                    39                      53
TOWal                                         416                   79                     495



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
Soial Developmeut and Companstion Fund Project
Edimated Schedule of Disbursements, USS millon
Bank          Se,iester     Dish. dawrh    f   wdakfive           Disb. as              Oa&mce of
P&ee  Year        Iing           Smetr            Amoun    j        X of row                Lan
FY94            30-June-94              25              25                       25                  75
FY95            31-Dec-94               20              45                       45                  55
FY95            30June-95               20              65                       65                  35
PY96            31-Dec-95               15              80                       80                  20
PY96            30-Jun96                10              90                       90                  to
FY97            31-Dec-96                5              95                       95                   5
FY97            30-Jun-97                5             100                      100                   0
PERU
Sodal Devopment and Coapensation Fund Project
Disbunements, USS mon
Whhdawal of the Proceeds of the Lan
___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ _      AThOA   ted                      Pmem     Financed
Community-based Projects                       96.50   70%  fo works and goods
100% for techll assitan
Sub4otal                                       96.50
|nttoad DevepmeAt of PONCODES
eRdabilaon Woiks                               0.75   50%
Equpmenat                                      0.75   50% of eligible  cal ependius
100% of eligible forign expenditu
Tedcnicl Assitanco (cants,                    3.00   100%
.udies, audit,  Iain__
Subtot                                          4.50
TOAL                                          100.00



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The foLlwing indicators are the basis for FONCODES performance tnonitoring and control and would be
reviewed during Bank supervision missions.
Estmated annual
disbursement
INDICATOR          SOURCE        OBJECTIVE         UNlTS          1993          1994
Th(data base)C.A.d.O. R
Projects           Projects        Estimated      Number               14,000        19.000
Presented                          Demand         Amount (USS)   598,800.000    791,000.000
Projects           Projects        EEiciency      Number                9.500        12.500
Evaluated                                         Amount (USS)   400,000,000   529.000,000
Projects           Projecm.        Efaciency      Number                8,000        10,600
Approved                                          Amount CUSS)   246,000,000   326.000,000
Projects           Projects        Eficiency      Number                7,900        10.500
Financed                                          Amount (USS)   225,000,000   323.000,000
Projects           Projects        Populadon      Number                4.000         9,000
concluded                          execudtig      Amount CUSS)    110,000,000   284.000,000
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   capacity       _
Disbursements      Projects        Eficienqc      Amount (USS)    165,000.000   250,000.000
Proporion of       Projects        Evaluation     Percentage           0.60%         0.24%
cancelled projects                 qualicy
Time between       Projects        Eticiency      Calendar Days           45
project presentation
and evaluaion
report                   .
Time between       Projects        Efficienc,     Calendar Days           18
project apprval
and first
disbursement
Human Resources:   Personnel       Eficiency      Persons
Evaluadon                                                                18o            223
Supervision                                                              1471           195
Thc informaion gathered through these performance monitoring indicators would be complemented with qua#cry
reports describing the results Of oTsgoxig'
(a) independent financial and procurement audit of a sample of community based projects;
(b) indcpcndent impact avaluadon of a samplc of cominunity-based projects, including a beneficiary assessmnct



- 56 -
ANNEX 8
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
SUPERVISION IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities                               |
Approximate                     Activity                           Skill Requirement          Staff Input
Date                                                    _
January       Project Launch Workshop                       Task Manager, specialists in      10 staff-
1994                                                        procurement, disbursements,      weeks, in
audits, evaluation               the field
May           First Supervision Mission. Focus on Social    Task Manager, specialist in      8 staff
1994          Assistance projects                           health, nutrition and education  weeks in
the field
October       Sxond Supervision Mission. Focus on Social    Task Manager, specialist in      6 staff
1994         Infrastructure Projects                       infrastructure planning and       weeks in
management                       the field
February      Third Supervision Mission. Focus on Economic    Taskl Manager, specialists in  6 staff
1995         Infrastructure Projects                       infrastructure, agriculture and   weeks in
environment                      the field
June          Mid-term Review                               Task Manager, specialists in     12 staff-
1995                                                        health and nutrition, education,  weeks in
infrastructure, agdculture and   the field
environment, financial services
and small- and micro-enterprises,
operations (procurement,
disbursement and audit)
November      Third Supervision Mission. Focus on Credits   Task manager, specialists in     6 staff-
1995          for Small-scale farmers and entrepreneurs    financial services and small- and  weeks in
micro-enterprises                the field
May 1996      Fourth Supervision Mission. Focus on ex post    Task manager, specialist in    6 staff-
evaluation and beneficiary assessment        economic evaluation and           weeks in
l_____________________________          beneficiary  assessment           the  field
November      Fifihe Supervision Mission, including a closing    Task Manager, specialists in  12 staff
1996          workshop. Focus on Lessons Learned            health and nutrition, education,  weeks in
infrastructure, agriculture and  the field
environment, financial services
and small- and micro-enterprises,
operations (procurement,
disbursement and audit)
December      Project Implementation Review                 Task Manager and evaluation      4 staff
1997                                                        specialist                       weeks in
the field



- 57 -
ANNEX 9
PERU
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPENSATION FUND PROJECT
DOCUMENTS INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT FILE
PROJECr NAME:                                    | PROJECTCODE:                   Loan    Credit No:
PERU: Social Development and Compensation Pund      6PERPA134                  _        _
SEC77ON                        DOCUMEWDESCRIP7ON (lTde, ope, auhor_)                           Doc date          Date cnt to
info Center
Decrto Legislativo No. 657. Crfation of PONCODES                                8/15191           9/30193
Decreto Supemo No. 163-91-PCM. Statutes of FONCODES                             10120/91          9/30/93
Dacreto Ley No. 26157. PONCODES law                                             12/30/92          9/30/93
Nuevos Estutoa de FONCODES. Proposed statutes of FONCODES                       1993              9/30/93
Maual de Organizacion y runciones del PONCODES. Operatia Manual,                1993              9/30/93
includig (a) main section, (b) education and (c) health.
Guis General Operativa. Uers Guide, including (a) main pam (b) teacy, (c) school    July 1993     9/30/93
librarics, (d) nmdical supplies, (e) schools, (M school furnire, (g) health pods, (b)
healt post furialture, (i) water supply, Q) sewerage, (h) power supply, () irgatian, D
roads. (k) makde, (O) spots infrauctur, (m) agricultue suppo, (a) income and
a_pklya geration).                                                                    _
Conmpromisos dc FONCODES con el Banco Mundial. Documen and reports reques       May, 1993         9/30/93
during prepaation and p-appraisal, inclhuing: (a) revised finacing plan for 1994
and 1995; (b) proposals to canr comaunty particiaion, including cot-sharing, and
project sustinability; (c) soeloeconomic indicators; (d) draft social policy leUer NOOs
in Peru; (e) key performance indicators; (f) study of cost-sharing in community-basd
projects, and(g) repott on the institutions ivolved in poverty alleviton i Peru. 
Documnos Entegados. Repots to support appraisal, incuding: (a) Olranization    7/14/93            9130t93
and  afng of FONCODES; O) Manacment information systen -  aus  and
devdopmnat plan; (c) Torgeting of social investmnas - methodology and results; (d)
proumet ruls asnd documentation for ager pwrjet; (c) D eveopmen of
maagement capacity at ocal social sector agencies.                                                           .
Back to Office Report. Pro-appraisal Mission, inclding special report on (a)   April 1993         9/30/93
management informatio system, and (b) agricuure portfolio                                       .
Back to Office Report. Appraisal Mission, including speeial reporb co: (a) inf-  August1993       9/30/93
StfUCtCre portfolio, (b) credit to small-scale farmers and entcpeurs portfolio, (c) the
qpeatioa maa, and (e) ex post evaation of a sample of project.
Decreto Supmno 050-93-PCM. Creates a Coamision to oversec public ivestment     July 93            9/30/93
with hternational conomic cooperato
Decreto Supremo 057-93-PCM. Approves the revised Msau    of PONCODES           August 93          9/30/93
Decreto Supremo 123-93-EF. Creates and ad hoc commiUee to follow up on         August 93          9/30/93
in _aioa coopea    resulting from c lative group mfeti 
Resolucion Suprean 352-93-PCM. Nominats the vrepresntatives of FONCODES in     June 1993          9/30/93
the above ad hoc committee
Social Assistance Pogram in Peru. Document prseted by the Govemmet of Peru to   June 1993         9/30/93
the Paris meeting of the Conutative Group
Derto Supreno 057-93-PCM. FONCODES stat                                        August 1993        9130193
PONOODES. Manual Operativo. Revisod Operational Manual                         October 1993       10/31/93
Infosc the Moktoso y Evaluaci6 de Inyacto de ts Programs de Miro Ema            Sqaber 1993    10131/93
de PONCODES. Evaluati  projects providing credits to snall scale cdntepis                       I 
FOD. Oganizaci. A repot _   the isi a devlopme  of ONCODS    October993                           10/31/93



- 58 -
PONCODES. EBdoa  P        hiomcio. 1ndead  Audit Rqeort by Moraao PatWoPice         Ocober 1993         10131193
Wateam
PONCODES. Iuoft Lasgo. Indeamd t Auw  Repot/Manaeemcnt Leltcr by                    October 1993        10131/93
Moao Patli/Pric. Wawue.                                                                        .
Pditca 8oci1 ddl Ocie. Draft dociutu to ban Letter of Social POlicy.                October 1993        10/31/93
PONCODES. Reopiation y uso de precioa de iwos cn e cdaulo de cosla
unia a para pswyco de infraattur. Deactina of the Xut cos systtm for
prjc evalatio.
FONCODES. Area de Program  de Apoyo a Micromnpreas (7 documents). Revised           October 1993        10/31/93
mod   cotrc.   guidoliea and evaluation ammay                                     I_I
FONCODBS. Plnamieto Estregco. Organizatioal Analys and development plan             Sqeeber 1993      10/31/93



W~~~~~~~~j R .       e5'$(                          0 >4-  7                    Ti<  OCCap                              /     
+  A                                         UANCVIICOA \,S
~~L ~~t A D_5a, RIVER ' S, 
t44                  SsnS          <           1       Aas54p  *_gABAiv _,, j);               _                   <~~~~~~~~~~N
P~~~~~~0                                                                                            DEARM R     SAr>NDARIESc 1<  -)r
P S         uW  -  -I,l   .a      ^  YUC   ; S XO,._ . 
C ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~                                                                                             ~     ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ AlEt  A,'' <   '   1
_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ut 4uc17C                                 HlE                              lX



8C   78                <                   74-                   72
ECUADOR                                 I                           COLOMBIA
I~~~~~~~IU
2- '                                                       /                'i"                                                  /         2
<                                          -/                                             '/ O                             I
$>                 r~  % 0                                                                          j  !
P. ~ ~     ~              ~            ~             ~ ~ ~ I
ZorolmilE0     ,r..was .  e. - S  (                                                                              / 1k 
TUM 5fe\-  r.X>Fi   r   0,0                                          IQIJITOS     -                    i         I 
C ororfob TUwEE~a              &  g< rS'         2."W
+y , *N._5  4..  , ,
- jtAhtBAYfQUEf   ,CutersoX  %    08020  i  H7 >  <t    \               |     l ~~~~~~~~MCDERATEYLO
CH                                    S A N                                                             LW .... .
El Alto\;>) f'v_Lo TinnlUCN C"""'                       4 Iro2OTHER ALL WEATHER ROADS
Poi>,                                                                                               PAILRconAs
~    ~   K    0~oooobo,oLAj%    TAIPOVRTS NDX
-S-UJD+<9 ILMb O  R                                                                         PORTSHa
6'' /OW07pc ,~onM-~  ~                                MORIVERS
0   qCo-oz   *ss  t_  /'j*'    g       )              -;*- ~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
Pocosm~~~~~~~~~
CI6cao\  OIuzR                                                           '.   AIRPORTSe  *    UC A Y A L I
Bo.                       H..L'te                    T       r
TRUjL ~ P oSolT.8> =-        ; OTPO     ':,                                        4 r< >.-  POTS
PASCO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -   EATMN  OUDRE
Ch.   I    M A                                                            NNAO   BOUNDARIES
12<               $Ccilaot    )                       <t   ,        )      @      ^1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    A D R E D E  D  I )S \
UCO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -i
P  A  C  I  F  I  C                                                                                                    AIYr       Gom     2 >MONA   _
*>   R~~~~~~~~~~~2 ~ ~  ~        ~         c      2C
c .HUANUCQo{U.NA  UCAYA                           CU      OL-I                            , 
O C    E             A    NScVi rd oh     i
0Iti ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     i
S.nA. ft,             )       A-dolCAA,>W,                         > fe            *
.14                                                                                             c                                   (IC ._  t RiMA    
ACUCHO d# ..)PASCO                     I!         R
X CEROD yaPOP                           '        .           B4 <  
CbonooNazpS    vp q; LoOroyo Jr N                          YN   ,   *.N O                 
P    E    R    U                                                                    M       ;)  .              j    2
PA   C  I F  I C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E0V   
1-   PO\/ERTY INDEX BY                                                              Pt. ARMlA            g<\\z'   16
DE PARTMENT, 1 992 <
am .                 mI .C     c,z
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~S
0   SO  100  150  200  250                                                                            Ta  
KILOMETERS                                                                    T'       A   M soA o 
18'                                                                                                                    AC' 'Mcl           18-i
80.                 78'                  76'                 74'                  72-            AoL   70CHILEo
'0         I                                        I                                                             '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



