Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3684 PE
                          Loan Agreement
        (Social Development and Compensation Fund Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 22, 1993
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3684 PE
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Bank has received a letter dated November 25, 1993,
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to improve its social sector (hereinafter called
the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Interamerican
Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $100,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
      (D)   in addition to the IDB Loan Agreement, the Borrower
intends to contract from bilateral and multilateral aid and
Page  2
development organizations (Financiers) loans and grants (the
Funding) in an amount equivalent to $53,000,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the
Financiers (the Funding Agreements);
      (E)   the Project will be carried out by Fondo Nacional de
Compensacion y Desarrollo Social (FONCODES) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to FONCODES the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and FONCODES;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      (c)   The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and
the Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the
end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
            "or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph 2 (c) of
      the Schedule to the Project Agreement, the Bank shall, in
      respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) have received no
      applications or requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of
      said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such applications or
      requests, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
      the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or
      requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the
      case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
      Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
      of the Loan shall be cancelled."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Beneficiary Group" means a group of individuals who are
appointed by the community benefitting from a Subproject, all in
accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual, to carry out a Subproject and "Beneficiary
Groups" means all of such groups of individuals;
      (b)   "By-laws" means the by-laws (Estatuto) of FONCODES as
approved by the Borrower's Supreme Decree (Decreto Supremo) No. 057-
93-PCM dated August 18, 1993 and published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette (El Peruano) dated August 19, 1993, as amended from
Page  3
time to time;
      (c)   "Charter" means the Borrower's Legislative Decree
(Decreto Legislativo) No. 657 dated August 14, 1991 and published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette (El Peruano) dated August 15, 1991
and the Borrower's Decree Law (Decreto Ley) No. 26157 dated December
24, 1992 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette (El
Peruano) dated December 30, 1992, all as amended from time to time;
      (d)   "Community-based Subproject" means a community-executed,
labor-intensive project for economic infrastructure, social
infrastructure or social services as described further in the letter
of even date herewith from FONCODES to the Bank;
      (e)   "Executing Entity" means a public entity, private entity
or a Beneficiary Group which meets the eligibility criteria set
forth in the Operational Manual and which proposes to carry out or
is carrying out a Community-based Subproject, and "Executing
Entities" means all of such entities and Beneficiary Groups;
      (f)   "Fiduciary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between FONCODES and an Intermediary Entity as referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement and "Fiduciary
Agreements" means all of such agreements;
      (g)   "Intermediary Entity" means a private entity or
financial institution which meets the eligibility criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual and which, acting in a fiduciary capacity,
assists FONCODES in the financing of Small Enterprise Subprojects
and "Intermediary Entities" means all of such entities and
institutions;
      (h)   "Monitoring Indicators and Targets" means the set of
indicators to the Bank and targets set forth in the letter from
FONCODES to the Bank of even date herewith;
      (i)   "Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by
FONCODES, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement and to
include the administrative, promotion, eligibility, appraisal and
supervision criteria to be followed in the carrying out of
Subprojects and the user's guides for processing and monitoring
Subprojects, as such manual may be changed from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and FONCODES;
      (j)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and FONCODES of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement.
      (k)   "Small Enterprise" mean an individual or enterprise,
including farmers, fishermen and microenterprises, which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and which
proposes to carry out or is carrying out a Small Enterprise
Subproject;
      (l)   "Small Enterprise Subproject" means a project to support
income and employment generation of a Small Enterprise in areas and
activities such as small-scale fisheries, agriculture inputs, food
processing and other areas and activities as the Bank and FONCODES
may agree from time to time and which meets the eligibility criteria
set forth in the Operational Manual;
      (m)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Subproject" means a Community-based Subproject or a
Small Enterprise Subproject, which is eligible for financing by
FONCODES in accordance with the provisions of the Operational
Manual;
      (o)   "Subproject Agreement" means each of the agreements to
Page  4
be entered into between FONCODES and Executing Entities and between
Intermediary Entities and Small Enterprises as referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (i) and (iii) of the Project Agreement; and
      (p)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and FONCODES pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
Page  5
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement: (i) shall
cause FONCODES to perform all its obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement; (ii) shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FONCODES to perform
such obligations; and (iii) and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
      (b)   without limitation or restriction to the provisions in
the above paragraph (a), the Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Loan to FONCODES under an agreement under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank; and
      (c)   the Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations
and exercise all of its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating,
waiving or failing to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  6
      Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out, or caused
to be carried out, by FONCODES pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall participate in the mid-term
review referred to in 2.05 of the Project Agreement and shall take
all necessary action to implement, or to enable FONCODES to
implement, any actions to be taken as a result of the referred mid-
term review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including
                   those for the Special Account for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                   including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                   to whether the statements of expenditure
                   submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                   the procedures and internal controls involved in
                   their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   FONCODES shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  7
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that FONCODES will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Charter or the By-laws shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of
the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of FONCODES to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of FONCODES or for the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project,
                         including the IDB Loan and the Funding,
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms thereof, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
           (ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Bank that:
                   (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                         or prematuring is not caused by the
                         failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                         its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                         available to the Borrower from other
                         sources on terms and conditions consistent
                         with the obligations of the Borrower under
                         this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this
Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   any event specified in paragraphs (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                          ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between
the Borrower and FONCODES; and
      (b)   the Operational Manual has been adopted by FONCODES.
Page  8
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by FONCODES, and is legally binding upon FONCODES in
accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
FONCODES in accordance with its terms; and
      (c)   that the Operational Manual has been duly adopted by
FONCODES.
      Section 6.03. The date March 22, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy and Finance
            Jiron Junin 319
            Lima 1, Peru
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF PERU
                         By /s/ Ricardo V. Luna
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  9
                         By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Part A of the Project:
    (a)  Works acquired      24,000,000)
         by direct                     )
         contracting                   )
                                       )
    (b)  Works other         45,500,000)
         than under                    )
         (a) above                     )
                                       )        70%
    (c)  Goods                5,000,000)
         acquired by                   )
         direct con-                   )
         tracting                      )
                                       )
    (d)  Goods other         14,000,000)
         than under (c)                )
         above
    (e)  Technical            7,000,000         100%
         assistance
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2) Part B of the Project:
    (a)  Works                   750,000        50%
    (b)  Goods                   750,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
    (c)  Technical             3,000,000        100%
         assistance
                             ___________
         TOTAL               100,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
Page  10
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may
be made in respect of any Category on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1993.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for civil works of less than US$150,000 equivalent,
for goods of less than US$100,000 equivalent and for services
provided by consulting firms of less than US$100,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
(a) sustaining its poverty alleviation efforts; (b) mitigating the
social costs of its macroeconomic adjustment; and (c) strengthening
the institutional capabilities of FONCODES.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Poverty Alleviation
      Support of FONCODES' poverty alleviation efforts through the
execution of Community-based Subprojects and Small Enterprise
Subprojects.
Part B:     Institutional Strengthening of FONCODES
      Strengthening the institutional capabilities of FONCODES
through: (1) the rehabilitation and refurbishing of FONCODES'
facilities; (2) training of FONCODES staff in project management;
(3) studies on poverty; (4) organizational analysis for addressing
poverty issues; and (5) technical assistance related to the
implementation and supervision of the Project including ex-post
evaluations of Subprojects and support in the preparation and
implementation of Subprojects.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1999                               1,870,000
November 15, 1999                          1,940,000
May 15, 2000                               2,010,000
November 15, 2000                          2,085,000
May 15, 2001                               2,165,000
November 15, 2001                          2,245,000
May 15, 2002                               2,325,000
November 15, 2002                          2,415,000
May 15, 2003                               2,505,000
November 15, 2003                          2,595,000
May 15, 2004                               2,695,000
November 15, 2004                          2,795,000
May 15, 2005                               2,895,000
November 15, 2005                          3,005,000
Page  11
May 15, 2006                               3,115,000
November 15, 2006                          3,230,000
May 15, 2007                               3,350,000
November 15, 2007                          3,475,000
May 15, 2008                               3,605,000
November 15, 2008                          3,740,000
May 15, 2009                               3,880,000
November 15, 2009                          4,020,000
May 15, 2010                               4,170,000
November 15, 2010                          4,325,000
May 15, 2011                               4,485,000
November 15, 2011                          4,655,000
May 15, 2012                               4,825,000
November 15, 2012                          5,005,000
May 15, 2013                               5,190,000
November 15, 2013                          5,385,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                         SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
Page  12
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Peru may be
granted a margin of preference to domestic in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$3,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$18,000,000, and goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$5,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$47,000,000, and goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$16,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
contractors or suppliers, as the case may be, eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Civil works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the
equivalent of $35,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate limit
of $35,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
directly in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of standard regionalized unit prices agreed from time to
time between the Bank and FONCODES, provided, however, that no more
than $35,000 equivalent shall be awarded directly for any particular
Subproject. Starting on July 1, 1994, and every six months
thereafter, the Borrower shall cause FONCODES to review the said
prices then in effect, and to revise said prices if, in the opinion
of the Bank, the review shows that the revision is justified.
4.    Equipment and construction materials under Part A of the
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less per
contract for equipment and $15,000 or less per contract for
construction materials, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$7,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded directly in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
standard regionalized unit prices agreed from time to time between
the Bank and FONCODES and provided, however, that no more than
$5,000 equivalent and $15,000 equivalent for equipment and
construction materials, respectively, shall be awarded directly for
any particular Subproject.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $150,000 or more, each contract for
goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000 and the
first contracts for civil works and goods in each year of Project
implementation irrespective of the estimated costs, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist FONCODES, the Executing Entities and the
Small Enterprises in carrying out the Project, FONCODES shall
employ, or cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, FONCODES shall employ, or caused to be
employed, such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  14
and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                 deposits into the Special Account at such
                 intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                 and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                 graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                 from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                 Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                 requested and as shall have been shown by said
                 documents and other evidence to have been paid out
                 of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remainingunwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
Page  15
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
