Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reowrt No- 5651
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
(LOAN 1250-IND)
May 15, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This docuent bas a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only i the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed witbout World Bank uthoriezion. I



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND SHIPPINC PROJECT (LOAN 1250-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Glossary of Abbreviations
BAPINDO  -  Bank Pengembangan Indonesia (State Bank of Indonesia)
BKI      -  Biro Klasifikasi Indonesia
dwt      -  deadweight tons
CL       -  Germanischer Lloyd
GOI      -  Government of Indonesia
GRT      -  Cross Registered Tons
lMO      -  Intergovernmental Maritime Organization
MSDP     -  Maritime Sector Development Program
PANN     -  Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (National FLeet Development
Corporation)
PELNI    -  Pelayaran Nasional (National Shipping Corporation)
RLS      -  Regular Liner Service
Ro-Ro    -  Roll-on/Roll-off
SEACOM   -  Directorate General of Sea Communications
This document has a resuictad distrbution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of|
their oficial duties Its ountents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-IND)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                   ...................    i
Basic Data Sheet                 ........................
Highlights                      ..................  iii
I. INTRODUCTION    .. 
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL....                                          2
A. Lessons of First Shipping Project. .                                       2
*               B. Preparation of Second Prject. . .                                          3
vi) Organization and Procedures .                   .                3
(ii) Ship Safety and the Enforcement of
Regulations . .                                               4
(iii) New and Secondhand Ship Acquisition .                .           4
(iv) Technical Assistance .                     .                     5
C. Project Appraisal and Project Scope                 ...                    5
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION..                                                       7
A. Ship Procurement.                                                          7
B. Scrapping .............-. .-.-.   10
C. Safety .10
D. Technical Assistance .11
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION                   . . .12
A. P.T. PANN                     ...12
B. Shipping Lines                    . . .14
(i) Private Shipping Lines .14
(ii) P.T. PELNI .15
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION .17
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT .18
VII. ROLE OF THE BANK .20
VIII. CONCLUSIONS .21



Table of Contents (cont'd.)
Page No.
ANNEXES
l-a      P.T. PANN - Balance Sheets ......     .....................  22
1-b      P.T. PANN - Income Statemenes ........................       23
2-a      Subloan Summary - Shipping Companies    ................     24
2-b      Subloan Summary - Vessels ... o    .......................   25
3        Shipping Companies - Financial Statements ....    ........    26
4        Vessel Accounts .................................... .       40
5-a      Freight Traffic and Shipping Capacity Requirements:
Forecasts vs. ActuaLs            .              .......     70
5-b      Passenger Traffic - Forecasts vs. Actuals   ....      ..    71
ATTACHNENT
Borrower Comments.....................      .     .72



INDONESIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-IND)
Preface
This project completion report presents a performance evaluation of
the Second Shipping Project in Indoaesia for which Loan 1250-IND for US$54
million was approved in May 1976. The report was prepared by the East Asia
and Pacific Region and focuses mainly on the Bank - financed components of the
overall program.
The PCR is based on data supplied by the NationaL Fleet Development
Corporation, P.T. Pengembangan Armada Niags Nasional (PANN), on records of the
Directorate General of Sea Communications (SEACOM) for the technical assis-
tance aspects, and on discussions with the staff of the two organizations and
with Bank staff involved, whose comments have been incorporated in the PCR.
It is important to recognize that this project covers a "time-sLice" of the
Bank's assistance to the Government of Indonesia in its efforts to improve
maritime transport. The original closing date of the loan was the end of
1980, but this was extended twice, until June 30, 1983. Data supplied by PT
* PANN principally covers the time until the end of 1982 (the end of PANN's 1982
fiscal year) and the PCR focuses on this period. However, the report also
describes subsequent developments where possible. This provides additional,
useful information to understand the longer term impact of the project, and
especially its contribution to the current efforts of the Government and the
Bank at improving the maritime sector in Indonesia.
A previous report (Report No. 4408, dated March 25, 1983) dealt with
the First Shipping Project (Credit 318-IND).
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting procedures
this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) but the
project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion Report was sent to
the Borrower for comments. Their comments are shown as an attachment to the PCR.



- ii -
INDONESIA
9CCOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT PERFORKANCE AUDIT REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal         Actual or          Actual on X of
eatitate       estimated actual   appraisal eatimate
Project costs (USS million)                                   195.2              165.6                    R5 /a
Loan amount (US$ .llllon                                       5 .0               5 .0                   100
Date board approval                                         05/04/76           05/04/76
Date M ectivenems                                            10/03'76          10/03/76
Date physica    uonna coupleted  Nb VA                                             N A
Closing date /b                                              12/31/80          06/30/83                 +50
Economic rate of return (Z)                                     1                                         39
Financial rate of return Z)                                    N/A                NtA
lnstitutional performance                                     G Cood              Good
CUIWLATIVE DISBURSEHENTS
FY76     FY77      FY78     FY79      FY80      FYR1     FY82      FYA3      CYR3
Appraisal estim_te (USS m1n)        0.2     35.4      50.5      53.3      54.0
Actual (USS d llion)                         0.0       2.9       8.5      27.5    36.9       45.4     53.0      54.0
Actual as X of esttmate             0.0      0.0       5.7      15.9      50.9    68.3       84.1     98.1    100.0
Date of final disburoement           November 14. 1983
Principal rep id to (mo./day/yr.) (US  million  June 30. 1984:  S12.44 million.
MISSION DATA
Date      No. of       Hen-days   Specializations   Performnce rating           Type of
mission           (eotyr)     persons      in field   represented /c   Status                     problems /f
Identification         07/74  Resident Staff                  A.B.C              -          ^
Preparation            10/74         "                        A,B.C              -          -
Appraisal              11/74         3             45          A.B.C             -           -
Subtotal                         3            45
Supervision  1         10/76         2             10          A.B               2           3            P,M,F
Supervision  2         05177         2             28          A.C               2           2           M,F,T
Supervision  3         01(78         2             20          A.C               2           2            F,HT
Supervision  4.        08/78         2             28          A.C               2           3            F,M
Supervision  5         02V79         2             10         A.C                2           2              F
Supervision  6         09/79         1              2         A                  3           1               F
Supervlaion  7         09/80         2              8          A.C               Z           I              F
Supervision  8         12/81         1              4         A                  2           2              F
Supervision  9         01783         1              3          B                 1           2
Supervision 10         05/83         1              2          B                 1           2
Supervision 11
Subtotal                                     115
Tocal                                         160
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:  Covernment of Indonesia
Executing agency:  P.T. Pengembangan Armada Nta-a Nasional (P.T. PANN): Directorate Gen. of Sea Comrunications
Fiacal Year of Borrower: April I-March 31 Fiscal year of P.T. PANN: calendar year
Name of currency (abbreviation)                                         Rupiah (Rp)
Appraisal year average               1976                USS1.00 -       415
Intervening years average            1979                US$1.00 -       625
Completion year average              1983                USS1.00 -       925
Follow-on project:
Name:                  First National Ports Developeent Project (formerly named Maritime III)
Loan/credit number:   N/A
Loan/credit amount:   N/A
Date Board approval.  NIA
/s US529.6 million equivalent Japanese financing not activated.
7b  Percentage in third column to be calculated from Board approval date.
7c  A - Shipping Specialist; B - economist; C - financial analyst, etc.
75 1 - problem-frce or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major problems.
7e 1 - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - deteriorating.
7T  F - financial; M - managerial; T - technical; P - polttical; and 0 - other.
N/A - Not Applicable.



- ili -
INDOtESIA
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-rND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
The Second Shipping Project was a sequel to the First Shipping
Project for which an IDA Credit (Cr. 318-IND for US$8.5 million) was made
available in 1972. At the time the First Project was nearing completion, a
Five-Year Port Development Program for Indonesia was prepared by the Dutch
consultants, Maritime Research Center, with Bank financing, and the Second
Project was based on the recommendations of that study (para. 2.03).
2.        The principal objectives of the Second Project were:
(a) to help finance part of the additional tonnage of shipping needed to
meet anticipated inter-island traffic needs over the 1975-79 period,
namely some 100,000 dwt, half in the form of used ships and half in
new shipS;
(b) to initiate a ship scrapping program to scrap about 70,000 dwt of
ships that were unsafe for operation; and
(c)  to assist in the rehabilitation of some 50,000 dwt of shipping that
could be economically rehabilitated (para. 2.11).
3.        The total program was expected to cost US$201.5 million, of which
the Bank loan would provide US$54.0 million, with the rest coming from Japan
(US$25.0 million), Norway (US$99.7 million) and internal sources (the balance
of US$22.8 million). The Bank loan was expected to finance ship repair and
rehabilitation (US$7.3 million), purchase of used ships (US$38.1 million) and
new ships (US$4.8 million), and technical assistance and training (US$3.8
million). As it turned out, actual expenditures from the loan were reasonably
close to appraisal estimates, although substant ally less tonnage was
rehabilitated and less tonnage of new ships bought, but these were offset by a
larger purchase of used ships (para.,. 3.05-3.10).
4.        As part of the Bank-financed project, a substantial program of
technical assistance was undertaken for (a) a major maritime training effort,
(b) advisors to BAPINDO's shipping department, (c) a management study of
PELNI, and (d) a study to prepare the basis for future projects. All of these
activities were successfully completed. The study under (d) helped develop
the MSDP and provided the basis -for a proposed ports development project
(paras. 3.14-3.16).
5.        Traffic growth, both freight and passenger, has been slower than
expected, especially since 1980 when world oil prices began to weaken,



- iv -
affecting the Indonesian economy adversely. At the same time the ship
scrapping program never got underway as the COI was reluctant, for noneconomic
reasons, to enforce ship safety inspection (para. 3.11). Ship productivity,
as a result of this and other faccors, did not improve as expected at
appraisal, and the economic return on the project as implemented is estimated
at only 7X, compared with the appraisal estimate of 18Z. Accually but for the
modifications in the project, involving reduction in the volume of new
shipping bought, the return would have been even lower (para. 5.05).
6.        While compliance with most of the covenants has been satisfactory, a
principal covenant relating to the scrapping of 70,000 dwc of overaged and
unsafe ships was not complied with. This, in part, frustrated one of the main
objectives of the project, viz., to improve safety and productivity in inter-
island shipping operations. To some extent, this failure also made the
project less economically justified than expected because ship productivity
went down, instead of going up, with old and unsuitable ships continuing to
operate (paras. 3.12-3.13).
7.        Nevertheless, the project has, on the whole, been successful in
initiating a gradual process of changes in inter-island shipping in
Indonesia. It has helped establish a new institution to assist the smaller
shipping companies which cannot take advantage of traditional sources of ship
tfnancing.  It has contributed to improving shipping services in the eastern
isLands where some improvement was urgently needed. And it also helped
finance consultant services, which, among other things, has led to the
development of a long-term maritime sector development program that will
enable Indonesia to benefit from recent advances in ship technology and port
operations (para. 8.01).



INDONESIA
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      For Indonesia, a country consisting of some 13,000 islands spread
over more than one seventh of the earth's circumference, an effective maritime
transport system is essential for her existence as a nation, and for her
social and economic deveLopment. This project aimed at strengthening the
maritime transport system, and in particular the shipping services, through:
(a)  a program of rehabilitation of older vessels and of scrapping of
vessels which could not be rehabilitated;
(b)  procurement of new and used cargo ships suitable for the Indonesian
interisland trade; and
(c)  technical assistance and training.
Secondary benefits of the project included improved capabilities of shipyards,
provision of new financial services to the sector, improvements in safety, the
strengthening of various governmentaL and regulatory bodies in the maritime
sector, and a generally better understanding of the sector and its problems.
1.02      The implementation and success of the project rested principally on
policy measures to be taken by the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to improve
ship safety and sector regulation, and on new procedures for financing the
physical parts of the project through the newly established National Fleet
Development Corporation (P.T. Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional, PANN).
Although at the outset of the project GOI considered ship safety and sea-
worthiness policies to be important, few were actually implemented, thus
removing a major inducement for rehabilitation/replacement of ships.
Consequently the pace of the project was very slow initially, and accelerated
only later as other factors increased the demand for more efficient vessels.
At present, the ships procured through P.T. PANN, especially the imported used
cargo ships, constitute the backbone of the interisland trade, and in particu-
lar in the economically weaker eastern parts of the country, to whose
development the Government is giving high priority.
1.03      The secondary benefits were largely realized.  In particular, P.T.
PANN has become an effective source of finance for the industry, and sector
knowledge gained through various studies has become an important basis for
GOI's ongoing Maritime Sector Development Program (MSDP) and for further Bank
lending in the sector.



- 2 -
1.04      Bank Group assistance to the 9OI to improve inter-island transport
began with the First Shipping project  . The Second Shipping Project was
prepared amidst difficulties experienced by the first project, and attempted
to build on the knowledge of the sector gained from that project. This report
is based on Bank staff supervision reports, on data furnished by the project
entities, the Directorate General of Sea Communications and P.T. PANN, and on
discussions with Bank staff involved.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Lessons of First Shipping Project
2.01      By the mid-1970s, it had become apparent that the Firsc Shipping
Project was not being implemented as planned, anItwas in fact close to coming
to a halt. The principal reasons for this were:-
(a) rehabilitation costs were substantially higher than originally
estimated. Due to defects which were not discovered by the original
survey and the long time gap between survey and repair work, ships
had deteriorated further, which added significantly to repair cost,
particularly as this was a period of high worldwide inflation;
(b) the poor financial management and financial condition of shipping
companies made them unsuitable candidates foa loans from the State
Bank (Bank Pengembangan Indonesia, BAPINDO);J'
(c) the failure to enforce safety regulations which would have led to a
reduction in excess tonnage through scrapping; unresolved problems
with route allocations; and a restricrive rate policy whicL pre-
vented operators from adjusting tariffs to reflect rapidly rising
costs. With so much uncertainty over their revenues and expenses,
owners were reluctant to make substantial investments. Instead,
these conditions made it advantageous to operate oLd ships with a
minimum of investment and only urgently needed repairs.
1/   First Shipping Project, Cr. 318-IND for US$8.5 million approved 6/27/72,
completed 12/31/79 (PPAR Report No. 4408, of March 25, 1983).
2/   For details, see PCR attached to PPAR.
3/   One of the factors that emerged at that time was that BAPINDO, as a state
development bank, was at a disadvantage in dealing with small ship-
owners. It could not offer a full range of banking services; its statute
required a certain minimum level of security that many shipowners could
not, or would not, provide; and as a state organization it could not
collect effectively on overdue accounts but had to rely on a government
collection agency. As it could also not operate any assets which it
might repossess, its bargaining position with debtors was weak.



B. Preparation of Second Project
2.02      As the main problems of the shipping sector - obsolescence,
overcapacity, poor productivity and poor management - were only being partly
resolved through the first project, new approaches to the problems had to be
incorporated in the second project. The following describes how the principal
problems and concerns were to be dealt with.
(i) Organization and Procedures
2.03      Recognizing the institutional problems between BAPINDO and the small
shipowners, consultants recommended the creation of a new financing organ-
ization. The "Long Term Fleet Development Study" by Dutch consultants, and a
Japanese shipping team studying inter-island transport, recommended that
inter-island ships be procured by a new organization and leased or sold on
installment terms to shipping companies. This would give the lessor or seller
greater leverage in enforcing lease and purchase on installment terms and, by
focusing on the lease service payments to arise from the operation of a
specific ship on a specific route or in a specific trade, de-emphasize the
importance of the shipping company's overall financial position which was
often unascertainable and always complex. The Bank agreed that this approach
wa3 worth trying and accepted the principle of leasing and purchase on
installment as the basis for further involvement in the sector.
2.04      The Government subsequently organized a national shipping develop-
ment corporation, P.T. Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (PANN), to acquire
new and used ships and lease them or sell them on hire-purchase terms to RLS4/
shipping companies. The Government intially owned 60% and BAPINDO 40% of
PANN, although restrictions on BAPINDO's ability to invest more than a limited
percentage of its assets in any one company resulted in BAPINDO initially sub-
scribing to a smaller portion of PANN's equity (as of March 1984 BAPINDO had
subscribed to about 15% of PANN's paid-in capital). An experienced shipping
executive was appointed to head it, and consultants were retained to prepare
an organizational plan, job requirements, and operating and financial
procedures. The Bank reviewed these proposals and agreed to them after
adaptation of specific lease and installment purchase documents widely used in
international shipping circles, and the preparation of a Policy Statement to
govern PANN's operations, wh:.h included the requirement that each subloan
would involve both a Subloan Appraisal Report and a Development Agreement
designed to address specific operating deficiencies (training, accounting,
technical matters) as part of the lease or installment purchase operation.
The Appraisal Reports would be reviewed by the Bank for each subloan prior to
disbursement. This preparatory work has stood the test of time and no further
changes, except some simplifications, have been required.
4/   Regular Liner Service.



(ii) Ship Safety and the Enforcement of Regulations
2.05      Technical assistance under the first shipping project by
Germanischer Lloyd (CL) to the Indonesian national ship classification
society, Biro Klasifikasi Indonesia (BKI), resulted in an improvement in BKI
standards. The Bank deemed dual classification of ships (CL/BKI) still
necesglry and requested that such assistance oe continued until the end of
1978.4  However, cLassification covers the ship's structure and propulsion
equipment and not aLl aspects of safety, such as safety equipment, lifeboats,
lifesaving devices, and training. These continued to be the province of
Government officials who were untrained and operated with outdated rules.
Project preparation of this aspect caused much difficulty and delay before
agreement was reached that existing safety rules wouLd be revised and the
revised rules enforced.
(iii) New and Secondhand Ship Acquisition
2.06      During the 1970s new technoLogies (Ro-Ro, containers, etc.) were
being applied to coastal shipping in European and Japanese waters with new,
efficient ships using these technologies, displacing large numbers of tra-
ditional design coastal shipping vessels in the 750 deadweight ton (dwt) to
3,000 dwt class. This :educed the prices of traditional ships on the second
hand (used) ship market relative to the traditional difference in prices of
new and used ships of the same type. At about the same time, as a result of
increased oil prices, the prices of aLl old-technology ships declined. Thus,
Indonesia could obtain at relatively low prices recently built ships (albeit
used) of a type its sailors were familiar with and which could serve its ports
efficiently, at a time when the prices of new ships of all types were
rising. It was calculated during project preparation that, while rehabilita-
tion of the better maintained Indonesian ships could take place at an index
price of 100, a used, good ship would cost 230, and a new ship 410. The case
for concentrating on ship rehabilitation and, through a vigorous scrapping
program, replacement of obsolete ships by used ships, seemed clear.
2.07      A major problem for lndonesia was also the supply of spare parts and
repair equipment as some of the ships were so old that parts had to be manu-
factured on order. Consequent delays in repairs caused ships to be out of
service for long periods. Frequent breakdowns disrupted shipping operations
and delays in customs clearance often immobilized ships and repair yard faci-
lities. The Government thought that this could be overcome by acquiring a
large number of new ships of similar specifications. The Long-Term Fleet
Development Study, financed under the First Shipping Project, had prepared
comprehensive specifications for a family of coastal ships of 750 dwet to 1,650
dwt, with the smaller sizes suitable fE.r building in Indonesian shipyards.
5/   This dual classification requirement was relaxed after experience showed
that BKI inspections were satisfactory.



2.08      The Government's initial proposal for the project was to acquire
103,500 dwt of new ships and 34,500 dwt of used ships, with no scrapping or
rehabilitation. The Bank did not agree to this as locally built ships would
be even more expensive than imported new ships and would overly strain local
shipbuilding capacity. Therefore, the low-cost approach to improving the
sector was to begin with a program of rehabilitation and acquisition of used
ships. Subsequently, following stricter enforcement of classification and
safety regulations, unseaworthy ships would be taken out of service, creating
further demand for repLacement. By that time, the country's shipbuilding and
ship-repair facilities would be able to meet the demand. The project would
furnish financing for ship replacement, and the Bank's industrial loans to
BAPINDO would furnish foreign exchange with which to improve the ship-repair
industry. Improvement of shipbuilding was expected to take somewhat longer.6/
2.09      After about 18 months' discussions between the Covernment and the
Bank about the best course of action, it was concluded that a large tonnage of
obsolete ships should be withdrawn from service by scrapping, while another
large part of the fleet should be rehabilitated. Necessary additions to the
fleet should come from both imported second-hand ships and newly built ships.
(iv) Technical Assistance
2.10      A substantial program of bilateral technical assistance to the
maritime sector was in place in Indonesia during the period covered by the
First Shipping Project and a good part of the Second Project. The Federal
Republic of Germany, Japan, and the Netherlands each had advisory teams in
place dealing with ship classification, crew training, telecommunications,
shipping company operations, and planning. Additional technical assistance
from Norway became available during project preparation for shipyard training,
an advisory team for PANN, revision of safety rules and training in a wide
variety of shipping related fields. During project preparation arrangements
were made for the continuation of financing of some of the shipping related
activities and for Bank financing of a major maritime training effort, con-
tinued financing of advisors to BAPINDO's shipping department, an economic
study ta prepare the basis for further projects, and a management consultant
study of the large nationaL general cargo shipping company, P.T. PeLayaran
Nasional (PELNI).
C. Project Appraisal and Project Scope
2.11      The project finaLly agreed upon consisted of the following
components:
(a) Rehabilitation of 54,500 dwt of existing inter-isLand ships, where
economically sound and technically and financially feasible;
6/   Except for 6 new ships of 750 dwt, built in Indonesia with difficulty and
long delays, all the new ships acquired under the project were built
abroad.



(b) procurement of about 47 used cargo ships, totalling about 52,000
dwt, in the 1,000, 1,500 and 2,500 dwt classes;
(c) procurement of 47 new standard cargo and cargo-passenger ships,
totalling about 50,250 dwt, in the 750, 1,000, and 1,500 dwt
classes;
(d) scrapping of about 70,000 dwt of existing inter-island ships of over
500 dwt which could not be economically rehabilitated;
(e) a technical assistance program designed to support and improve
inter-island fleet operations and planning and training of marine
officers and engineers, and a study to determine shipping require-
ments during the remainder of Repelita II and up to 1990.
Financing for ships came from BAPINDO, the Bank loan, Norway and Japan.
Financing for technical assistance, studies, etc. came also from Germany, the
Netherlands and the Indonesian Covernment. The project and the items for
financing by the Bank and Norway are set out below:
PROJECT COMPONENTS AND SOURCES OF FINANCE
(US$ million)
Component                      Bank   Norway  BAPINDO  PANN  COI   Total  Tonnage
(dwt)
(a)  Rehabilitation             7.3    -     4.0      1.1      -    12.4   54,500
(b) Used ships:
Cost of ships          35.6    -      5.6       -      -    41.2   52,000
Contingency             2.5    -       -        -      -      2.5
.c)  New ships /a               -   93.8    5.4        -       -    99.2   50,250
(d)  Delivery cost             4.8   3.7      -        -       -     8.5
(e)  Technical assistance       3.8   2.2     -        -     0.4    6.4
Project Cost        54.0  99.7   15.0       1.1    0.4  170.2  156,750
Interest during
construction             -      -      -       6.3     -     6.3
Total Finance       54.0  99.7   15.0       7.4    0.4  176.5  156,750
/a This excludes the $25 miLlion of new ships to be financed by Japan,
subsequently dropped from the project.



-7-
2.12       In addition to the shipping tonnage shown in Table 1, an additional
11,000 dwt consisting of 3,500 dwt of new and 7,500 dwt of used ships were to
be financed and acquired by the private sector.
2.13      The project was approved by the Board on May 4, 1976 and a loan of
US$54.0 million was signed on May 20, 1976 and became effective on October 8,
1976. The original loan closing date was December 31, 1980 but this was
extended twice, first to December 31, 1982, and then to June 30, 1983.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      The following describes project implementation, principally the
Bank-financed components of the overall program, from effectiveness in October
1976 until the loan closing date in June 1983.
A. Ship Procurement
3.02       Before the loan became effective, P.T. PANN acquired eight used
ships (including one bulk carrier), financed by a BAPINDO loan, and the
present status of these is as follows: four sold, including the bulk carrier;
three sold on installment terms; and one leased.  In addition, orders were
placed for 20 new ships to be built in Norway for delivery starting in mid-
1977.  With the appraisal procedures for subloans agreed upon, and BAPINDO's
advisory role clarified, P.T. PANN began to deal with weaker shipping firms,
used ships and ship rehabilitation.
3.03      At first, PANN's appraisals were based on BAPINDO's exacting
methods, which resulted in long delays until audited corporate accounts (a
lending requirement) were available. As PANN, assisted by a financial and a
technical advisor fi7anced by Norway through the Intergovernmental Maritime
Organization (IMO),7 became more proficient, a "short form" for appraisal was
introduced, based on the vessel's anticipated revenues ano on estimates of the
company's accounts rather than audits. This subscantially shortened subloan
preparation and review time.
3.04      The Development Agreements, signed by shipping companies as a condi-
tion of subloan approval, were reviewed by PANN every three months for comp-
liance, and by Bank supervision missions. The agreements covered topics such
as maintaining safety standards and placing insurance at vessel replacement
cost with PANN as beneficiary. Monitoring and enforcing these agreements was
important in improving the managerial/operational capabilities of the shipping
firms.
7/   Known as the Intergovernmental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO)
until 1981. The delay in che appointment of the advisor significantly
hampered PANN's early subloan appraisals.



-8-
3.05      The overall realization of the physical targets of the project is as
follows:
Appraisal estimate             Realization              Funding
Ships   Tonnage         Ships        Tonnage          source
(dwt)                       (dwt)
1.  Rehabilitation        -     54,500            4 CC        6,335          IBRD
2.  Used ships           47      54,500          26 CC       63,042          IBRD
1 P a/     6,139 CRT       IBRD
7 CC       7,541           BAPINDO
1 BC      14,480           BAPINDO
2 CC b/    3,105           P.T. PANN
3.  New ships            47      50,250          20 CC       26,400          Norway
9 CC        7,350          BAPINDO
4.  Scrapping             -      70,000           -          very little, if any
Note:  CC = general cargo vessel; BC = bulk carrier; P = passenger vessel.
a/ The only passenger ship procured under the project, MV Tampomas II (ex MV
Great Emerald), sunk in January 1981, and insurance payment for the ship was
utilized by PANN for financing three additional ships:
- NV Niaga 40 (Trans Tarraco) 2684 dwt for PT Pelumin
- MV Karunia (West Cliff) 2966 dwt for PT Nusa Tenggara
- MV Niaga 43 (Kozan) 3255 dwt for PT Sulita Lines
b/ Two ships were purchased by PT PANN from its own resources:
- MV Berkah (1170 dwt) for PT Abadi Inti Lines, and
- MV Ostenburg (1835 dwt) for PT Nusa Tenggara.



The Bank loan was used as follows (grouping according to Bank records):
Ap,.raisal        Amount
Category                                        estimate /a      disbursed
1. Repair and re-equIpment of Indonesian ships            7.3               1.2
2. Acquisition of used ships outside Indonesia           38.1              41.2
3. Delivery cost of new ships                             4.8               3.7
4. Services of consultants and experts                    2.8               7.9/b
5. Equipment for maritime officers' training
facilities                                          1.0               -
54.0             54.0
/a   Includes contingencies.
7i   Includes funding of components of the Maritime Sector Development Program
(MSDP).
As can be seen from the two tables, while the outcome of the whole project was
substantially different from what had been planned, the Bank's loan was used
relatively close to original intentions.
3.06      Rehabilitation.  P.T. Pann financed the rehabilitation of only four
ships, all for one owner. Total amount expended on this was less than 20Z of
what was planned. The main reasons for this were:
-    The financing procedures (through PANN) were too complicated, and
there was little financial incentive for ship owners to undertake
rehabilitation.
-    Safety regulations were not enforced, making rehabilitation not
really necessary.
3.07      Used ships.  PANN acquired 37 used ships under the project, 27 of
them with the Bank loan (29 including the ships from the insurance
proceeds). About 25% more funds than planned were required to procure them.
One ship was sold to PELNI; the others were leased or sold to 20 private
companies (17 of them benefitted from the Bank loan).
3.08      The demand for used ships was slow at the beginning of the
project.  As safety regulations were not enforced, very little scrapping of
old ships occurred.  Consequently, excess tonnage of old, unseaworthy vessels
persisted. The situation was further aggravated by the Government's route and
rate-setting policies, which contributed significantly to the poor financial
situation of most shipping companies. Only after a 50Z devaluation of the
rupiah were rates increased by 20%. This, and a general upturn in economic
activity, increased demand for more efficient ships by 1979. Since then,



- 10 -
used-ship procurement has proceeded rapidly and abov $10 million more than
originally earmarked was utilized for this purpose.-
3.09      New ships.  The 20 Norwegian-built ships arrived in Indonesia during
1977. PANN was to acquire them and lease or sell them to PELNI and other
shipping companies. However, as it became clear that the cost of these ships
would be about US$2,600 per dwt compared to about US$750 per dwt for used
ships, the private shipping companies showed no interest in the deal. As
PELNI also could not afford the ships at cost, the Covernment transferred them
from PANN to PELNI as equity. Subsequently PANN ceased the purchase of new
vessels.
3.10      The program to build Norwegian-financed ships in Indonesia took much
longer ro start because of the difficulties experienced by Indonesian ship-
yards in their construction.  Some ships were eventually built to order, but
as P.T. PANN was not directly involved, no figures are available about their
number, type and size. P.T. PANN, however, did finance the building of nine
general cargo vessels (three of 750 dwt each, six of 950 dwt each) outside the
project, for the State shipping line, P.T. PELNI. Funds for this came from a
Rp 3 billion loan from BAPINDO and from P.T. PANN's own resources. (One of
the vessels capsized during launch and was repaired by the yard at its own
expense).
B. Scrapping
3.11      Very little scrapping was done.  Scrapping in the RLS fleet was
caused mainly by casualties and the wasting away of the structures of very old
ships. In 1977 and 1978 repeated discussions with COI failed to lead to any
satisfactory solution to the attainment of agreed scrapping targets. The
growth of interisland trade in 1979 and 1980 and the realization that GOI, for
noneconomic reasons, was not likely to undertake proper safety enforcement
procedures, caused the Bank to cease attempts to induce scrapping.
C.  Safety
3.12      Norway had been expected to finance experts to revise and modernize
Indonesia's shipping safety rules. However, the Government appointed person-
nel from the Technical Institute of Bandung to do this work. The Bank sub-
mitted their report to IMO for comments. Based on a sample of translations of
various sections of the report, IMO informed the Bank that the revision
appeared to be acceptable. However, the revised safety rules, which were
published, were not promulgated by the Government. The old, unsatisfactory
rules and procedures continued to prevail.
3.13      This unsatisfactory situation continued until after the loss by fire
of the passenger-vehicle ferry MV Tampomas II, which had been financed under
the project. Casualties were substantial and it is believed that some 400-600
8/   Several reallocations of loan proceeds by category were carried out in
response to the changed demands for shipping finance.



- 11 -
people perished. Following this tragedy the Bank requested that an immediate
improvement in ship safety be instituted. The Government responded by acting
on a special report prepared by IMO and by expa ing the provision for safety
training and practices in the Indonesian fleet.-   Only continued attention to
this matter will preserve any gains made in the field of ship safety.
D. Technical Assistance
3.14      The Bank's technical assistance involved continuing financing of two
financial and technical advisors for BAPINDO. In the early years of the
project they assisted BAPINDO in developing its ability to appraise projects
for international shipping, ship repair and shipbuilding. The advisors' con-
tracts were twice extended and they finished their work in 1980. They have
since been involved in other aspects of the project as consultants. In addi-
tion the Bank financed a management consultant study of PELNI. The study was
done in two parts and has provided the basis for the Covernment and the
company to learn of problems and possible solutions. The report made a number
of proposals for technical, operational, organizational, and financial
improvements which are under discussion. The consultants estimated that PELNI
could become profitable if their recommendations were carried out, a view with
which the Bank agreed.
3.15      A Dutch team of shipping advisors were financed from the Bank loan
after the Netherlands altered its policy of assistance and withdrew financial
support.  The team produced a comprehensive economic, statistical, and
financial report, the recommendations of which provides the basis for the
proposed National Ports Project, now under appraisal.
3.16      The largest item of Bank support for technical assistance in the
project was for the improvement of the maritime training academies through
training the staff of three academies. IMO undertook this training, and
training equipment was selected on the basis of the findings of a UNDP
financed reconnaissance mission. Because of contractual problems between IMO
and the Government, the start of this was delayed substantially, necessitating
extending the loan closing date. Later the technical assistance was expanded
to cover additional safety training.
3.17      Funds were also provided from the loan to assist in the design of a
specialized inter-island collier, to be financed by PANN, under a coal trans-
port and mining project.
9/   A Maritime Court in Indonesia also reported on the matter.



- 12 -
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. P.T. Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (P.T. PANN)
4.01      P.T. PANN's purpose was to acquire new and used ships and make them
available to shipping companies through leases or hire-purchase/installment
sales. This fleet development program was financed from GOI funds, the Bank
loan, loans and grants from Norway, Japan and other sources, and from PANN's
internalLy generated funds. P.T. PANN has fulfilled this objective quite
-deli. The following shows its overall activities till the middle of 1983 (new
and rehabilitated vessels):
-    Shipping lines reached  :           21 (out of 51 RLS lines)
private                        20
State owned (PELNI)            I
-    Ships procured            :         73
General cargo                  71 (about 338,000 DWT)/a
Passenger                      1 (6,139 CRT), and
Bulk carrier        :            (14,t80 DWT).
/a   Includes the vessels procured with insurance proceeds.
This program covered about 30Z of the entire RLS tonnage, and about one fourth
of the RLS routes. It is also noteworthy that many of these ships serve the
eastern part of the archipelago which traditionally was not served as well as
the economically stronger western part.
4.02      P. T. PANN has performed well financially (See Annex l, Tables 3
and 4, for Financial Statements). It has quickly overcome the normal "start-
up" problems that most new entities experience, and was able to achieve modest
profits from the beginning. Only in one early year (1978) did PANN incur a
small loss from operations. This was because P.T. PANN's organizational
structure and staffing were established in the expectation of a rapidly
growing level of activity, in particular of leasing. However, this antici-
pated level of business did not materialize partly because of external forces
that reduced the incentive for rehabilitation or acquisition of secondhand
ships, and partly because of PANN's initial preoccupation with new ships.
When the Government subsequently transferred the new Norwegian built and
financed ships to P.T. PELNI, PANN found itself overstaffed and "overgrown".
This situation was dealt with competently, and from then on P.T. PANN's
financial performance improved steadily. This improvement was also aided by
changed market conditions which created a demand for secondhand ships and a
broadening of the scope of the project to include ships other than general
cargo RLS vessels.
4.03      The following compares, in financial terms, P.T. PANN's actual
performance with appraisal estimates (in Rp billion):



- 13 -
Operating revenues               1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
(1)  Actual total                0.3    0.6   0.9   1.3   2.9   3.8   4.4
(2) Appraisal estimate
(3)    from new ships                   3.0   6.8   7.1   7.1   7.1   7.1
(4)    other than new ships    0.9    2.4   3.4   3.8   4.1   4.1   3.9
(5)     Forecast total          0.9    5.4  10.2  10.9  11.2  11.2  11.0
Actual operating revenues came from leasing and instalment sales of rehabil-
itated and newly acquired used ships.  PANN never received any revenues from
the new ships operated by PELNI even during the years they were on PANN's
books, but PANN also was not required to pay interest on them.  (PANN's only
costs were administrative and staffing costs as mentioned above.) As can be
seen, actual revenues (1) compare favorabLy with the expected revenues other
than from new ships (4).  After the slow start with used vessels, the activi-
ties increased rapidly as market conditions and institutional scope changed.
Business with new ships never materialized because their cost - whether
imported or produced locally - was far too high for the Indonesian interisland
shipping system to support.
Administration
4.04      P.T. PANN's good financial performance is also a reflection of the
quality of its staff and operating procedures. Senior management is familiar
with all aspects of the sector and has expertise in lending to the sector.
Staff are competent and well trained, and were assisted initially by project-
financed advisors and training. The operating procedures and policies were
developed with close Bank involvement, and are adequate, as is the accounting
system.
4.05      As was intended at its creation, P.T. PANN was able to deal with
shipping firms that were smaller and financially weaker than those eligible
for BAPINDD loans. Subloan supervision was performed adequately, with respect
to the subborrowers' shipping operations as weli as financial performance.
P.T. PANN generally was able to collect payments due on time and, as can be
seen from Annex II-a, by the end of 1982 most subloans were current.
4.06      The downturn in the Indonesian economy, however, caught up with P.T.
PANN during 1983; the excess tonnage problem that had never been corrected,
and was masked by the boom of the late 70s and early 80s, surfaced again:
-    The demand for PANN's-services, i.e., for additional used tonnage,
plummetted.



- 14 -
-    Subborrowers ran into severe financial problems makinR ;t difficult
for PANN to collect.  PANN  estimated that at times    .ng 1983
arrears reached about half of yearly obligations.
P.T. PANN is dealing with this situation expeditiously. It has repossessed
eight vessels (after obtaining court decrees) and released five and sold three
on installment terms to stronger shipping lines, of which four were new
clients for P.T. PANN. The terms on these release/resale deals were hardened
to provide P.T. PANN with substantially higher cash flow (and concordant
security) over the early years of the Life of the contract.
4.07      P.T. PANN was prevented by instructions from the Ministry of Finance
from taking similar action against P.T. PELNI. As a result, P.T. PELNI's
arrears have grown and account for almost half of the total arrears. This
matter is under review and several schemes for settlement are being dis-
cussed. It appears most likely that the nine ships leased to PELNI (see para.
3.10) will be taken off PANN's books and converted into PELNI equity. In the
process P.T. PANN would have to take a sizable loss.
Future
4.08      All external sources of funds for P.T. PANN have been used or have
been committed. However, resulting from its current operations and the
changed terms on new contracts, P.T. PANN is highly liquid and will be able to
ride out the economic crisis - if it does not last too long. Without new
external funds, it can stay in business for many more years as payments from
subborrowers, comprising interest and capital, would be sufficient for it to
repay its debts, and carry on limited operations on a gradually diminishing
scale. In this sense, P.T. PANN could function purely as a financial inter-
mediary till all loans were paid off, and then go out of business. But con-
sidering the need for an institution to deal with the smaller shipping
companies, and P.T. PANN's success in this role, it is important that ways and
means be found to ensure that it can continue to assist in the future develop-
ment of the shipping sector.
B. Shipping Lines
4.09      Financial summaries for those shipping lines that had ships financed
with the Bank Loan appear in Annex 3. The first 13 (of 14) pages describe the
private firms, and the last page the State-owned line P.T. PELNI.
(i) Private Shipping Lines
4.10      Most of the private shipping lines are relatively small operators.
Many would not have qualified for the more rigorous lending conditions of
BAPINDO, and some barely qualified for doing business with P.T. PANN. How-
ever, over the years, and particularly between 1979 and about 1981 when demand
fur -hipping services picked up, and to some extent because of P.T. PANN's
management assistance, most operators improved their operations and financial
condition. As can be seen from Annex 2-a, by the end of 1982, most operators
showed improving trends in income, and most were current with their payments
to P.T. PANN. Considering that most of the vessels procured under the project



- 15 -
produced an operating profit (although generally not as high as anticipated at
appraisal, see Annex 4), the firms benefitted from their participation in the
project. Had they not acquired vessels under the project, their financial
performance would have been worse. (It is not possible to estimate how much
worse, given the amount and type of data available.)
4.11      Despite these "successes" the overall performance of the shipping
sector could have been better. However, as pointed out earlier, the sector is
caught in a web of regulations and practices that prevent the emergence of
strong, efficient, shipping lines. These problems are being addressed under
the proposed Ports Project. For example, the licensing of routes not only to
companies but to specific vessels has created inefficiencies and financial
problems in the past. Agreement has now been reached that future route
licenses will not specify ships to be used, but will be based on minimum
frequency of port calls and minimum transport capacity of the licensed
shipping firm. Although this change appears small, it will have a significant
and beneficial impact on the shipping sector.
4.12      During 1983 the situation in the sector took a sharp turn for the
worse. Declining demand for shipping services, overcapacity and sharp
discounting have brought many firms to the brink of bankruptcy. Consequently
many were no longer able to make payments to PANN, and their obligations had
to be restruciured. P.T. PANN also had to repossess eight ships from lines
where no improvement could be expected. It is clear that as long as the root
problems (excess tonnage and inefficiency) persist, many shipping companies
will remain in difficult financial/operational condition.
(ii) P.T. PELNI (State Shipping Line)
4.13      P.T. PELNI is by far the largest shipping company in the domestic
regular liner service, with a market share of about 15% in 1983. At the time
of the appraisal of the project it was estimated that PELNI would incur losses
on its shipping operations which would be partiaLly offset by profits from its
terminal and agency operations. Overall, consolidated cumulative losses
during 1974 to 1979 were forecast at about Rp 6.9 billion. In preparing this
forecast it was assumed that PELNI would be liable for the capital cost of any
additions to its fleet. As it turned out, most of the fleet addition, in
particular the 20 new ships built in Norway, were given to PELNI as equity
(paras. 3.09 and 3.10) requiring no debt service. Despite this, the actual
losses of PELNI over this period were almost Rp 10 billion, and were running
lately at a rate of about Rp 5 billion per year. All of the losses were due,
as anticipated, to its shipping operations.
4.14      PELNI pa'rticipated in the project only marginally as the Norwegian
ships were transferred from PANN to PELNI as equity. Later, however, P.T.
PANN financed the bulding of nine small general cargo vessels in Indonesian
shipyards, and leased them to PELNI. PELNI now maintains that it cannot make
any money on them in the present economic environment, largely because "of the
high lease payments" to PANN, and has been refusing to pay the lease
obligations. Because the vessels are not well suited to the current shipping
environment and are also in unsatisfactory operating condition, no market
exists for re-leasing or selling them to stronger firms. The matter is being
reviewed with the Government (see para. 4.07).



- 16 -
4.15      Summarizing, it is unclear whether P.T. PELNI is better off or not
as a result of the project. Unfortunately, PELNI's problems are largely due
to its status as a State-owned corporation, and are not really amenable to
narrow analysis relating to a small part (i.e., a few vessels) of its
operations. A brief description of its corporate status and problems is given
in paras. 6.06 and 6.07.



- 17 -
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
5.01      At appraisal, the benefits of the project were expected to arise
from (i) reduced ship operating costs, (ii) increased ship productivity and
(iii) increased economic activity catered to by the additional shipping
capacity provided under the project. Benefits under (i) and (ii) were
expected to arise from rehabilitation and purchase of used ships. Benefits
under (iii) would accrue solely from purchase of new ships.
5.02      To evaluate the economic return, alternative traffic growth
scenarios were considered, but the crucial assumption related to a Froduc-
tivity increase to at least 15 tons of cargo per dwt of shipping per year
following the project. (Actual traffic growth and productivity are compared
with appraisal scenarios in Annex 5-a). This indicates that while traffic
growth up to 1979 averaged 10% p.a., there were declines in 1980 and 1981
which are slowly being reversed. Further, capacity utilization has been
considerably less than expected. Also, a comparison of operating costs for
rehabilitated and purchased used ships with similar unrehabilitated ships does
not show any significant difference. Nevertheless, a safe and reasonable
assumption would be that, if the rehabilitated ships had remained unrehabili-
tated, then operating costs would have gone up. For re-evaLuation it is
assumed that the appraisal estimate in this respect could be used, with
appropriate adjustment for inflation. However, there has been no increase in
productivity and consequently the anticipated benefit from this has not
materialized.
5.03      As regards new ships to cater to new economic activity, only 20 of
the 47 ships planned were bought (nine were built locally later). Even these,
however, were probably superfluous as the ship scrapping program never got
under way and consequently capacity utilization on the whole actually fell
during the period.
5.04      The operating cost saving from the rehabilitation of four used ships
is estimated at Rp 14,000 a year in 1976 prices, or Rp 42,000 in current
values, per dwt. The total saving on this account could thus be estimated at
Rp 266 million per year, yielding a return of 352 on the investment. The pur-
chase of used ships in good condition could be estimated to yield comparable
operating cost savings estimated at Rp 2,650 million yearly, for a return of
7%. The rehabilitation of old ships and the purchase of used ships in good
condition give an average weighted return of 8%, compared with the appraisal
estimate of 19%.
5.05        No economic return for the purchase of new ships could be
estimated as cheir utilization is reportedly very low and the cost per dwt per
operating day, therefore, very high. If one assumes that the return on this
part of the project is 0, the overall weighted return on the whole project
would be 7%. This compat-q with the appraisal estimate of 18%. Actually, but
for the modifications in the project involving reduction in the volume of new
shipping bought, the return would have been even lower.



- 18 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Government
6.01      The single most important factor influencing the condition of
Indonesia's maritime transport system is the Directorate Ceneral of Seacom-
munications (SEACOM) of the Ministry of Communications, as it is responsible
for virtually all aspects of the system. Of particular relevance to this
project are SEACOM's:
-    route licensing procedures;
-    setting of (freight) rates;
-    enforcement of ship safety and seaworthiness regulations; and
-    overaLl planning for the system.
Each of those four activities has a significant impact on the efficiency of
the system. SEACOM has received technical assistance under this and previous
projects, and from bilateral sources, and is gradually improving its opera-
tions. The Ports Project currently being appraised will assist further in
strengthening its organization and capabilities.
6.02      Of the four points mentioned above, the project specifically
addressed only ship safety regulations, enforcement of which would have
created a demand for rehabilitation/replacement of the ageing fleet. The
Bank, however, was unable to convince the Government of the need for enforce-
ment of safety regulations, and only the sinking of the M. V. Tampomas II with
heavy loss of life, brought attention to this matter. Since then a program
for ship inspection and seaworthiness certification has been prepared and is
beginning to be implemented.
6.03      The Indonesian Ship Classification Society (BKI, the Bureau
Klasificasi Indonesia), received substantial technical assistance from the
German Classification Society, Germanischer Lloyd.  BKI has becume a fully
competent organization, to the extent that dual-classification was waived in
1978.
P. T. Pengembangan Armada Viaga Nasional (P. T. PANN) and Shipping Lines
6.04      As pointed out in Chapter IV., P. T. PANN has fulfilled its role
quite well. It has dealt (reLatively) effectively with most shipping lines,
from appraisal through supervision of a subloan. The development agreements
between PANN and shipping lines were designed not only to ensure satisfactory
operations and financial performance of the appraised vessel, but also to
upgrade and strengthen the shipping lines' managerial and operational
capabilities. A standardized format identifying 44 covenants was used, from
which relevant covenants were selected as applicable to the particular
situation of each shipping line. Compliance by the shipping lines over the
project period was monitored extensively by P. T. PANN, and was generally
good. During supervision missions the Bank also monitored compliance with the
applicable covenants.



- 19 -
6.05       P. T. PANN has received technical assistance in financial matters
(see para. 3.12), and some of this expertise was passed on to shipping
companies by the financial advisor to PANN and by PANN staff. Although this
benefitted the shipping companies greatly, much more needs to be done. In
particular, the quality of the shipping Lines' financial procedures (account-
ing, reporting, planning) should be improved further. To achieve this, P. T.
PANN should exert the same strong supervisory influence on financial matters,
as it does on operacional matters.
6.06      The State-owned shipping line, P. T. PELNI, remains a problem.
Despite almost continuous technical assistance and studies resulting in
several recovery plans during this and the First Shipping Project, PELNI's
operating p-erformance is substandard, its finances are in shambles, and an
early turnaround cannot realistically be expected. Some attempts to improve
the situation have been made very recently under the leadership of a highly
competent President Director (in the context of a new concern with Indonesia's
maritime sector). Whether this, and further planned measures, will be suffi-
cient for an eventual recovery is too early to evaluate 't this time (see also
paras. 4.13-4.15).
6.07      As PELNI is owned by the Government, its managerial and operational
flexibility is severely limited.  PELNI has to serve many routes that are not
economically viable but must be maintained for national economic and socio-
political reasons. Furthermore, because of the Government's procurement
policiea, PELNI has been forced to operate a fleet that is not always suited
to the requirements of its market.  Typical examples of this are the recently
acquired, very expensive, passenger vessels from Germany which PELNI received
from the Government as equity contribution. The first ship already delivered
(out of four) is creating cash losses on every journey. In other words,
working expenses, even before counting depreciation, exceed operating
revenues. On top of this the Government pays for the tull debt service.
6.08      P.T. PELNI is working on a corporate plan for the second half of the
1980s and beyond. This plan is based on the mandate that by 1990 "PELNI shall
carry 35% of total RLS cargo", and the assumption that the Government will
devise policies accordingly. As these envisioned policies (stronger regula-
tion of the shipping sector, limiting of competition, capital allocation in
favor of PELNI) would run counter to the Government's movement towards freer
markets and commercialization of the maritime sector, it appears that PELNI's
plan may not be realistic. To provide guidance to both PELNI and other
participants in the shipping sector, it is necessary that the Government
provides signals that are consistent and not in conflict with each other.
Shipyards
6.09      Only folir vessels were rehabilitated under the project, and none
were built in Indcnesian yards. The impact of the project on the yards was
minimal. During the first years of this project, however, shipyards partici-
pated in the First Shipping Project, with varying success, as detailed in the
PCR for that project.



- 20 -
VII. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
7.01      In a broader context, the Bank did not accompLish alL it set out to
under this project. Specifically the Bank was unsuccessful in getting the
Government to enforce safety and seaworthiness regulations. This not only
contributed to heavy loss of life but also to a substantially lower than
expected demand for the upgrading of the fleet. Since at that time no con-
sensuo existed in Indonesia for such enforcement leading to scrapping of
ships, the Bank was unable to enforce the relevant loan covenants. It is even
doubtful that cancelling the loan would have led to any significant change in
the Government's attitude towards this problem. The Bank, by pressing this
point, did, however, contribute towards consensus building, and the matter
forms an important part of the HSDP.
7.02      The Bank played, however, a useful role in assisting the Government
to improve the condition and efficiency of the maritime transport system. The
project, narrowly defined, was a success:
-    It has contributed to the upgrading of the Indonesian RLS fleet;
-    it has succeeded in the development and strengthening of a new
financing source for shipping; and
-    technical assistance and studies have contributed to the strengthen-
ing of institutions and improved sector knowledge that forms the
basis of further activities in the sector, including future Bank
projects.
7.03      The most important role of the Bank may, however, be that it
contributed to a greater awareness among all interested parties of the
problems to be resolved in ensuring an efficient maritime transport system in
Indonesia. In the context ?6,this and the previous shipping project and the
Tanjung Priok Port Project,-  the Bank, supported by several studies, has
continuously drawn attention to the problems of the sector, and has urged the
Government to address them in a systeratic way. It appears that a consensus
for a revamping of the sector has recently emerged. and the Government and
other entities involved are ncw serious about implementing it, as evidenced by
the development of the Maritime Sector Development Program and many actions
addressing virtually all aspects of the sector.
10/ Loan 1337-IND, approved November 1976 and closed December 31, 1983.



- 21 -
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      The project has clearly shown the intricacies of the Indonesian
maritme sector and the forces governing it. Indonesia is a huge country with
a long tradition in seafaring. The sector's modus operandi has deveLoped over
the centuries and during times when changes (technological, commercial) were
minimal. But the recent rapid changes in the sector worldwide have a strong
and immediate impact on the Indonesian maritime system. It will be a
continuing challenge for the Indonesian Government, and the Bank, to identify
those measures which will lead to steady movement of the sector towards modern
techniques and principles, although they may be politically sensitive and,
therefore, difficult to implement. The MSDP is promising start in this
direction.
8.02      The course and eventual conclusion of the project clearly indicate
that Bank Group involvement in shipping projects of this type should be
considered only after a thorough evaluation of all factors involved, and only
if the Government's commitment to the policy objectives, involving difficult
political decisions, is forthcoming.



- 22 -
5   aN  IQORr ~         ~ ~ UE 
S3 HEY 8IPFla  CLAN 1250-DID)
P.T. Pugrwdn Azida Mmam  Neraml (P.T. PM)
1lm  Utewts. 1976-82
1976   1977   1978   1979   190D  1981   1982
AJts
Mat
CAsh & serities                         769    692    862    922  3,3B1  8,880  7,595
raceivabim frOM entAl 6
itauellnt mans                       232    498  1,098    947  1,077   1,086  2,388
Prepaid eq quu, m advanea & nine         9    157       85    563    414    619  1,100
Total  irrent Aets               1.010  1I347  2,045  2.431  4.872  10. S5  11093
tang-tsam   c divable  an iiutaLUimt
dsaa                                  1,160  1,149  1,764  2,699  5,455   1,489   1,170
Fied
Ships m l                             1,231   5,731  8,316  13,148  19,763 25,548  33,157
WMpsbeling takanacou                    /a      /A      /a  1,801    985   1,175       -
NmegLmn vmels for UE=                   -   5,58  28,658               -      -       -
Ocler                                   66      75      76     86    102    124    151
Sdbtotal                         1.297  11,334  37,050  1503  20.850 26,847  3
LAss: aCCdilated deprecIatiOn           176    441    875  1,513  2,917  4,917  7,151
Aid: veaels under consuttion         12,199  19,853  2,486      -      -       -       -
Total hutd Aas                  13.320 30 746 38.661  13522 17_933 21 930 26.157
Other                                      74     17      40      -       -      -       -
Toal Asets                      15,564 33,259 42.510  18,652 28.260 34,004 39.010
Liabilities & Eduity
aet ntablties
Acctxmt payable                         40    190       47    170      83     69      36
Oirrent porEti  Of1D                   434    590    813    816    442   1,912   1,954
ames b few payable                       10    534  1,024    456  1,265   1,210  1,917
Odher                                    -       -      -    108    238    180    262
Total Qirrent Liabilities          484  1314  1,884  1,550  2,028  3,371   4,169
Deferrd interest on istallment sales      137     98    318    637    575    410    596
Lang-term Liabilities
AMm                                   1,238   3,341  4,580  6,752  10,909  12,057  12,827
Projwet aid from Norwy                7,660 22,683 28,658       -      -       -       -
Total Irg Term                  986   26.02s 33,238  6,752  10.909  12.057  12.82
Faid in & gJerment                    5,026  5,782  7,020  9,635  14,292  17,295  19,902
Retind earniu,p                         49      41      53     77    456    871  1,521
Total Equity                     5,075  5 8.   7,073  9.712  14,748  18.166 21.423
Total Liablities & E ty         154 33259 42.510 18.652 28.260 34.004 39.010
/a  Iwai   in ships on lease.
Sourcs: Supesion Peports, P.T. Pam.



- 23 -
ANNEX lb
INDONESIA
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
P.T. Pengembangan Armada Nliaga Nasional (P.T. Pann)
Income Statements, 1976-5Z
TRp million)
1976  1977  1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Revenues
Interest on installments           128     99    82      94    329    211    126
Rental income                     202    517   837  1,225  2,565  3,572  4,337
Total                        330    616   919  1,319  2,894  3.783  4.463
Operating Expenses
Business expenses                   22     51    88      87    174    316    390
General & administration          215    253   420    283    351    363    653
Depreciation of ships on lease  123    251   420    644  1,393  1,985  2,426
Total                        360    555   928  1.014  1,918  2,664  3,469
Profit (loss) from operations        (30)    61    (9)   305    976  1,119    994
Other Income
Interest (bank, securities)         11     12    16      64     51    773  1,194
Late payment penalty                11     58   123    225    175       13      42
Taking ships across                  -    108   196    167    133    222    324
Foreign exchange profit             -       -   202      27      13     75    372
Commitment fee                       -     14    20      56      89     58      96
Miscellaneous                      110      -      -     10      88     30      90
Total                        132    192   557    549    549  1,171  2,118
Other Expenses
Project supervision                 36     29    18      18       9     /a      /a
Interest                           27    215   436    758    992  1,5ZW  1,609
Reserve for unpaid penalty
charges                           -       -    76      44     15      /a      /a
Miscellaneous                        9      1     -       3       5     3z,    IT
Total                         72    245   530    823  1,020  1,574  1,722
Correction to previous years           -      -      -      -       -    142      -
Net Income (Loss) Before Tax          30      8    18      31    504    858  1,390
Corporate tax (theoretical)            -      -      -      7    164    324    563
After Tax Profit                       -      -      -     24    340    534    872
/a Included in miscellaneous.
Source: Supervision reports, P.T. Pann.



INDONESIA
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (WAN 1250-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION 3ORT
Subloan Record - Operators
Trend ln      Net Incomef       Lease/rentl
Eatablished   No. of ships  Positive operating   operating        porltlve/        lnstaUmnt          Eatimeted'arreare s
firm or new     obtained       income of firm       lncome           trend     Ragu-  Some   Spore-  Z of *othly payJut
Name of operators         firm (t or N)  through PANN         (wvbn)         I    S    D    I    S    D  larly  delay   dic         obligatlon (7)
F.T. EJa                        8               2       1977,78,79,80        -    x    -    -          -    -              x             1,005.5
P.T. Heratus                    8               2       Up to now            x    -    -    -    x    -    x        -      -                 0.0
P.T. Panurji.n                  5               2       Up to now            x    -    -    -    -    -    z        -      -                 0.0
P.T. Iol                        8               6       Up to *iddle 1981   -    -    x    -    -    -    -         -      x             1,868.0
P.T. Tanjung                                    1       Up to siddle 198Z   -    x    -    -    -    -    -         x      -               450.3
P.T. Numa Tenggara              8               3       Up to now            x    -    -    -    X    -    x        -      -                 3.0
P.T. Kalimntan                  3               3       Up to now            z    -               -                 -      -                91.0
P.T. Abadi Intl Line                            I       Up to now            x    -    -    -          -            -      -                 0.0
P.T. MPN                        e               2       Up to middle 1982   -    x    -    -    x    -    -         x      -               330.0
P.T. Srlvijaya                  K               3       Up to now            z    - -        x              x       -      -                 0.0
P.T. haharl                     8               2       Up to now            x    -    -    -    -    -    x        -      -                 0.1
P.T. PRI                        a               2       Up to mlddle 1982   -    x    -    x    -    -    -         x      -               141.7
P.T. W sesaLine                 8               1       Up to now            -         x     -    x    -    -       x      -               283,0
P.T. P1 U I
Total                                    30



INDONESIA
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-I!;D)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SLuary Sublosn Record - Vessels
Intallment
Month/year                           Arquisition             Month/year   Lase/rental   payments on
of pur-                            price includ-   Sold    of vessel   income from    installment            Arrears/
Subloan                                                chase by      Year    Mlt/type    Ing delivery        or     delivery    ship (yearly  sale  (yearly         curreut
nuber   Ship's name                Operator's name       PANN        built   of vessel    costs (US$)   leased  to operator  aoant (tp)             mt (Mp)         status
2.1.1    Hv. Geziena (Ni.17)       PT Eja              Oct 1977      1967    1,650/cargo  1,160,987.25         L    Feb 1978        89,2S6.000              -        et   delsy
2.1.2    Mv. Bilbao (N1.24)        PT Eja              May 1979      1969    2,780/cargo  1,577,515.35        L     Dec 1979       169,934,000              -      Cret delay
2.2.1    Hv. Komodo VI (WI.19)   PT Heratue            Feb 1978      1974    2,044/cargo  1,100,000.00         S    Jul 1978                 -   69,967,236.16   Current
2.2.2    Mv. Sevilla (N1.29)       PT Maratus          Dec 1979      1970    2,353/cargo  1,526,060.46        L    Jul 1980        170,724,000              -      Current
2.3.1    Kv. Nina Sewa (NL.20)   PT Panurj.an          Jul 1978      1974    2,620/cargo  1,519,722.40        L    Nov 1978        123,252,000              -      Current
2.1.2    1v. Pep Ocean (Ni.26)   PT Panur)aan          Jul 1979      1971    2,660/cargo  1,510,634.04         L    Dec 1979       168,792,000               -     Current
2.4.1    Mv. Fryaland (Ni,18)    PT lol                Mar 1978      1967    1,925/ergo  1,649,692.81         S    Jun 1978                 -   74,066,771.66   Great delay
2.4.2    Mv. Peter H. (MI.28)    PT Iol                Dec 1978      1974    2,860/cargo  1,655,607.18        L      Apr 1980      185,508,000              -      Great delay
2.5.1    Mv. Yoei Nsru (Ni.27)   PT Tanjung            Aug 1979      1974    1,700/cargo    885,738.00        L    Jan 1980         97,488.000              -      Some delay
2.6.1    Mv. Dorthe Ty (Ni.25)   PT Nusa Tenggara  Jul 1979          1969    2,220/cargo    997,285.99        L    Dec 1979        115,932.O0               -      Current
2.6.2    Hv. Measplein (1i.33)   PT Nusa Tenggara  Nov 1980          1970    2,520/cargo  1,407,324.88         L    mar 1981       162,996.000               -      ur,rent
2.6.3    Kv. Multon (N1.34)        PT Nusa Tenggara  Nov 1980        1971    2,690/cargo  1,414,154.60         L    ray 1981       163,476,000              -      Cutrreot     ,
2.8.1    Mv. Polaris (11.21)       PT Kalimantan       Jun 1979      1972    1,300/cargo  1,240,000.00        L     Dec 1979       135,168.000              -      GCrrent
2.8.2    Hv. Aequator (Ni.22)    PT Kalimantan         Jun 1979      1972    1,300/cargo  1,320,000.00         L    Dec 1979       143,868,000                     Current
2.6.3    Hv. Zulital (Ni.42)       PT Kalimantan       Apr 1982      1972    2,900/cargo  1,758,928.47         L    Nov 1982       193,968,000              -      Soae delay
2,9.1    Mv. Ankara (Ni.23)        PT Abadt Inti       Oct 1978      968     2,388/cargo  1,250,000.00         S    Dec 1978                 -  127,466,067.28   O  tim
2.10.1   Mv. Pep Nautic (11.30)  PT MPH                Feb 1980      1973    1,385/cargo  1,431,000.00        L    Aug 1980         18,376,000              -      Sowe day
2.10.2   Mv. Pia Sanved (Mi.45)  PT MPM                Jun 1982      1976    2,671/cargo  2,339,180.00        L     Nov 1942       264,912,000              -      Sow delay
2.11.1   Mv. Westwal (Ni.38)       PT Srivajaya        Jun 1981      1973    2,968/cargo  1,745,974.18        L     Dec 1981       202,020,000               -     Currect
2.11.2   Mv. Xarlsburg (Ni.37)   PT Sriwajaya          Jul 1981      1971    3,125/cargo  1,825,733.91        L     Feb 1982       192,624,000              -      Current
2.11.3   Mv. Mira (Ni.41)          PT Srivajaya        Apr 1982      1974    2,023/cargo  1,956,669.17        L    Aug 1982        264,912.000              -      Current
2.12.1   Mv. Prinsenwal (N1.31)  PT Bahari             May 1980      1971    2,854/cargo  1,586,510.61         L    Jan 1981       178,812,000              -      Cnrrent
2.12.2   Mv. Noordial (Ni.32)    PT Bahari             May 1980      1970    2,860/cargo  1,528,748.17        L     Dec 19B0       170,730.000              -      Curremt
2.13.1   Mv. Great Emerald         PT PELNI            May 1980      1971    6,139/pass.  5,800,000.00         S    Jan 1981                 -              -      Total loss
2.15.1   Mv. Beni Sale. (Ni.36)  PT PRI                Jan 1981      1971    3,539/cargo  1,473,433.67        L    Hay 1981        168,276,000              -      Sm  delay
2.15.2   Mv. B. Faraigh (N1.35)  PT PRI                Jan 1981      1971    2,539/cargo  1,473,433.68        L    Jun 1981        168,660.000              -      Some delay
2.16.1   Mv. Wildswal (N1.39)    PT Wasesa             Sep 1981      1974    2,968/cargo  1,727,700.n0         L    May 1982       190,140,000              -      Some delay
Total Acquisitions                                                          44,862,034.82
1.4.1    Km. Deepa Maju            PT lol          Rehabilitated   1957         900/cargo )
1.4.2    Km. Deepa Hurni           PT Iol                            1957      900/cargo 11,213,494.00        L    Jan 1979        210,084,000              -
1.4.3    Km. Deeps Rays            PT 1ol                 '          1952    2,655/cargo I
1.4.4    Km. Deepa Subur           PT ll0                            1960    1,900/cargo                                                                                      x
Total Rehabilitations                                                        1,213,494.00
GRAND TOTAL                                                                46,075,528.82                         4,089,938.000  271,500,075.12



- 26 -
ANNEX 3
Page I-of 14
Financtal Summary
Name of firm. PT. E.J.A.
1978    1979    1980    1981               coment..
INCOME STATEMENT
N"venues:                                                    1. PT. EJA operates 3 PANN
Shipping              1,053   1,294   2,034                   ships:
Other                   156      150     235                  -  1m Nisga VII, from 1975
Total                 1720   T2,2 TM                             (Bapindo Loan) - Lease.
-  Km. Niaga XVII, from 1978
Operating Costs:                                                   (IBRD Loan) - Lease.
Shipping                709     848   1,459                   -  Km Niagu. XXIV, from 1979
Other                   103       94     141                     (IBRD Loan) - LAsee.
Total                   i       Ti   1La00
2. Before the Proeident
Groes profit:                                                   Director of PT. EJA died in
Shipping                344      446     575                  1978, this company was well
Other                    53       56      94                  managed, but after that, the
TT7      502     66                   company has been badly
managed. Consequently it
Admin. Expenses:          341      461     607                  could not fulfill the
payment obligation, to PT
Operating Profit           56       41      62                  PANN.
Other income (Exp.)        33    (19)    (16)                3. In 1982, after evaluating
the company as a whole, PT
Net Income Before Tax      89       22      46                  PANN agreed to reschedule
Tax                        36                                   the arreare until beginning
Net Income After Tax       53       t       ?                   of 1985.
4. Management is trying to get
BALANCE SHEET                                                     the company back to its
former performance.
Current Assets:
Cash                     16       24      74
other                   131      241     301
Total                   147      265     374
Fixed assets:
Vessels                 481      703     602
Other                    2'      42       46
Total                   501      745     648
Other Assets:              44       36      38
Total Assets              693   1,045   1.060
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing              23      40       42
Other                   119      127     148
Total                   142      168     190
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank                     53       70     204
Other                   192      182       -
Equity:
Paid-in Capital          10      250     250
P/L                     295      375     417
Total                   305      625     667
Total Liab. + Equity      693   1.045   1.060
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 14
Financial Sumasry
Name of flrm: PT. Mcratum
1978    1979    1980    1981                Comments:
INCOME STATEMENT
Revenues:                                                      1. PT. Meratue, operates 2 PANN
Shipping                                         1,821          ships:
Other                                              616          -  Niaga XVIII, from  1978
TotslT.W                                                           (IBRD Loan), purchase on
Inatallment.
Operating Costs:                                                  -  Niaga XXVI, from 1980
Shipping                                         1,384             (IBRD Loan) - Leae.
Other                                              547
Total                                            1,958       2. The comny it  one of the
best managed operatores.
Gross profit:
Shipping                                           437
Other                                               42
Total                                              79
Admn. Expenses:                                      562
Operating Profit                                     (83)
Other income (Exp.)                                    9
Net Income Before Tax                                (74)
Tax
Net Income After Tax
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                                                45
Other                                              264
Total                                              309
Fixed assets:
Vessels                                            834
Other                                              262
Total                                              572
Other Assets:                                        157
Total Assets                                       1,037
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borroving                                         42
Other                                               82
Total                                              124
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank                                               292
Other                                               24
Equity:
Paid-in Capital                                    154
P/L                                                443
Total                                              597
Total Liab. + Equity                               1,037
Source:  P.T. PANN.



- 28-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 14
Financial Summry
Name of firma PT. Penurjvan
1978    1979    1980    1981                 Cummunte
INCOHE STATEMENT
Revenues:                                                      1. PT. Panurivan, operates 4
Shipping                          922   1,199                   PANN ships::
Other                             113      132                  -  Niaga I, from 1979
TUtal                           1,03S         1,33 2                (Bapindo Loan), purchase
on Installment.
Operating CostEl                                                  -  Niaga II, from 1975
Shipping                       1,262   1,321                       (BDpindo Loan), purchase
Other                             125       57                     on installment
Total                           1,3ii   T1377                   -  Niaga XX, from 1978 (IBRD
Loan), lease.
Cross profit:                                                     -  Nlaga XXVI, from 1979
Shipping                        (341)   (122)                      (IBRD Loan). lease.
Other                             (12)      76
Total                            (353)    (T6)               2. In general, the company is
vell snaged.
Admin. Expenses:                     78      124
Operating Profit                   (431)   (170)
Other income (Exp.)                 (45)    107
Nte  Income Before Tax             (476)    (63)
Tax
Net Income After Tax
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                               69       61
Other                             313     342
Total                             382     4 04
Fixed assets:
Vessels                           590     569
Other                             108        6
Total                             699     375
Other Assets:                       176       91
Total Assets                      1.256   1,070
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing                      223      350
Other                            694      490
Total                             917     840
Long-Tern Liabilities:
Bank                             215      169
Other                               -       -
Equity:
Paid-In Capital                1,000   1,000
P/L                             (876)   (939)
Total                             124       61
Total LiAb. + Equity             1,256   1,070
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 29 -
ANN!X 3
Page 4 of 14
Financlal Sumry
Name of irm: PT. I.O.L.
1978    1979    1980    1981               Cmwnta:
INCOME STATEMENT
bRvenue s                                                    1. PT. I.O.L. became a PANN
Shipping                                                      operator from mid-1978, by
Other                                                         leasing:
Tot-l                                                         -  Niaga XVIII, from 1978
(IBRD Loan), lease.
Operating Coats:                                                -  Niaga XXVIII, from 1980
Shipping                                                         (IBRD Loan), leasa.
Other                                                         -  4 Rehabilitatod vessels,
Total                                                            from 1978 (IBRD Loan),
lease back.
Croas profit:
Shipping                                                   2. The company has never
Other                                                         submitted financial
Total                                                         statements, nor Voyage
Accounts.
Admin. Expenses:
3. The company is run poorly,
Operating Profit                                                and arrears to PANN are
substantial.
Other income (Exp.)
4. The company, besidee owing
Net Income Before Tax                                           to PANN, also owes to other
Tax                                                             banks and financial inatitu-
Met Income After Tax                                            tions.
5. The company is in very poor
BALANCE SHEET                                                     shape financially.
Current Assets:
Cash
Other
Total
Fixed asseta:
Vessels
Other
Total
Other Assets:
Total Assets
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing
Other
Total
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank
Other
Equity:
Paid-in Capital
P/L
Total
Total Liab. + Equity
Source:  P.T. PANN.



- 30 -                                 ANNEX 3
Pa 1   5Tof 14
Financia l Summry
Nam, of firm: PT. Tanjung
1978    1479    1980    1981                 Comments:
INCOME STATEMENT
RUvInuet                                                        1. PT. Tanjung leaese one PANN
Shipping                   9       12      252                   ship from January 1980,
Other                    228      352      581                   which it  Ninga XXVII (IIURD
Total                    237      36       8                      Won)
Operating Costs:                                                2. Revenue mainly comes from
Shipping                  17       15      258                   other operationh, such am
Other                    182      291      496                   agency, terminal activities,
Total                    199      353                            etc.
Groos profit:                                                   3. The company Is run well, but
Shipping                  (8)      (3)      (5)                  the regularity of payments
Other                     46       61       85                   to PT PANN is not so good.
Total                                                            to PT 80i
Admin. Expenses:            72       91      102
Operating Profit           (34)    (33)    (22;
Other income (Exp.)         40       46       49
N2t Income Before Tax         6       13      22
Tax                           1        5      10
Net Income After Tax          5       8       12
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                       0       15        4
Other                    112      126      179
Total                    112      141      183
Fixed assets:
Vessels                  151      151      169
other                     20       30       29
Total                    131      121      140
Other Assets:                -        -       15
Total Assets               243      263      338
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing               12       24       88
Other                      3        2        2
Total                     15       26       90
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bunk                      50       50       50
Other                      -        -        -
Equity:
Paid-in Capital          200      200      200
P/L                        -        -        -
Total                    200      200      200
Total Liab. + Equity       243      263      338
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 14
Financial Suomry
Name of firm. PT. Nums Tenggara
1978    1979    1980    1981                 4ommencts
INCOME STATEMENT
Revenues:                                                       1. PT. Numa Tennggara, operates
Shipping               1,367   1,643   2,006   2,367             4 .hips, all financed by
Other                    340      611      849   1 063           IBRD Loan:
Total                           2,254   T! 3,               4 30 -  Niaga XXV, from 1979,
lease.
Operating Costs:                                                   -  Niaga XXXIII, from 1981,
Shipping               1,255   1,384   1,815   2,252                lease.
Other                    283      469      644      828          -  Niaga XXXIV, from 1982,
Total                  1,535   1,853   2.459   3,080                lease.
-  West Cliff, from 1982,
Gross profit:                                                         purchase on Installment.
Shipping                 112      259      191      115
Other                     56      142      205      235       2. Before coming to PT PANN,
Total                    168      401      396      350          this company was in poor fi-
nancial condition as most of
Admin. Expenses:            91      115      156      224          its shipa were old and in-
efficient. At that time PT
Operating Profit            77      286      239      126          PANN recommeided that the
company sell 3 of the
Other income (Exp.)        (82)      59        5      263          ships.  Due :o good manage-
ment and orr,anization, the
Net Income Before Tax       (5)    345       244      388          company hs. been rapidly
Tax                          -        -       63       49          improving in recent years.
Net Income After Tax        (5)    345       181      339
3. In 1982 this company was
able to buy a second-hand
BALANCE SHEET                                                        ship for cash through PT
PANN.
Current Assets:
Cash                      24       25       27       29
Other                    175      196      358      333
Total                    199      221      386      362
Fixed assets:
Vessels                           268             1,162
Other                      -       78        -      172
Total                    564      346      895   1,334
Other Assets:              120        -        -        -
Total Assets               883      567   1,281   1,696
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing               41       59       71      197
Other                    292        -      281      509
Total                    333       59      352      705
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank                     355        -        -        -
Other                     27        -      241        -
Equity:
Paid-in Capital          532      532      532      641
P/L                     (364)    (25)    156        349
Total                    160      508      688      990
Total Liab. + Equity       883      567   1,281   1,696
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 14
Financial Summry
Name of firnt PT. allmantan
1978    1979    1980    1981                 Commentes
INCOME STATEMENT
Revenues:                                                      1. PT. Ialimantan operates 3
Shipping                         470                            PANN vessels,
Other                             284                           -  Niaga XXI, from  1979,
Total                            7                                 (IBRD Loan), lease.
-  Niaga XXII, from 1979,
Operating Coas:                                                       (IBRD Loan), lease.
Shipping                          299                           -  Niaga XDXII from 1982,
Other                             273                              (IBRD Loan), lease.
Total                             S
2. The company is well run, and
Cross profit:                                                     payments to PANN are
Shipping                          171                           regular.
Other                              11
Total                             182
Admin. Expenses:                    157
Operating Profit                     25
Other income (Exp.)                 (10)
Net Income Before Tax                15
Tax                                   3
Net Income After Tax                 12
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                               24
Other                              99
Total                             124
Fixed assets:
Vessels                        2,196
Other                              67
Total                          2,263
Other Assets:                        60
Total Assets                      2,446
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing                        46
Other                              61
Total                             107
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank
Other                          2,207
Equity:
Paid-in Capital
P/L                               133
Total                             133
Total Liab. + Equity              2.446
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 33 -
ARNEX 3
Page e  f 1 4
Financial 8unry
Nan of firmt PT. Abadi Intl Llne
1979    1980    1981      1982               C^nHntus
INCOME STATFPMNT
Ravenuees                                                      1. PT. Abadi Intl Line in 1978
Shipping                                1,200   1,291           purchased on Lnetallment a
Other                                      152     229          PANN shlp (IBRD Loan).
Total                                   Tl3T  TW
2. From the beginning of con-
Operating Costa:                                                  tract period, this company
Shipping                                1,070      933          lia been fulfilling contract
Other                                      151     166          obligation. well.
Total                                   1,221   1.099
3. The company bought one ship
Croas profits                                                     for caah through PANN in
Shipping                                   129     358          1977.
Other                                        1      63
Totas                                     73- NT
Admin. Expensest                             403      536
Operating Profit                            (273)   (115)
Other income (Exp.)                           la        -
Net Incosn  Before Tax                     (215)   (115)
Tax
Met Income After Tax
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                               50       86       6
Other   -                                    -       13
Tbtal                              50       86       19
Fixed asseta:
Vesaela                         1,189     800   1,690
other                              31       36      26
Total                           1,220     836   1,716
Other Asseta:                         -        7       -
T_tal Assets                      1,270      929   1.735
Current liabilitiea:
Short-term
borroving                        -       85      113
Other                              71       -         1
Total                              71       85     114
Long-Term LAabilities:
Bank                             383      246   1,139
Other                              -        -        -
Equity:
Paid-ln Capit 1                   772     428      772
P/1                                45      17:.   (29O)
Total                             896 S97          482
Total Liab. + Equity              1,210      929   1.735
Source: P.T. PAWN.



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 14
ifnancial Su"mry
Name of firm: FT. K.P.N.
1978    1979    1980    1981                 CommntaI
INCOKE STATEMENT
Revenue a                                                      1. PT. KPN operates 3 PANN
Ihipping                 295      382     546                   ships:
Other                    256      312       28                  -  N14a N, fro  1975
To=tal                  5T         w                                 =(Bapindo Loan), lease.
- Niaga XXX, from 19R0
Operating Costa:                                                      (IDRD Lan), loese.
Shipping                 206      340     346                   -  Niaga 45, from 1982 (TIRD
Other                    268      230      103                      Loon), lesea.
2. The company is not running
Gross profit:                                                     satisfactorily.
Shipping                  89       42     199
Other          A13)                83         )              3. Because Naga 45 does not
o=tal                     76      T        125                  have a fixed route but
operates its ships as
Adin. Expenses:             64       67       70                   "trampers," revenuee cannot
be emtmated well for budget
Operating Profit            12       58       55                  purposes.
Other lncome (Exp.)          I        0        0               4. Partly because of the nature
of the operatlon., the lease
Net Incom  Before Tax       13       57       55                  payments to PANN are not
Tax                          3       15       14                  being made regularly.
Net Income After Tax        10       43       41
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                      33        2       24
Other                    192      159      171
Total                    226      161      1
Fixed assets:
vessels                   32       27       23
Other                     IS       10        6
Total                     46       37
Other Asetm:                36       21       87
Total AMsets               308      218      311
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borroving               64       20       -
Other                     87       87      151
Total                    151      107      151
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank                      14        -       -
Other                      -        -       -
Equlty:
Pald-in Capital           50       50      50
P/L                       93      62      110
Total                    143     Ti2       160
Total Limb. + EquitY       308      218      311
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 14
Financial Summary
Nsame of firms  PT. SRIWXJAYA        0
1978    1979    1980    1981                Comments:
INCOMZ STATEMENT
Revenuest                                                      1. No financial statements  have
Shipping                                                        been received by P.T. PANN.
Other
Total
Operating Costas
Shipping
Other
Total
Grose profit:
Shipping
Other
Total
Admin. Expenses:
operating Profit
Other income (Zxp.)
Net Income Before Tax
Tax
Net Income After Tax
BAIANCE SHEIT
Current Assets:
Cash
Other
Total
Fixed assets:
Vessels
Other
Total
Other Assets:
Total AssetB
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing
Other
Total
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank
Other
Equity:
Paid-in Capital
P/L
Total
Total Liab. + Equity
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 36 -
ANX 3
P=age 1 of 1A
Financial Summary
Name of flr.:  PT. Ilhari
1978    1979    19R0    1981                 Commntul
INCOME STATEMENT
Revenueas:                                                     1. PT. Bahari operates 2 PANN
Shipping                                   364     776          ships:
Other                                   2 124   1 194           -  NlmRa XXXI, from 1981
Totu                                                               (IBRD Loan), lease.
- Nia&& XXXII, from 1980
Operating Costam                                                      (ItRD Loan), lesse.
Shipping                                  563      616
Other                                    1 611   1 047       2. Tha company Is run wall, and
Total =;s                                         1,66          lease paymento are mde
regularly.
Crocs profit:
Shipping                                 (200)    160
Other                                      513     147
Totel                                     3TU 
Adin. Expenses:                              176       98
Operating Profit                             138      208
Other income (Exp.)                          (20)    (48)
Net Income Before Tax                        118      161
Tax
Net Income After Tax
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                                       166     240
Other                                     816      800
Total                                     982   1,040
Fixed assets:
Vessels                                     80   1,762
Other                                     205      202
Total                                      285   1,964
Other Aeots:                                  53       39
Total Assets                               1,320   3,403
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing                                 -      108
Other                                      742     853
Total                                     742      961
Long-Ter3 Liabilities:
Bank                                       59   1,407
Other                                      124     124
Equity:
Paid-in Capital                           640      640
P/L                                      (245)    (88)
Total                                      395     552
Total Liab. + Equity                       1.320   3,043
Source: P.T. PANN.



-37 -
ANNUX 3
PagW   20of 14
Financlal Oummiary
Nam of fira. PT. P.R.I.
1979    1980    1981    1982                 Commnt.i
INCONK STATEMENT
Revenuel                                                       1. PT. PRI became a PANN
Shipping                 158     206      720   1,310           operator mid-1981, when it
Other                      -       16      50      116          leased two vessels.
T                        mta  TX   1f!  TM T
2. In 1981, it almo bought one
Operating Cobt.i                                                  ship using Iapindo's Loan.
Shipping                 137      187     648   1.172
Other                      -                 .               3. From the start, as PANN's
a                              I m            ;17 operator, lease payment. to
PT PANN have not boen made
Crone profit:                                                     regularly.  Thin wg. due to
Shipping                  22       19      72      137          inexperience of its mnage-
Other                      -       16      50      116          aent in the shippLng
Total                    Tf       3!      T   ff T              businese.
Admin. Zxpeneess            18       26      80      185
Operating Profit             3        8      43       68
Other income (Exp.)         75       10      (24)    (90)
Net Income Before Tax       78       18       19     (22)
Tax
Net Income After Tax
BALANCE SHEET
Current Asets:
Cash                      63       63     190      176
Other                    130      131      68       85
Total                    193     *Tir     2S8       61
Fixed assets:
Vessels                    -        -     917      824
Other                     51      48       85      128
Total 1                           46   1,002      951
Other Assets:               50       33     125       56
Total Assets               293      275   1.385   1,269
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing                -        9      62       89
Other                     21        -     131      127
Total                     21        g     193      216
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank                       -       -      799      778
Other                     40       16     224      116
Equity:
Paid-in Capital          150      150     150      150
P/L                       81      100      19        9
Total                    231     Z50      169      159
Total Liab. + Equity       293      275   1.385   1.269
Source: P.T. PANN.



- 38 -
ANNLX 3
Page 13 of 14
ninanclel S9muary
None of firmi PT. Wasesa
1978    1979    1980    1981                CommentaI
lNCOME STATEMENT
Revenue..                                                      1. PT. Waseea Line, leases one
Shipping                 343      546     571                   ship from 1982 on, which wae
Otiher                   466     444      575                   financed by rIRD Loan.
2. ln 1975, It also leased 2
Operating Costs:                                                  ships from PT PANN, which
Shipping                 238      335     463                   were financed by Dapindo
Other                    291      309     434                   Loan.  The ships were bought
Total                    3w1     T        m                     outright by the line in
1983.
Gross profits
Shipping                 105      212     lOg                3. The company makes lease
Other                    175      135     141                   paymnts promptly.
Total                    2paO                                             pr opI
Admin. Expenaru:           168      188     233
Operating Profit           III      159       16
Other income (Exp.)          2      (69)     23
Net Income Before Tax    114         90       39
Tx
Net Income After Tax
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash                       6       61      56
Other                    164     249      314
Total                    170      310     371
Fixed assets:
Vessels                  256      242     328
Other                     84      83       55
Total                    340      32.5    383
Other Assets:               94       53      43
Total Assets               603      688     797
Current liabilities:
Short-term
borrowing              378      315       -
Other                    104       58     400
Total                    482      373     400
Long-Term Liabilities;
Bank                      25        -       -
Other                      -        -       -
Equity:
Paid-in Capital          138     270      270
P/L                      (42)      45     126
Total                     96     315      397
Total Liab. + Equity       603      688     796
Source: P.T. PANN.



3 59 _
ANNEX 3
&jje 14Tof 14
Financial  immry
Na.. of firm: PT. PlELNI
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983            Coumenta,
INCONS STATEMENT
Revenu ai                                                    Capital include. paid-In
Shipping        19,445  27,323  27,919  28,928  27,347 capital of Rp 40,156 million
teclir           12 305  15 237  17 684  20 481  21,178 and government aid.
Total           31,750 T!i    4T      3  49,4UY  485. 24
Operating Cootdi
ShippIng        22,224  29,146  33,528  34,679  33,926
Ocher            7 771   9 272   1, 130  13 249  13 713
Tutal           21ei1J  3R,418  44,658 T7,92 T7~
Cross profit.
Shipping        -2,779  -1,823  -5,609  -5,751  -6,579
Ocher            4,534   5 965   6 554   7 232   7,465
Total             1,733   4,14       945   1,48       885
Admin. Ixpense.:   3,727   4,185   5,562   6,370   4,753
Operating Profit  -1.972      -43  -4,617  -4,889  -3,868
Other incom  (Exp.) -436    -270    -923    -337    -953
Net Incom
Before Tax      -2,408    -313  -5,540  -5,526  -4,821
Tax
Net Income After Tax
BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets:
Cash             2.639   2,949   2.991   1,897   5,918
Other           11.633  12,692  15,247  18.065  19,247
Total           14,272  15,641  1.238  19,962  25,165
Fixed asseta:
Vessels         31.279  36,162  27,737  25,969  65,187
Other            5.364   5,182   6,481   6,599   6,284
Total           36,643  61,344  34,218  33,568  71,471
Other Assets:       1,200   1,572   2,515   2,753   2.i53
Total Asseta      52,115  58,557  54,971  55,283  99,389
Current liabilities:
Short-term       1,012      582      360   1,162      717
borrowiing
Other            8,917   9,075  14,302  18,312  25.557
Total            9,929   9,657  14,662  19,474  26,274
Long-Term Liabilities:
Bank             1,337   6.736   1,606       989      668
Other
Equity:
Capital         49,453  51,962  53,918  55,791  98,239
Retained
earnings      -8,604  -9,798 -15,215 -20,971 -25,792
Total           40,849  42,164  38,703  34,820  72,447
Total Liab.
+ Equity      52,115  58,557  54,971  55,283  99,3h9
Source: PT FELNI.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:       2.1.1 / 1967
Name of vessel:    Geziona (Niaga XVII)/DWT:  1,850
Operator's name:  PT Eja
1980             1981              1982
Projec-          Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues              559       236     463      236      447
Operating expenses              259       122     277      138      279
Gross Profit               300       114     186       99      168
Administrative expenses           -         2       -         2       -
Lease/installment payments       95        72      85       72       95
Net Operating Income       205       40      101       25       73
Statistics
No. of voyages                 18        20      12       20       13
Sailing days                  176      200      121      200      146
Port days                     200       130     193      130      232
Average load factor (Z)        79        73      86       73       76
Route                        N-21     T-15    N-21      T-15    N-21
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source: P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.1.2   1 1969
Name of vesel:    Bilbao (Niaga XXII)/DWT:  2,780
Operator's name:   PT Eja
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted L    Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted La
Operating revenues               605      640      494       645     468       685
Operating expenses               226       261     226       276     276       264
Gross Profit               379       380      268      369      192       421
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments       171       159     136       159     165       159
Met Operating Income       208       220      133      210       27       262
Statistics
No. of voyages                  19        17      12        16      12        17
Sailing days                   165      153      113       144     112       153
Port days                      187      177      154       166     185       177
Average load factor (X)         64       70       69        75      70        75
Route                        N-21      T-14    N-21      T-14    N-21       T-14
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source: P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.2.1 / 1974
Name of vessel:    Komodo VI (Niaga XIX)/DWT:  2,044
Operator's name:   PT Maratus
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actuai  ted /a
Operating revenues               283       190     247       190     326
Operating expenses               215        97     141        97     201
Gross Profit                68        93      106       93      126
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments        44        79      44        79      46
Net Operating Income         24       14       62        14      79
Statistics
No. of voyages                   8        13       8        13       9
Sailing days                    97      137       97      137      114
Port days                      277      193      253       193     279
Average load factor (Z)         53       65       51        65      41
Route                        N-39      T-24    N-39      T-24    N-39
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.2.2 / 1970
Name of vessel:    Sevllla (Niaga XXIX)/DWT:  2,353
Operator's name:   PT Mbratus
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues               128      250      406      250      424
Operating expenses                56      136      153      136      210
Gross Profit                 72      114      253      114      214
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments        67      106      164       106     214
Net Operating Income          5        8       89        8        0
Statistics
No. of voyages                   3       12       11       12        9
Sailing days                    29      140       96      140      110
Port days                      145      200      260      200      240
Average load factor (X)         51       65       54       65       45
Route                        N-43      T-22    N-43      T-22    N-43
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  1980 > TRW III + IV & Kapal disevahkan 17/7 - 1980.
Proyeksi hanya s/d. 1981.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 30
Vessel Ac.ounts
Subloan no.:        2.3.1 / 1974
Name of vessel:    Nina Bewa (Niaga XX)/DWT:  2,620
Operator's name:   PT Panurjwan
1980              1981              1982
ProJec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                         207               188     329       207
Operating expenses                         109               114     357       110
Gross Profit                          98                 74     (29)       97
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                  82                82      127       82
Net Operating Income                  16                 (8)   (155)       15
Statistics
No. of voyages                            10                 9       8        10
Sailing days                            198                175     105       180
Port days                               142                125     126       130
Average load factor (Z)                  60                 60      25        60
Route                                   T-7                T-7    N-28       T-7
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source.  P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.3.2 / 1971
Name of vessel:    Pep. Ocean (Niaga XXVI)/DWT:  2,660
Operator'a name:   PT Panurjwan
1980              1981              1982
Pro0jec-          Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                         211               205      471      211
Operating expenses                          80                83      309       80
Gross Profit                          131               123     162       131
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                 118               118      162      118
Net Operating Income                   14                 5       0        13
Statistics
No. of voyages                            10                 9       7        10
Sailing days                             198               175     136       180
Port days                                142               125     278       130
Average load factor (Z)                   60                60       14       60
Route                                   T-7                T-7    N-28       T-7
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 46 -
ANNEX74
Pagae7of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.4.1 / 1967
Name of vessel:    Frysland (Niaga XVIII)/DWT:  1,925
Operator's name:   PT I.O.L.
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                        209                232               232
Operating expenses                         113               118               128
Gross Profit                          96               114                104
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                  36                36                36
Net Operating Income                  89                78                 67
Statistics
No. of voyages                           15                 16                16
Sailing days                            150               165                165
Port days                               150                165               165
Average load factor (Z)                  45                 45                45
Route                                   T-6               T-6                T-6
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 47 -
ANNEX4
Page 8 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.4.2 / 1974
Name of veasel:    Peter H. (Ntaga XXVIII)/DWT:  2,860
Operator's name:   PT I.O.L.
1980             1981              1982
Projec-          Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenaes                        276               306              306
Operating expenses                        142               137              139
Gross Profit                         134              169               168
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                 31               31                31
Net Operating Income                103               138               137
Statistics
No. of voyages                           10               11                11
Sailing days                           130               143               143
Fort days                               170              187               187
Average load factor (Z)                  45               45                45
Route                                 T-14              T-14              T-14
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Sot;rce. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Pa ge iof 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.5.1 / 1974
Name of vessel:    Yooi Maru (Niaga XXVII)/DWT:  1,700
Operator's name:   PT Tanjung
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted La   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                154      179                164               179
Operating expenses                110      106                115               108
Gross Profit                 44        73                50                 71
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments         51       42                 42                42
Net Operating Income         (7)       31                 7                 29
Statistics
No. of voyages                  16        12                 11                12
Sailing days                    66       158                153               158
Port days                      183       172                167               172
Average load factor tZ)         94
Route                                   T-29              T-29               T-29
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Souir-e. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Pa-ge10 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.6.1 / 1969
Name of vessel:    Dorthe TY (Niaga XXV)/DWT:  2,220
Operator's name:   PT Nusa Tenggara
1980             1981               1982
Projec-           Pro jec-    Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues               400      197      248      197      294      179
Operating expenses               240      112      149      113      240      119
Gross Profit               160        85      99        84     54         60
*  Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments        64       77       74       77      38        77
Net Operating Income        96         8      25         7     16        (17)
Statistics
No. of voyages                 19        12      13        12      15        11
Sailing days                  125       129      68       129      104      118
Port days                     267       201     176       201     253       184
Average load factor (Z)         56       65      52        65     39         65
Route                        S-ll      T-20    S-11      T-20      S-39    T-20
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.6.2 / 1970
Name of vessel:    Maasplien (Niaga XXIII)/DWT:  2,520
Operator's name:   PT Nusa Tenggara
1980              1981               1982
Projec-           Projec-    Projec-
Actual  ted La   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted Li
Operating revenues                                  270       484      368      484
Operating expenses                                  191       229      209       230
Gross Profit                                     79      256      159       255
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                          101       168       48       168
Net Operating Income                          (22)       88      111        87
Statistics
No. of voyages                                     13        18      16        18
Sailing days                                       71       126     91        126
Port days                                         233       204     242       204
Average load factor (X)                            48        55      36        35
Route                                            N-31     N-34      N-31    N-34
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.6.3 / 1971
Name of vessel:    Nulton (Niaga XXIV)/DWT:  2,690
Operator's name:   PT Nusa Tenggara
1980             1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-    ProJec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                                 218      443     317       442
Operating expenses                                 149      221     252       222
Gross Profit                                  69       222     165      220
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                         80       168     51        168
Net Operatina Income                         (11)       54     14        52
Statistics
No. of voyages                                   12        20     17         20
Sailing days                                     51       120     78       120
Port days                                       174       204     259      204
Average load factor (Z)                          51        55     43         55
Route                                          N-34      N-31     N-34    N-31
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations: Lease 23/5 - 1981.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Pag 13 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloin no.:        2.8.1 / 1972
Name of vessel:    Nere. Polaris (Niaga XXI)/DWT:  1,300
Operator's name:   PT Kalimantan
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           ProJec-    Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues               204       294      544      323      955       323
Operating expenses                75       163      143       162     239       164
Gross Profit                129       131     401       161      716       160
Administrative expenses
Lease/installuent payments        47       121      92        121     123       121
Net Operating Income         83        1O     309        40      593        39
Statistics
No. of voyages                   7        30      13        33      17         33
Sailing days                    39       120      94       132      127       132
Port days                       85       180     152       198      185       198
Average load factor (%)         51        65      24        65      45         65
Route                          N-9       T-1     N-9       T-1      N-9       T-1
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations: 1980 >Uresin Rusak.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 14 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.8.2 / 1972
Name of vessel:    Norc. Aequator (Niaga XXII)/DWT:  1,300
Operator's name:  PT Kallimntan
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-    Projec-
Actual  ted L   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues               574      294      438       323     582       323
Operating expenses               131       163     117       162     233       164
Gross Profit               443       131      321      161      349       160
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment paymunts       140       121      98       121     127       121
Net Operating Income       303        10      223       40      222        39
Statistics
No. of voyages                  21       30       13        33     25         33
Sailing days                  110       120       80      132      113       132
Port days                     242       180      171       198     221       198
Average load factor (Z)         45       65       29        65     37         65
Route                         N-5       T-1      N-5      l-1      N-5       T-1
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:       2.8.3 / 1972
Name of vessel:    Quidwal (Niaga XXXXII)/DWT:  2,900
Operator's name:   PT Kalimantan
1980             1981              1982
Projec-          Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                                                           810
Operating expenses                                                           413
Gross Profit                                                            397
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                                                   222
Net Operating Income                                                    175
Statistics
No. of voyages                                                              18
Sailing days                                                               130
Port days                                                                  200
Average load factor (Z)                                                     60
Route                                                                      N-9
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source.  P.T. Pann.
Explanations: Kapal disprahkan 1/11-1982.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 30
Vesmel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.9.1 / 1968
Name of veasal:    Clty of Ankara (Niaga XXIII)/DWT:  2,388
Operator's name:   PT Abadi Intl Line
1980              1981               1982
Projet-           Projec-            Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted La   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                317       214     484       235      421       235
Operating expenoes                221       131     300       128      416       129
Gross Profit                 95        83      184       107       15       106
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments         38        53      39        53       40        53
Net Operating Income         57        30      145        54     (34)       53
Statistics
No. of voyages                   11       10        9        11        8        11
Sailing days                    11l      154      144       170      126       170
Port days                      233       146      220       160      191       160
Average load factor (%)         62        59       79        59       59        59
Route                         N-28       T-7    N-28        T-7    N-28       T-7
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page 17 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.10.1 / 1973
Name of vessel:    Pep Nautic (Niaga XXX)/DWT:  1,385
Operator's name:   PT M.P.N.
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted la
Operating revenues               123       249     414       284      236      284
Operating expenses                51       125     251       124      185      124
Gross Profit                 72      124      164       161     151       160
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments        37       114     105       114      154      114
Net Operating Income         35        11      58        47    (103)       46
Statistics
No. of voyages                   4        14      13        16       10       16
Sailing days                    28       98      113       112      91       112
Port days                       69       202     251       218     162       218
Average load factor (Z)         46        50      57        50      62        50
Route                          T-3      F-7      N-9       F-7     N-9       F-7
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  1980 > diserahkan 9/8 1980



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
page 18 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.10.2 / 1976
Name of vessel:    Pia Sanued (Niaga XXXXV)/DWT:  2,671
Operator's name:   PT M.P.N.
1980              1981              1982
Pro Jec-          Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                                                             732
Operating expenses                                                             345
Gross Profit                                                              387
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                                                     213
Net Operating Income                                                      174
Statistics
No. of voyages                                                                14
Sailing days                                                                 126
Port days                                                                    182
Average load factor (Z)                                                       60
Route                                                                       S-15
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapal diserahkan 16/11 - 1982.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 19 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.11.1 / 1973
Name of vessel:    Westwal (Niaga XXXVIII)/DWT:  2,968
Operator's name:   PT Sriwijaya Raya Lines
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                                          257      554      513
Operating expenses                                          143      301      286
Gross Profit                                           114     253       228
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                                   80      197      159
Net Operating Income                                    34      56        69
Statistics
No. of voyages                                             12        9       24
Sailing days                                               77      112      154
Port days                                                  88     210       176
Average load factor (Z)                                    50      40        50
Route                                                     N-9    N-36       N-9
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapal diserahkan 14/12 - 1981.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Paga 20 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.11.1 / 1971
Name of vessel:    Karlsburg (Niaga XXXVII)/1)WT:  3,125
Operator's name:   PT Sriwijaya Raya Lines
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                                           385      655      514
Operating expenses                                           212      330      286
Gross Profit                                            173     325       228
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                                   119      179      159
Net Operating Income                                     53     146        69
Statistics
No. of voyages                                              18                24
Sailing days                                               115               154
Port days                                                  132               176
Average load factor (Z)                                     50                50
Route                                                      N-9               N-9
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations: Kapal diserahkan 11/2 - 1982



- 60 -
JWNNX 4
Page 21 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.11.3 / 1979
Name of vessel:    M4ira (Niaga U XXXXI)/DWT:  2,023
Operator's name:   PT Sriwijaya Raya Lines
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                                                   276       713
Operating expenses                                                    149      344
Gross Profit                                                    128       369
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                                            103      217
Net Operating Income                                             24       152
Statistics
No. of voyages                                                       6         8
Sailing days                                                        65       104
Port days                                                           95       226
Average load factor (X)                                             74        65
Route                                                             N-36      N-26
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapal diserahkan 10/8 - 1982.



- 61 -
ANNMX 4
Page 2 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.12.1 / 1971
Name of vussel:    Prinsenwal (Niaga DXI)/DWT:  2,854
Operator's names   PT Baharl
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted La   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                         406               406               406
Operating expenses                         184               186               186
Gross Profit                         222                221               220
Administratlve expenses
Lease/installment payments                 139               139               139
Net Operating Income                  82                 81                80
Statistics
No. of voyages                            12                12                12
Sailing days                             156               156               156
Port days                                180               180               180
Average load factor (Z)                   66                66                66
Route                                   T-8                T-8               T-8
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapsl diserahkan 19/1 - 1981.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 23 of 30
Vessel Account.
Subloan no.:        2.12.2 / 1970
Name of vessel:    Noordwal (Niaga XXXII)/DWT:  2,860
Operator's name:   PT Bahari
1980              1981              1982
Prtjec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted La   Actual  ted /a
Operating revenues                         433     557       433                433
Operating expenses                         192     212       192                192
Gross Profit                          241     345       241               241
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                 139     162       139                139
Net Operating Income                  101     184       101               101
Statistics
No. of voyages                            18      14        18                 18
Sailing da7s                             162     160       162                162
Port days                                180     197       180                180
Average load factor (%)                   62      64        62                 62
Route                                    T-4    N-21       T-4               T-4
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapal diserahkan 2/12 - 1980.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 24 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.15.1 / 1971
Name of vessel:    Beni Salem (Niaga XXXVI)/DWT:  3,539
Operator's nammi   PT P.R.I.
1980              1981              1982
Projoc-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /j
Operating ravenues                                 336       392     447       392
operating expenses                                 194       141     283       146
Gross Profit                                  142      251      163       247
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                          95       139      158      139
Net Operating Income                           47      112        5       107
Statistics
No. of voyages                                     5        13      10        13
Sailing days                                      94       145     144       150
Port days                                        170       185     236       180
Average load factor (%)                           49        68      52        68
Route                                           N-26     S-17    N-26       S-17
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapal diserahkan 15/5 - 1981.



- 64 -
ANNgX 4
Page 25 of 30
Vessal Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.15.2 / 1971
Name of vessel:    Beni Faraigh (Niaga XXXV)/DWT:  2,539
Operator's name:   PT P.R.I.
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted Xa   Actual  ted la
Operating revenues                                  150       332     453       332
Operating expenses                                   68       131     265       136
Gross Profit                                   83       201      188      196
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                           39       139     159       139
Net Operating Income                           43        62       29       57
Statistics
No. of voyages                                      2       11        8       11
Sailing days                                       33      115      116      120
Port days                                          59      215      272      210
Average load factor (2)                            55       68       40        68
Route                                           N-27      S-16    N-27      S-16
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapal diserahkan 18/5 - 1981.



- 65 -
ANNME 4
Pag 26 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        2.16.1 / 1968
Name of vessel:    Wildtwal (Niaga XXXIX)/DWT:  2,968
Operator's name:   PT Wasesa Line
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted /A
Operating revenues                                           585     231       760
Operating expenses                                           269      189      302
Gross Profit                                            316     143       458
* Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments                                   133      97       159
Net Operating Income                                    183      46       299
Statistics
No. of voyages                                              15       8        18
Sailing days                                               144      58       144
Port days                                                  180     125       180
Average load factor (X)                                     60      42        65
Route                                                      N-9    S-ll       N-9
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appralsal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:  Kapal diserahkan 7/5 - 1982.



- 66 *.
ANN1X 4
Page 27 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        1.4.1 / 1957
Name of vessel:    Deepa Maju / DWT: 900
Operator's name:   PT I.O.L.
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           ProJec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted La   Actual  tQd (
Operating revenues               213       125               125               125
Operating expenses                97        78                78                79
Gross Profit                116       47                 46                46
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments         5        14                14                14
Net Operating Income        111       33                 33                32
Statistics
No. of voyages                           26                 26                26
Sailing days                             76                 76                76
Port days                               259                259               259
Average load factor (%)                 100                100               100
Route
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 28 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        1.4.2 / 1957
Name of vessel:    Deepa Murni /DWT:  900
Operator'a name:   PT I.O.L.
1980              19B1              1982
Prro =Gc-         Prro ec-          , Pro ic-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted La   Actual  ted /a
Operating ravenues                185      166                166               166
Operatlng expenses               117        75                 76                76
Gross Profit                 67       91                 91                 90
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments          3       14                 14                14
Net Operating Income         64        78                77                 76
Statistics
No. of voyages                            17                17                 17
Sailing days                             165               165                165
Port days                                165               165                165
Average load factor (X)                   90                90                 90
Route
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 68 -
ANNUM 4
Pgo 2  of 30
Vessel Accounts
Subloan no.:        1.4.3 1 1952
Name of vesselt    Deepa Raya /DW:T  2,655
Operator's name:   PT I.O.L.
1980              1981              1982
Projec-           Projec-           Projec-
Actual  ted /a   Actual  ted l    Actual  ted la
Operating revenues               250      285                285               285
Operating expenses               151       129               130               131
Gross Profit                 99      156               155                154
Administrative expenses
Lease/installment payments         7        33                3-                33
Net Operating Income        92       123               122                121
Statistics
No. of voyages                           15                 15                15
Sailing days                            165               165                165
Port days                               165                165               165
Average load factor (Z)                  45                 45                45
Route
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



- 69 -
4NNZX 4
Pap 30 of 30
Vessel Accounts
Skdbloan no.:        1.4.4 / 1960
Name of vasual:    Doepa Subur /DWT:  1,900
Operator's name:   PT I.O.L.
1980              1981               1982
P rop la -c-       P rpro jec-       Projec-
Actual  ted /    Actual  ted  a   Actual  ted IA
Operating revenues                286       211                211                211
Operating expenses                158       112                113                114
Gross Profit                 128        99                 98                97
Administrative expenses
Lease/installmuent payments         3        24                 29                 24
Net Operating Income         125        75                74                 73
Statistics
No. of voyages                             26                 26                 26
Sailing days                               76                 76                 76
Port days                                 254                254               254
Average load factor (Z)                    65                 65                 65
Route
/a P.T. Pann Subloan appraisal.
Source. P.T. Pann.
Explanations:



IWDONESIA
SECOND SHIPPING PZOJECT (OAN 12SO-IID)
P1o03Wcr COLET ION %EMT
Freight Traffic and Shippang Calpcity heqnireuants: Forecasts vs. Actils
Assumed                          Assumed                          As
annual growth rate of 15.52       annual growtb rate of 10          a'uul growtb rate of 71
Sh'pping capa-                   Shipping capa-                   Shpping capa-
city ('000 dwt)                  city ('000 dvt)                  clty ('000 dvt)               Act_l reslts
Freight       with per dvt       Freight       vith per dwt       Freight        with per dwt       Freight     SEip1i
traffic     productivity of:    traffic      productivity of:    traffic       pErodutivity of:    traffic    capacAtyl
(ain tans)  17.7 tons  15 tons  (aun tons)  17.7 tons  15 tone  (eln tons)  17.7 teos  15 tens  (s1.. tin)  (o00  ol4W  hvr tivty
1973           2.50         141       167       2.50         141       167        2.50        141        167       2.S5          -              -
1974           2.89         163       193        2.75        155       183        2.68        151        179       2.81          -              -
1975           3.34         189       223       3.02         171       201        2.86        162        191       3.20          -              -
1976           3.85         218       257       3.33         188       222        3.06        173        204       3.63          -              -
1977           4.45         251       297       3.66         207       244        3.28        185        219       3.70          -              -
1978           5.14         291       343       4.03         228       269        3.51        198        234       4.04        348              -
1971           5.84         330       390       4.44         251       296        3.75        212        250       4.45        3                -
1980            -             -         -        -             -         -         -            -          -       4.35        393             13
1981            -             -         -        -             -         -         -            -          -       4.0s        426             11
1982            -             -         -        -             -         -         -            -          -       4.42        503             11
1983            -             -         -        -             -         -         -            -          -       4.92          -             10
/a At end of year.



- 71 -
ANNEX 5b
INDONESIA
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT (LOAN 1250-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Passenger Traffic - Forecasts vs. Actuals
Appraisal forecast                            Actual
1972                                                                         310.5
1973                                   -                                     365.0
1974                               432.0                                     593.6
1975                               508.0                                     478.0
1976                               600.0                                     489.7
1977                               710.0                                     689.4
1978                               838.0                                     909.8
1979                               976.0                                   1,451.9
1980                                  -                                    1,054.7
1981                                   -                                   1,628.6
1982                                  -                                      992.4
1983                                  -                                      627.6



- 72 -
PT.(PERSEHO) PENGEMBANGAN ARMADA NIAGA NRSIONAL
_  emtuma VUdha *utl  4 Pinta, N. 1 A I ludimm JmklU kmn iem
Ph"o ! M214 M U33S lffllOle= *ul P.n UM 3377 Jht. Tnl*N 411S1 Penn IA C.! N.t. Jhs.
No. a 216/Dir/Para/0385          ;985
ImgWORIODS I 1\
1818 H4 Stroet, N.W.                                         t4
Wauhinqton D.C. 20433             '
U.S.A.
Att. Director Y.V           I NU{
Cmratcn !Evaluation Dl nt                      _ -
DearSir,                   I
:  Projet Opleticn RPport on Indomaia
Second Shipping Project (Loan 1250-DI)
we have duly received your letter of the February 15th, 1985.
Ttu Project Omrpletion Report tas bee  studied in our office with qrmat
interest. We find the references to PT.PANN in the period wder review
to be relevant ard qualified. Especially illustrative is your description
of PT.PANN as a bank established to acoept higher risks in order to further
develkpint of dmonesian Shipping.
i         tation problem  referred to still exist to sawe degree
aId Pr.PAMI is c trat          inprovesnts.
You may be interested to hear of developents since the end of your
rEporting period 1982.
e scocic factors have not bee  favourable and PT.PANN has takn measures
to safegtuard the investments.
We have inaisted an a 10 percet advance payment of the lea  which is to
be amortized over 2 - 3 years.
Rupiahs 2.5 million is to be paid by the operators every month into a reserve
fud for docking expenses.
In case vessels are witidrawn frm rxonpaying Cperators, they are transferred
to new ones at the market currency value.
PT.PAN, with its cash generation, has bem inaposition to purchase a
further new ship of 3292 T.W., m.v. "NMI SAT3u, which has been sol on
instalmnt basis to PT.NURL    IE.
Fbr your further guidance we enclose a copy of wr 1983 Auiited Report and
Seood Shipping Ican 1250-IND Report.
in comclusion we would state that we fully subscribe to the reports
cpinion that the Irdonesia Second Shipping Project has hal a beneficial
effect and in spite of many continuing difficulties contributed to the
develci ont of the national shipping companies ard national nerchart
fleet.



- 73 -
No hop  waur owU*A 11 _mut y=  rwqmft.
c.C. a
1. 7hu D_rbotw-      ral  for
*  ~it.nrmim~a1  rbtary Affairs.
2. gm D.pA  auizmw  for E==V Affairs
of DAW3ES.
3. 'fluS_yrwU        IIEIaLw of the Mbnitry of
4. !Oro Dizect=-G.Arau  of the Sea  wmict&
5. YAW III, IV, VII - gho Ministry of
G   hr. Aim. Otaudu 4th Fkow. J, .Jburl 3ir.r' .11 blrto SbSii   Indan,s
Ph" :164244-5943  P.O.k 3377 JkLlon: 46M  ffi IA- Cable: NeTtlIi .J1k.



I
i



