FILE         COP                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1819-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
April 16, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit        =    Indonesia Rupiah (Rp.)
US$1.00               =   Rp 415
1 Rupiah             =   $0.002
1 million rupiah     =   $2,410
Government of Indonesia
Fiscal Year April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TNTERNA1IONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REP'ORT AND RECOMME.NDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$54.0 million to help
finance the Seconc Shipping Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
About US$50 million of the proposed loan would be made available to P.T. PANN
(Pembangunan Armacda Niaga Nasional - National Fleet Development Company) half
as equity, half as debt. The debt portion would carry interest at 12 percent
per annum and be repaid in up to 10 years including one year grace for the
procurement of used ships and up to 5 years including one year of grace for
ship rehabilitation. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
The remaining US$L million of the proposed loan would be used by the Government
to cover about half of the cost of the technical assistance requirements of
the project. Japan would provide US$25 million at 2-3/4 percent interest per
annum for 30 yearE, including 10 years of grace. Norway would make available
an export credit cf US$87.8 m[llion at 8-1/2 percent interest per annum, plus
a single fee of 1.9 percent for 15 years including a grace of 3 years and a
grant of about US$12.5 million. A consortium of banks organized by Den Norske
Credit bank of Norway would also provide up to US$12 million for 5 years at
an interest of 1-7/8 percent over the Eurodollar rate, plus management and
commitment fees of 3/4 of 1 percent each.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Indonesia:    Development
Prospects and Needs" of April 15, 1975 (708-IND) described and analyzed
the structure of production and incomes, the recent changes in the avail-
ability of resources, and the medium and longer-term outLook for the In-
donesian economy. Country data are shown in Annex 1.
3.        In 1969, at the start of Indonesia's First Five-Year Plan, the per
capita income of the Indonesian population was probably no higher than half a
centurv ago. A majority of the population lived below a minimum welfare
standard, especially on Java. Most were dependent exclusively or primarily on
agriculture, where farms were generally very small. 1!nderernployment was
widespread. While the inflation of the mid-1960s had been overcome, infra-
structure was still in very poor condition.
4.        The Government's efforts during the First Five-Year Plan period
(April 1, 1969 - March 31, 1974) were successful in putting the economy
on the development road. Most physical objectives were achieved or nearly so,
and there was very substantial rehabilitaticn -rt ri,,-i-down infrastructure and
Government enterprises in agriculture and manufacturing. Foodgrain production
increased by 4 million tons during the Plan period Ar an average rate of 5
percent per annum. Investments increased at A verv fast rate, rising from 9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
to 19 percent of GNP. While 57 percent of Government development expenditures
were financed from abroad, the reliance on foreign financing was much less
than the level of nearly 80 percent foreseen in the Plan. Real GDP increased
at an annual rate of over 7 percent. GNP per capita in current prices reached
about US$130 1/ in 1973. The Government programs for the labor intensive
rehabilitation of infrastructure and other measures created substantial
incomes and employment. However, given the annual increase in the labor force
of about one million, one cannot be confident that the employment situation
improved during the First Plan period, and from available information it is
difficult to judge the extent to which the poorest sections of the population
shared in the gains of development.
5.        The Second Five-Year Plan (April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1979) builds
on the achievements of the First Plan. While the First Plan dealt mainly with
the urgent needs for stabilization and rehabilitation under conditions of
great scarcity of resources, progress has been such that the Second Plan can
give much more weight to such problems as employment, increasing the produc-
tivity and incomes of the poorest sections of the population and the poorest
regions, population control, education and health. The Plan identifies a
number of specific low-income target groups and, in general, adopts an employ-
ment oriented development strategy. It aims at a continued growth in invest-
ment, needed both because capital intensity will tend to increase as the
rehabilitation phase draws to an end, and because more socially-oriented
investments will be made. Overall, the Plan expects GDP to grow at 7.5
percent per annum.
6.        Over the decade 1961-71, Indonesia's population grew by 2.1 per-
cent a year. However, as a result of changes in the age, distribution and
declining mortality, the current growth rate is estimated at 2.5 percent.
Even under the most optimistic assumptions with regard to a decline in fer-
tility, the growth rate would come down only gradually, and the population
would nearly double by the end of the century. While Indonesia still has
substantial unutilized land reserves in the Outer Islands, these are limited
in relation to the expected population increase. Since 1969, the Government
has been operating and gradually extending a successful family planning
program. The number of acceptors has been increasing rapidly. The Second
Plan foresees a progressively more vigorous and comprehensive attack on the
population problem.
7.        During the years 1976-79, average annual additions to the labor
force are estimated at 1.2 million, increasing to more than 1.4 million in
the years 1980-85. In addition, substantial underemployment exists, and
there is the risk that even relatively simple technological improvements
may adversely affect existing employment. The Second Plan's projections
show that employment growth would approximately keep pace with the growth in
the labor force, but even this may be too optimistic. Thus, the magnitude and
the employment content of the investment program needs to be further enlarged
and strengthened if an appreciable increase in employment and the real earn-
ings of labor - and thus a wider spread of the benefits of development - is
to be attained.
I/   World Bank Atlas basis.



-3-
8.        Towards the end of 1973, when the Second Plan was being finalized,
prospects for resource availability improved dramatically. In line with
other OPEC countries, the Government raised the export price of oil in
successive stages from $3.70 per barrel in April 1973 to $12.60 per barrel
in July 1974.  Early in 1974 (and again in 1975) the Governnent also suc-
cessfully renegotiated the contracts with foreign oil companies, enabling
it to retain a greater share of the oil income.    As a result, the net
contribution of the oil sector to the balance of payments and Government
revenues was expected to increase very considerably; a large increase in
foreign exchange reserves and a budget surplus were also anticipated for
1974/75.1/
9.        By Octoer 1974, foreign exchange reserves had risen by $650 mil-
lion from nearly $1.0 billion at the beginning of 1974/75 and Government
revenues were excEeding the levels originally estimated.     The Government
authorized much higher levels of expenditures, mainly for development, which
reflected the improved revenue prospects. However, the recessionary condi-
tions in the industrial countries began to affect the volume of oil exports
and production by the middle of the year. Indonesia's low sulphur oil tended
to become overpriced 2/ as world oil demand slackened and ouitput declined from
an average of 1.45 million barrels per day (bpd) in the first half of 1974 to
1.31 million bpd in the second half. Proceeds from non-oil exports also
started to decline as prices, and in some cases export quantities, feLl.
10.       In October 1974 also, the first signs appeared of what turned out
to be a substantial financial overextension by PERTAMINA, the national oil
company.  PERTAMINA had undertaken a large and diversified investment program
financed to a substantial extent by short-term borrowing. In the third
quarter of 1974/75, it started withholding part of the corporate oil tax it
had collected on behalf of Government from the foreign oil companies; by the
end of the fiscal year a total of Rp 346 billion ($830 million) had been so
withheld and used to meet PERTAMINA's financial obligations. Early in 1975,
PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due to some foreign banks and the Government
stepped in and took decisive action. It banned all indepenclent foreign bor-
rowing by PERTAMINA and other Government enterprises and gave Bank Indonesia
the sole authority to contract foreign obligations, instruct:ed Bank Indonesia
to provide the funds needed to meet PERTAIINA's external obligations, under-
took a comprehensive review of the oil company's investment projects and began
the process of reducing and re-plannning the company's investment program and
of cancelling and renegotiating many of the related procurement contracts.
11.       The combination, in the last half of 1974/75, of slickening
receipts from exports of oil and other products and of the need to meet
PERTAIINA's short-term obligations resulted in a loss of the foreign ex-
change reserves gained in the first half of the fiscal year.     Fy March 31,
1/   Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1974 - March 31, 1975.
2/   The premium on1 Indonesian oil has recently been reduced by the Government's
decision to raise the price of its main crude by 1.5 percent (to $12.80)
as compared with the 10 percent incrense in the price of Saudi Arabian
light crude agreed at the meeting of OPEC in September 1975.



- 4 -
1975, these reserves were at the same level as at the beginning of April
1974.
12.       In the first half of 1975/76, Indonesia's foreign exchange reserves
declined by a further $480 million, despite substantial capital inflows,
which included two syndicated public cash borrowings (totalling $575 million)
from the international capital market. With continuing recessionary con-
ditions in Indonesia's principal markets, exports failed to increase while
imports rose again (about 30 percent on an annual basis). Debt service pay-
ments on behalf of PERTAMTNA were also very large (about $1.0 billion-)>     In
the second half of 1975/76, there was no appreciable change in export earn-
ings, but imports and debt service payments were lower and there was only
a small reduction in capital inflows (two more cash loans, amounting to
$475 million, were raised). The country's foreign exchange reserve position
was therefore relatively stable in this period and the decline in the re-
serves for the year as a whole amounted to nearly $500 million.
13.       Balance of payments prospects for 1976/77 are on the whole good.
Recovery from the recession appears to be underway in most industrialized
countries, commodity prices seem to have bottomed out and oil exports from
Indonesia have been rising in recent months.    The Government is in the pro-
cess of negotiating an increase in its share of the oil income. Rice imports
are expected to remain at the average level of recent years (Government esti-
mate is 1.4 million tons) but prices are likely to be considerably lower.
The country has sizeable stocks of fertilizer and only small amounts are ex-
pected to be imported. However, there remains some uncertainty as to the
exact magnitude of payments due on account of PERTAMINA's financial obli-
gations, and the outcome for foreign exchange reserves during 1976/77 at
this point is difficult to predict.
14.       Budgetary revenues in 1974/75 were much lower than had been anti-
cipated at the middle of the year, partly due to the withholding of oil tax
revenues by PERTAMINA and partly to the shortfall in oil exports in the
second half of the year. The budget was, however, still in balance by year's
end as the Government reduced or deferred expenditures. The Government
revenue in 1975/76 also fell substantially short of the budget estimates,
mainly as a result of lower oil tax revenue. To keep the budget balanced,
both current and development expenditures were reduced. Revenues, as well
as current and domestically financed development expenditures, are now esti-
mated to have been roughly 15 percent lower than originally budgeted.
15.       In spite of the shortfall in budgetary revenues, and the adminis-
trative difficulties involved in the implementation of some projects, total
development expenditures in 1974/75 were Rp 770 billion ($1.9 billion), about
60 percent higher than the level in the previous year. In 1975/76 they are
estimated at Rp 1.27 trillion ($3.1 billion), including foreign project
financing totalling about $925 million and fertilizer subsidies amounting to
$320 million. This is more than two and one-half times the actual expend-
iture in 1973/74; when adjusted for price changes, it represents an Lncrease
of about 60 percent.



-5-
16.       Preliminary figures indicate that the high growth rate achieved
durlng 1969-73 was maintained in 1974. At constant 1973 prices, gross
domestic product rose by 7.5 percent in 1974. Partial indicators seem to
point to slower growth of output in 1975. The inflation rate wEas very high
in the flrst part of 1974 as, among other factors, world inflation was
transmitted through both export and import channels, but abated somewhat
later in the year, partly as a result of the Government's stabilization
measures in April 1974. Nevertheless, for the year as a whole it reached
40 percent. While still considerable, the average inflation rate for 1975
was reduced to 20 percent.
17.       In the aftennath of the PERTAMINA development, the Government is
faced with problems which, although serious, are surmountable. The review-
of PERTAMINA's projects has resulted in cancellation or renegotiation of
many contracts and reductions in project scope and size. 1/ The Government
has more recently-undertaken a broader review of projects initiated by
various Government departments and other State entities in an effort to
bring future expenditu;res in line with available resources and the prior-
ities set out in the Second Plan. It is screening very carefully any major
new programs or projecl:s, since considerable resources will be needed in the
next year or two for the completion of projects already initiated.
18.       A longer-term effect of the recent financial difficulties will be
on the country's external public debt service obligations during the rest of
the decade. Debt service payments over the next several years will be much
larger than previously envisaged, as a result of the large borrowings by the
Government in 1975/76. Debt service in 1976/77 is now estimated at $700 mil-
lion, which would be about 12 percent of the officially projected net oil and
other exports. Debt service payments on all loans contracted to December 31,
1975 is projected to reach about one billion dollars by 1978 before declining
as shorter-term maturities are paid off. This is about $500 million more per
year than the payments projected on the basis of debt outstanding at the end
of 1974. With debt service obligations on these borrowings substantially
higher than expected earlier (about 13 percent of exports in 1978), the
margin for further borrowing on other than semi-concessional terms has now
become much more limited. The amounts, terms and purposes of future borrowing
therefore need to be kept under continuous careful review.
19.       While the recent balance ot payments and budgetary difficulties
have upset some of the Government's plans, the long-term prospects for
Indonesia's development remain good. The country has a substantial poten-
tial for further productive investment, employment and income growth. In
agriculture, a vigorous pursuit of on-going programs in irrigation, devel-
opment of new plant varieties and technical services, provision of credit
and current inputs, etc., promises to yield high returns. In addition,
there are opportunities for the development of new areas, of food and tree
crops - partly in conjunction with a rapidly growing transmigration program.
1/   The planned capacity of the Krakatau Steel plant, for example, was
reduced from 2,000,000 to 500,000 tons per year and the existing
supply contracts were reduced by $750 million.



- 6 -
The industrial potential is good, both for modern capital-intensive natural
resource-based activities and for more labor-intensive, partly export-oriented
industries.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
20.       As indicated in Part I, Indonesia's plans emphasize a need to
undertake a large investment and development program designed to provide
productive work opportunities (with resultant increased incomes) for its
presently underemployed and growing labor force. Substantial external
financing, on concessional and semi-concessional terms, as well as a consid-
erable volume of technical assistance, is also required. The Bank is planning
to increase its lending to Indonesia and, in particular, to support projects
designed to: improve agricultural credit, research and extension; rehabili-
tate and expand irrigation systems; increase the production and distribution
of fertilizer; assist transmigration and nucleus estates; increase non-agri-
cultural employment in small towns and rural areas by the establishment of
small-scale industries; and rehabilitate and expand urgently needed trans-
portation and other infrastructure.
21.       As of April 15, 1976, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits total-
ling $561.8 million and 12 Bank loans amounting to $628.0 million. At that
date, IFC investments totalled $58.4 million. At the end of 1974 the Bank
Group accounted for about 4 percent of Indonesia's total outstanding public
debt; by 1978 it is expected to acccount for 12 percent of total outstanding
public debt and 5 percent of public debt service obligations. A summary
statement of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 29,
1976 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects, are contained in Annex
II. This is the fifth loan proposed for Indonesia this year and, if approved,
would bring total IBRD commitments since June 30, 1975 to $302 million.
22.       To date, agriculture accounts for just over one-third of all Bank
lending to Indonesia, including four IDA credits for estate rehabilitation,
six for the rehabilitation and expansion of the irrigation systems, two for
fisheries, and one each for seeds, beef cattle, sugar and smallholder tea and
rubber. In the industrial sector, the Bank Group has assisted in three
projects to expand PUSRI's fertilizer production capacity, three for develop-
ment finance companies (Government-owned and private) which play a major role
in fostering the growth of industrial enterprises, and one for the Pulo Gadung
industrial estate. Loans and credits have also been extended to the transpor-
tation, education, telecommunications, tourism, power, population, urbaniza-
tion and water supply sectors, and four credits have been made for technical
assistance to aid the Government in preparing and formulating its development
programs and projects.
23.       The Bank's previous assistance in the transport sector consisted of
three credits and one loan totalling $206 million for highway projects, one
credit of $8.5 million for inter-island fleet rehabilitation, one loan of $48
million for the Indonesian railways project and one loan of $68 million for
fertilizer distribution project. Technical expertise has also been financed



-7 -
under the technical assistance credits to Indonesia.    Progress in most of these
projects has been slow, but no major difficulties have arisen. A proposed
project to expand the countries principle general cargo port (in Jakarta)
has been appraised and may be ready for financing early in the next fiscal
year.
24.       Bank lending to Indonesia started with an IDA Credit in 1968 for
irrigation rehabilitation; almost half of all loans and credits have been
made since mid-1972, with lending on Bank terms commencing in June 1974. Dis-
bursements on loans and credits are now at satisfactory levels. The Indonesian
authorities have become increasingly aware of the delays in project execution
caused by cumbersome procedures and the need to establish an effective conLrol
system in BAPPENAS (The National Development Planning Agency). At the Govern-
ment's request, the Bank has arranged for assistance under the Fourth Techical
Assistance Credit (Cr. 451-IND) to help set up a monitoring and control system
which it is hoped will lead to better project administration.
25.       Future Bank lending gives high priority to the agricultural sector
through support of projects to increase rice and other crop production in
the Inner and Outer Islands, and the expansion of resettlement efforts on
the latter. In addition, the program provides for further socially-oriented
projects in the fields of urban development and population.    Projects for
agricultural extension, ports, power, fertilizer production, irrigation and
nutrition are expected to be ready for presentation in the next few months.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
26.       For Indonesia the balanced growth of its island economy rests heavily
on improvements in the transport sector. Much of the nation's road and rail
systems are concentrated, like its population, on Java which has 33 percent
and 70 percent of the respective total networks. Roads provide the basic
links on the individual islands outside Java though the density of these net-
works is much lower than in Java. There are a few railway lines in Sumatera.
Where rivers are navigable (South Sumatera, Kalimantan, West Irian), they carry
significant volumes of traffic. There are also about 450 km of petroleum
pipelines in operat-Lon or under construction in south-central Java. Freight
movements among the islands are made by marine transport which also carries
some traffic between points on the same islands.    Air transport is developing
rapidly but is almost exclusively for passenger use, both inter- and intra-
island.  The largest single item in freight transport, measured in ton-km,
is the movement of petroleum products by domestic shipping; without this
traffic, road and sea traffic are roughly equal and each about three times
rail traffic. Road transport accounts for more than half of total pas-
senger-km, with rail contributing the second largest share.
27.       The contribution of transport to GDP virtually stagnated for most
of the 1960's, but grew at nearly 11 percent a year (in constant prices)
over the First Plan period. The Government's policy in the First Plan empha-
sized rehabilitation of transport facilities. Highway traffic has since



- 8 -
increased substantially, one indicator being that 70 percent more registered
vehicles are on the roads today than in 1970. In addition, some fleet expan-
sion took place, particularly in road transport and aviation. The primary
aim of the Government's Second Plan in the transport sector is to create
substantial capacity increases both by additional investment and by improved
productivity, through completion of unfinished rehabilitation work and fur-
ther strengthening of sectoral institutions and organizations.
28.       As a result of its enlarged oil income, the Government has expanded
expenditure under the 1974/75 and 1975/76 development budgets over the levels
projected in the Second Plan. The increase for transport is almost the same
as for the budget as a whole and, other than differential acceleration of
expenditures in some transport activities, the Government has not indicated a
shift in its sectoral strategy. Over the Second Plan period, investments for
transport in the public sector (assuming continuation of development expend-
itures at increased levels) and by the private sector are estimated at about
Rp 1,800 billion ($4.3 billion), in 1973 prices, roughly 17 percent of total
investments; about 56 percent of this will flow through the public sector
under various central and local government development budgets with the
remainder being financed privately, particularly for the purchase of road
and other transport vehicles.
Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
29.       Responsibility for planning and policy formulation in the transport
sector is divided at the national level between the Department of Public Works
and Power (DPW) for Highways and the Department of Transport, Communications
and Tourismi (DOC) for other modes. Investment proposals are formulated
at the modal level in these departments and then submitted to BAPPENAS for
review and approval.
30.       Planning of highways in the DPW's Directorate-General of Highways
(DGH) has been significantly strengthened in recent years with the assistance
of the UNDP-financed Highways Planning Advisory Team (HPAT). Railway plan-
ning will be improved under the recent Bank loan for the railways, and na-
tional ports planning, which is urgently needed, will be given special atten-
tion in a proptosed project for the port of Jakarta. Effective transport
planning is now hindered by limited and irregular-flow of data; the Govern-
ment is pursuing several means to improve the availability of information,
among them the provision of an expert financed under the Technical Assist-
ance Credit 275-IND to work with DOC on data problems.
31.       The Government largely controls the operation of the transport
system, not only through the provision of infrastructure and the ownership
of important transport enterprises in all modes, but also through rate
setting and other regulatory activities.   While it has not formulated an
explicit transport policy, the Government has identified areas requiring
special attention, particularly financial objectives and the control of
public sector transport firms and pricing policv. At present, accounting
systems vary widely among sectoral enterprises and means are not available
to compare financial performance or to set standards. Frequently, Govern-
ment decisions on rates has to be made without anaLysis of costs, demand



- 9 -
factors or the effect on competing modes. Experts, financed under the Tech-
nical Assistance Credit, are now advising DOC in these areas in order to
make the Government"s activities more consistent and effective, improve the
return on its investments in the sector and ensure that all relevant econo-
mic factors are considered in transport pricing.
The Maritime Sector
32.       The Indonesian shipping fleet, excluding some sailing craft, con-
sists of about 1,055 registered vessels having a total deadweight tonnage
(dwt) of 1,159,000. In addition, the operating fleet includes ships acquired
on hire purchase and charter, particularly oil tankers and oiL industry sup-
ply vessels. The records for mid-1974 show that Indonesia had 57 ocean-
going vessels owned by 7 major and a number of minor companies; 423 local
vessels with an average of 200 dwt and 336 inter-island registered ships of
500 dwt and over, totalling some 426,000 dwt and owned by 56 companies. Of
the inter-island ships, 200 totalling 220,000 dwt owned by 47 companies,
were licensed in the Regular Liner Service (inter-island) (RLS) fleet.
33.       Studies of short-term port requirements have been carried out by
consultants and the main ports are being improved with assistance from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Netherlands and Japan. Mast:er plans have
been prepared by consultants (Sir William Halcrow, U.K.) for t:he ports of
Surabaya, Belawan and Panjang with financing from UNDP with ADB as executing
agency. A master plan study of Tanjung Priok (Jakarta), the largest general
cargo port (handling about 30 percent of the country's total traffic) was
completed in September 1975 by consultants (Swan Wooster Engineering Co.,
Canada) financed under Credits 216-IND and 275-IND. The Government recognizes
the importance of imoroving port operations and a project designed to improve
Tanjung Priok has been appraised by the Bank. ADB and bilateral agencies are
considering a project for other ports. Measures to improve cargo
handling and reduce port time are included in the project.
34.       In 1975, the RLS system consisted of 28 trunk or main routes, 20
feeder routes and 18 routes which serve Singapore. About 140 ports are
served with varying frequency and regularity. The RLS section of the inter-
island fleet is dominated by the Government-owned company, P.T. Pelayaran
Nasional Indonesia (PELNI), which owns 40 percent of the total tonnage. Many
RLS companies own only a few ships. A large part of the RLS fleet is over-
age; in 1974, 35 percent of the ships was over 20 years old, a further 53
percent between 11 and 20 years old and only 12 percent under 10 years old.
Due to poor maintenance, frequent breakdowns and long repair times, it is
estimated that about half of the total fleet is operated less than 200 days
per year. The poor productivity of these ships is further reduced by inor-
dinately high port time and delays.
35.       Indonesia has about 300 ports scattered over the archipelago but
about 70 percent of traffic volume is concentrated in ten of them. The
major ports are in Java, Sumatera, Sulawesi and Kalimantan. Port operations
and customs procedures present a serious impediment to transport flow and
improvements could result in significant increases in port capacity and
a reduction in shipping costs. However, due to institutional rigidities,
major improvements cannot be expected to be achieved quickly.



- 10 -
36.       During the period from 1960 to 1970 the maritime sector had be-
come disorganized, ill-maintained and obsolete. A three-year fleet ration-
alization program starting in 1972 was planned by the Government in connec-
tion with the Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation Project financed under Credit
318-IND.
37.       This program, in addition to emphasizing the enforcement of marine
regulations, and providing technical assistance to ship repair facilities,
was expected to improve the RLS route service by rehabilitating ships and by
scrapping obsolete ships. It was also expected to improve shipyards and shore
facilities and, through conditions attached to rehabilitation sub-loans, the
operational performance of RLS shipping companies. Although the tonnage of
licensed ships in the RLS fleet has been reduced by 20 percent since early
1972, lax enforcement of safety standards delayed the ship scrapping program.
The upsurge of traffic in 1973 and 1974, and the Government's need to secure
shipping for the emergency transport of rice during the 1972/73 drought caused
additional delays. Progress has been made in consolidating and improving the
operations of shipping companies through formation of groups designed to
improve operations. Port operations, particularly in the main ports, were
also improved. Three main shipyards which received technical assistance under
Credit 318-IND have improved their operations and have participated in the
rehabilitation work on RLS ships. Considering the difficulties of implement-
ing planned changes and the short time involved, progress made in executing
the fleet rationalization program is encouraging and the Inter-Island Fleet
Rehabilitation Project is in general being satisfactorily implemented even
though the total tonnage to be rehabilitated has been greatly reduced because
of severe costs increases. Much remains to be done, including further phy-
sical rehabilitation and more effective enforcement of shipping safety
regulations.
38.       Rapid increases in investment and production activity in Indonesia
in recent years have resulted in growing volumes of ocean and inter-island
trade; the RLS traffic rose from 1.9 million tons in 1971 to 2.5 million tons
in 1973. By early 1974, shippers were offering premiums on freight rates
in order to obtain service. With the current slow-down of economic activity,
a temporary over supply of shipping capacity may reappear. But even if port
operations and customs procedures are improved, thereby increasing average
ship productivity, there would still be a growing shortage of shipping during
the next five years and beyond. To overcome this shortage, the Government
has drawn up an inter-island fleet development program based on the report-
Long Term Fleet Development (LTFD) of November 1974, prepared by consultants
(Mlaritime Research Centre, the Hague) retained as required under Credit
318-IND. To act as the financial intermediary in carrying out this investment
program the Government has established a National Fleet Development Company
(P.T. Pembangunan Armada Niaga Nasional - PANN), which will procure and then
make available ships to operationally competent but financially weak RLS
shipping companies. In order to encourage the development of reliable inter-
island shipping which is of vital economic and political importance, the
Government has decided to keep freight rates as low as possible. This in
turn will require PANN to charge interest on its ships sales and leases at



- 11 -
no more than 10 percent per annum, which is five percentage point below the
prevailing long ternm interest rate of State Banks (currenctly 15 percent).
At this level of interest charges, competent shipping companies should be
able to earn an adequate rate of return on new capital to be invested in
the shipping industry.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
General
39.       The consultants retained by the Government to determine the scope
of the inter-island shipping requirements during Repelita II, (1974/79) pre-
pared a Long-Term Fleet Development (LTFD) Report in November 1974 which
recommended an investment program consisting primarily of new ships at a
cost of about $587 million. A Bank Mission discussed the LTFI) Report with
the Government in December 1974 and proposed that the program should be
restructured to include used ships and divided into two phases to take
account of the government's difficult financial situation, the need for
further studies to determine the optimum size of the fleet ancl uncertainties
surrounding the rate of traffic growth that was assumed in the Report. The
proposed project was therefore designed to meet primarily the existing acute
shortage during Repelita II, through the continuation of the rehabilitation
program and procurement of used cargo ships and new cargo and cargo-passenger
ships. Over-age and technically deficient ships which are too costly to repair
would be scrapped. iraining and technical assistance programs related to the
acquisition of ships and improvement of ship operations would also be in-
cluded in the proposed project.
40.       The project was appraised in December 1974 but the Government de-
layed its decision on the specific composition of the project and its financ-
ing and another mission visited Indonesia in June 1975 for further discussions.
A general understanding with the Government on these issues was reached in
October 1975 and negotiations were held in Washington between March 8 and
March 17, 1976; the (Government delegation was led by Dr. Julianto Moeliodiardjo,
Director General of Monetary Affairs, Department of Finance.
Project Description
41.       The projecl: is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program for the period 1974-1979 and is designed
to modernize, expand and improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet.
The project consists of the following elements:
(a) rehabilitat:ion of 54,500 dwt of existing inter-island
ships, where such rehabilitation is economically justi-
fied;



- 12 -
(b)  procurement of about 47 used cargo ships totalling about
52,000 dwt in the 1,000, 1,500, and 2,500 dwt classes
(about 41, 4 and 2 in each class, respectively);
(c)  procurement of about 47 new standard cargo and cargo-
passenger ships totalling about 50,250 dwt in the 750,
1,000 and 1,500 dwt classes (about 13, 21 and 13 in
each class);
(d)  scrapping of about 70,000 dwt of existing inter-island
ships of over 500 dwt which cannot be economically rehab-
ilitated;
(e)  a technical assistance and training program, designed to
support and improve inter-island fleet operations and
planning, and the training of marine officers and
engineers; and
(f)  a study to determine the shipping requirements during the
remainder of Government's Second Five Year Plan (REPELITA
II) and the period up to 1990.
A loan and project summary is attached as Annex III.
Organizations Involved in the Project
42.       The major organizations involved in the maritime sector are the
following:
(i)       P.T. PANN (P.T. Pembangunan Armada Niaga Nasional)
The National Fleet Development Corporation (FANN) was organized in
May 1974 on the advice of the LTFD report to procure and sell or lease ships
to financially weak RLS shipowners. Its authorized capital is Rp. 40 billion
of which only Rp. 2.0 billion ($4.8 miLlion) has been paid in, 60 percent by
the Government and the remaining 40 percent by BAPINDO. Under PANN's charter
a board of supervisors (Dewan Komisaris) sets overall policy and oversees its
operations, while day-to-day operations are managed by a board of management,
or Direksi. PANN's management will be assisted in the execution of the pro-
ject by internationally recruited naval architect-surveyors, legal counsel as
well as shipbrokers, resident financial and technical advisors, all appointed
with the agreement of the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The major policies and procedures to be applied by PANN in its operations
have been agreed with the Bank and are set out in a "Policy Statement for
PANN" which has been adopted by the Dewan Komisaris.
(ii)      BAPINDO
BAPINDO, the state-owned development finance company, would play
an important role in the execution of the project. Applications for the
purchase of new and used ships or for ship rehabilitation would be analyzed



- 13 -
and appraised by EAPINDO, in consultation with PANN, before PANN would decide
on the eligibility of the applicants for lease or sale of ship(s) under the
project. BAPINDO would carry out this task through its Maritime Credit
Department (MCD) which was established to implement the first Inter-island
Fleet Rehabilitation Project financed under Credit 318-IND. The MCD is
staffed with competent personnel and is assisted by advisors in ship finance
and repair. MCD's operations in the last three years have been satisfactory
and the contracts of the advisors financed until February 1976 by UNDP have
been extended and would now be covered by the proposed loan. As of December
31, 1975 about Rp. 1,043 million or 10 percent of BAPINDO's maritime loan
portfolio is in arrears, of which about Rp 554 million on loans to PELNI.
The Government has agreed to make the necessary arrangements to enable PELNI
to settle its arrears to BAPINDO by March 31, 1977.
(iii)     SEACOM
The Directorate General of Sea Communications (SEACOM) within the
Department of Communications is responsible for all maritime operations. In
this capacity SEACOM will have the overall supervisory responsibility for the
project.
(iv)      P.T. PELNI (P.T. Pelayaran Nasional Indonesia)
The largest inter-island shipping company in Indonesia is the
Government-owned P1.LNI, which would also be the major beneficiary of the
proposed project. This company carries about two-thirds of RLS passengers
and 40 percent of cargo traffic. For the past three years the Netherlands
has provided a team of six advisors to help improve PELNI's management and
operations. Although there have been some improvements, the company still
suffers from managerial and operational weakness and is not expected to make
a profit until 1979. The on-going technical assistance from the Netherlands
would therefore continue and would be supplemented by an internationally
recognized management consultant financed under the proposed loan to review
further the company's procedures and operations and to recommend a plan of
action.
Technical Assistance
43.       During the past three years a substantial technical assistance and
training program has been underway in the maritime sector. The Association
(under Credit 318), UNDP, ADB and bilateral lenders, have contributed towards
financing this program which included advisory services to Biro Klasifikasi
Indonesia (BKI-Indonesian Ship Classification Society), SEACOM, BAPINDO and
PELNI as well as improvement of navigational communications and the provision
of navigational aid equipment and ship repairing facilities. It is expected
that most of these programs except those financed by the UNDE' would continue
under the same or aLternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank during
the implementation of the proposed project; funds are included in the pro-
posed loan for advisory services to SEACOM, PELNI and BAPINDO for their
respective technical assistance requirements.



- 14 -
44.       In addition, the project provides for some new technical assist-
ance and training activities: training of marine officers and engineers;
strengthening of financial, administrative and operational capabilities of
the shipping enterprises; review of PELNI's management; specialist services
for shipboard maintenance and repairs for PELNI; a study of future RLS
shipping requirements; revision of Indonesian shipping safety regulations
and provision of naval architects-surveyors, legal counsel, as well as
resident financial and technical advisors for PANN. In order to maintain
contact with the international market for used ships, PANN would also retain
shipbrokers. All these specialists, advisors and technical personnel would
be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to and with the agreement
of the Bank. The Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization
(IMCO) is expected to help the Government carry out the training program for
marine officers and engineers and funds from bilateral sources are likely to
be available for some of the technical assistance requirements.
45.       Out of the Norwegian financing totalling about $110.3 million (see
para 49), about $2.2 million would be used to meet the requirements of the
following technical assistance programs: financial and technical advisors
to PANN, advisory services for the revision of shipping regulations, over-
seas training for the staff of SEACOM, PANN and PELNI, and instructors and
equipment for a shipyard training centre. The proposed Bank loan includes
$3.8 million to meet the foreign exchange cost of the technical assistance
and training not financed from other sources. A total of 570 man/months
consultant services, at a cost of $64,000 per man/year, would be financed
under the proposed loan.
Cost Estimates
46.       The total project cost is estimated at $195.2 million of which
$189.8 million or 97 percent would be in foreign exchange. The following
table summarizes the estimated cost of the project:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Rehabilitation                         3.8           5.7       9.5
Used Ships                                          41.2      41.2
New Ships                                          124.2     124.2
Delivery Costs                                       8.5       8.5
Technical Assistance to:
(a)  PANN                                         0.3        0.3
(b)  Government                      0.4          5.7        6.1
Base Cost                            4.2         185.6     189.8
Expected Price Increases               1.2           1.7       2.9
Physical Contingency                    -            2.5       2.5
Total Project Cost                     5.4         189.8     195.2
Interest During Construction           0.2           6.1       6.3
Total Finance Required                 5.6         195.9     201.5



- 15 -
The prices of new ships are based on fixed price contracts already signed with
Norwegian, Japanese and Indonesian shipyards. Used ship prices are expected
to remain stable during the procurement period to mid-1977, and no provision
for price increases has therefore been made for new and used ships. Costs
of rehabilitation, mainly to be undertaken in Indonesia, are assumed to
increase by 15 percent in 1976, 10 percent in 1977 and 1978 and by 7.5 per-
cent in 1979. Delivery costs are estimated at a fixed amount of $120,000
per ship. Physical contingencies are estimated at $2.5 million.
Financing Plan
47.        The proposed financing plan for the project is summarized below:
Pro-
Total      Japan   Norway                         posed
Project Cost (OECF)   Ln/Grant BAPINDO   PANN (Govt.  Loan  Total
Rehabilitation     12.4 a/       -      -       4.0 b/   1.1 b/-       7.3  12.4
Used Ships         41.2          -      -        5.6 c/   -    -      35.6  41.2
New Ships         124.2         25,0   93.8     5.4 c/    -    -        -  124.2
Delivery Cost       8.5                 3.7       -       -    -       4.8   8.5
Technical Assis-
tance to PANN     0.3         -       0.3      -        -    -       -     0.3
Technical Assis-
tance to Govt.    6.1         -       1.9      -        -    0.4    3.8    6.1
Physical Contin-
gency (used
ships)         _      2.5              -       -              - _          2.5
Total Project
Cost            195.2        25.0     99.7   15.0      1.1   0.4   54.0 195.2
Interest during
Construction d/ _ 6.3          -       -        -       6.3    -       -    6.3
Total
Financing
Required         201.5         25.0    99.7e/ 15.0      7.4   0.4    54.0 201.5
a/   This total includes $2.9 million for expected price increases.
b/   Local currency.
c/   For ships already ordered and to be built in Indonesia; these may
be financed from Loan 1054-IND.
d/   From PANN's cash generation.
e/   Includes funds from a consortium of Banks organized by Norway
(Para. 49).



- 16 -
48.       The Japanese Overseas Cooperation Fund (OECF) has made a loan of
$25 millon to the government at an interest rate of 2-3/4 percent per annum
repayable over 30 years including 10 years of grace. This loan would finance
seven new ships, 750 dwt each, presently under construction in Japan and five
new ships of about 1,000 dwt each likely to be constructed by Indonesian
shipyards. The Government considers the prices of these ships, about $2,000
per dwt, reasonable, when the financing terms are taken into account.
49.       Norway is making available to Indonesia a total of $110.3 million
equivalent of which about $99.7 million would be used to help finance the
project; the balance $10.6 million would be used to finance the purchase of
one used ships, six tug-boats and some technical assistance which are not not
included in the project. The Norwegian financing is composed of three ele-
ments: (i) a grant of about $12.5 million to cover the cost of delivering
new ships built in Norway to Indonesia, to train in Norway the Indonesian
crews who would bring these new ships to Indonesia and to provide instructors
and equipment for a shipyard training centre in Indonesia. The grant would
also include funds amounting to about $2.2 million to finance certain tech-
nical assistance components of the proposed project (see para. 45); (ii) a
loan of about $87.8 million from the Norwegian export credit bank, A/S
EXPORTFINANS, to the government of Indonesia repayable over 15 years includ-
ing a grace period of 3 years at an interest rate of 8-1/2 percent per annum,
plus a single fee of 1.9 percent. The Indonesian Government would use the
proceeds of the loan to finance 90 percent of the cost of 20 new ships to be
constructed in Norway (10 ships in the 1,000 dwt class and 10 ships in the
1,500 dwt class) and the total cost of 6 new ships to be built by the
Indonesian shipyards (3 ships in the 1,000 dwt class and 3 ships in the 1,500
dwt class); (iii) a loan of up to $12 million from a consortium of banks or-
ganized by den Norske Credit Bank to the Indonesian Government repayable over
5 years ending on June 15, 1981. This loan carries an interest rate of 1-7/8
percent over the rate quoted on Eurodollar deposits, plus management and
commitment fees, of 3/4 of 1 percent each. The Government would use the
proceeds of this loan to meet the required down payment of 10 percent for
the 20 new ships to be purchased in Norway. Given the terms of the Norwegian
financing package, the prices of the new ships which would be built in Norway
under contracts based on fixed prices is reasonable.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $54 million would finance 28 percent of
total cost and 29 percent of the foreign exchange cost and would be used to
finance the cost of most of the used ships ($35.6 million) and of the ship
rehabilitation program ($7.3 million), the delivery cost ($4.8 million) of
the used ships financed under the proposed loan, about half of the technical
assistance requirements of the project ($3.8 million) and the physical con-
tingencies ($2.5 million) provided for modifying the used ships financed under
the proposed loan to adapt them for Indonesian shipping services. The pro-
posed loan would be made to the Government at 8-1/2 percent interest per
annum for 15 years including 3 years of grace.



- 17 -
51.       BAPINDO would make a loan of about $15 million equivalent to PANN
at 15 percent interest for up to 15 years for the purchase of new ships,
up to 10 years for used ships and up to 5 years for ship rehabilitation,
all including one year of grace; BAPINDO would use the proceeds of Loan 1054-
IND and Credit 3113-IND as well as BAPINDO's own funds when making available
this loan of $15 nillion to PANN for the purposes of the project.   Contrib-
utions from the Government to the project would be small ($0.4 million) be-
cause the local cost component of the project is very low (about 3 percent).
PANN would be able to generate cash from its own operations to provide for
interest during construction and part of the rehabilitation costs, amounting
to $7.4 million, over the period 1975-1979.
52.       Additional funds for the purchase of inter-island ships may become
available in the future from bilateral lenders and foreign credits and could
be applied to a subsequent project if it is identified. However, due to un-
certainty about traffic growth and cargo handling capabilities, procurement
of inter-island ships in excess of 12,000 dwt over those included in the
project would only take place with the prior agreement of the Bank (Section
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
On-Lending and Relending Terms
53.       It is envisaged that PANN would have an initial debt/equity ratio
of about 50:50 which may change to 65:35 in future. To achieve this, about
half of the funds borrowed abroad by the Government from Japan, Norway and
the Bank would be made available to PANN as equity. The other half would
be relent to PANN at an interest rate of 12 percent per annum apart from
BAPINDO funds. Funds borrowed by PANN for the purchase of new ships would
be for up to 15 years including one year of grace, for the purchase of used
ships up to 10 years including one year of grace and for rehabilitation of
existing ships up to five years, including one year of grace. The terms of
the relending would be set out in a financing agreement between the Govern-
ment and PANN and 3APINDO, respectively, which would be signed before the
proposed Bank loan becomes effective (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The Govermnent would make its equity contributions directly to PANN
but it would use Bank Indonesia and BAPINDO, for a service fee, to administer
the Goverrunent's loan contributions to PANN.
54.       PANN's present paid-in capital is Rp 2.0 billion of which 60 per-
cent is owned by the Government and 40 percent by BAPINDO. As the Policy
Statement of BAPINI)0 includes certain limits for BAPINDO's equity or loan
contributions to a single enterprise, in determining the size of its equity
participation and loan contribution to PANN, BAPINDO would at all times be
bound by the- ceilings included in its Policy Statement.
55.       PANN will sell or lease the ships it will acquire under the pro-
ject to qualified Indonesian operators deemed to be operationally capable
after an appraisal by BAPINDO's MCD and PANN. The terms of the new ship sale
contracts would be as follows: a minimum of 10 percent cash deposit and a one



- 18 -
percent commitment fee, for a maximum repayment period of 15 years, including
six months of grace after the delivery of ship and at an interest rate of 10
percent per annum. Used ships of up to 10 years of age would be sold to
shipping companies with 10 percent downpayment and 20 percent on delivery of
the ship for a maximum repayment period of 10 years, including six months of
grace after the delivery of the ships at an interest rate of 10 percent and
one percent commitment fee. Leases of new ships would be for varying periods
of time, with a maximum of 15 years, calculated at an interest rate of 10
percent with a commitment fee of one percent. Leases of used ships would be
on similar terms to those for new ships except that the term would be a
maximum of 10 years. The length of PANN's lease contracts would be flexible
so that PANN will be able to revalue its assets when the leases are renewed.
The costs of rehabilitating ships will be recovered from ship operators over
up to five years, including three months of grace after the completion of
rehabilitation of the ship, with an interest rate of 10 percent per annum and
a commitment fee of one percent (Schedule to the Project Agreement).
Forecast of Financial Position of PANN
56.       PANN commenced operations early in 1975 and has made commitments
for the purchase of nine new and seven used ships by using its equity funds
and the proceeds of the Japanese loan. It is expected to acquire a total of
47 new and 47 used ships under the project. On the basis of its projected
revenues PANN is estimated to earn a return of about 4 percent on its equity
over the life of the project. Depreciation has been calculated on a straigth-
line basis and therefore PANN's financial statements do not show any net
income until 1979 although it will be generating cash from 1976 onward. By
1980 PANN's debt service coverage is forecast to be 1.5, its current ratio
1.9 and its debt will be about 38 percent of combined debt and equity. These
ratios are satisfactory.
Tariff Implications of the Project
57.       The RLS freight tariff is a cost-based commodity tariff using
a constant factor plus a mileage allowance. It applies to ship operations
only and has been calculated to produce about an 8 percent return on total
capital invested in a modern efficiently operated ship of a representative
size operating over a representative route. As costly new assets are being
introduced into the fleet and leased to RLS companies, the cash requirements
of these companies have increased sharply. Tariffs on freight were therefore
raised by 20 percent in 1973, 20 percent in 1974 and 25 percent in July 1975.
The Government has agreed to continue to review tariffs annually and to make
adjustments, if necessary, to enable shipping companies to earn adequate
returns on their investment (Section 3.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Scrapping of Existing Ships
58.       In order not to create excess shipping capacity in Indonesia, the
Government would synchronize the acquisition of new and used ships with a
program of ship rehabilitation and scrapping.    Ships which are technically



- 19 -
deficient or more than 20 years old or cannot be rehabilitated at a reason-
able cost, would 'be recommended for scrapping. Given the age structure of
the existing fleet and the scheduled delivery dates of new and used ships
included in the project, the Government would scrap, by December 31, 1979
about 70,000 dwt of existing inter-island ships of over 500 dwt. The
Government has already established a committee within SEACOM to prepare
criteria for scrapping and annual scrapping programs; it would by August 31,
1976 inform the Bank of the actual tonnage of ships scrapped between January 1,
1975 and July 31, 1976 and the future scrapping schedules (Section 3.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The Government would also promulgate legislation providing for re-
gistration of mortgages on ships acquired overseas by PANN and sold prior
to delivery. Before this legislation has been promulgated, PANN would not
sell its ships until they arrive in Indonesia, where mortgages can be re-
gistered. It will however be able to lease ships overseas since in this
case PANN would retain the title to the ship.
Procurement
60.       New ships will be procured under separate bilateral arrangements
between Indonesia and Norway and Japan, respectively. The specifications
for these ships which were developed by naval architects, Bureau Voor
Scheppsbouw (BVS) (The Netherlands) and financed by the Netherlands, are
acceptable to the Bank.
61.       Used ship procurement is more complex because the ships are likely
to be located far from Indonesia and be available for inspection only on short
notice. Each such purchase is unique and has to be individually negotiated
following detailed inspection. Some ships will also need repairs or modi-
fications before they can be used for Indonesian service. Instead of using
international competitive bidding, which would be inappropriate, PANN's con-
sultants, includinly naval architect/surveyors, shipbrokers (exclusively
representing PANN), resident financial and technical advisors, and legal
counsel will assisi: PANN in canvassing the international market to identify
appropriate used ships and in negotiating appropriate purchase contracts and,
any necessary repai'rs. PANN's used ship procurement contracts would be based
on documents satisiactory to the Bank and PANN will buy a used ship only after
the Bank has approved PANN's detailed appraisal report of the ship operator
and the purchase price of the ship and after the ship has been properly
inspected.
62.       International competitive bidding is also impractical in the case of
ship rehabilitation, because the cost of each repair is relatively small and
is likely to involve the purchase of a wide variety of proprietary parts.
After a survey by PANN and BAPINDO of the repair needs of the ships to be
rehabilitated, rehabilitation will be carried out under a negotiated contract
between PANN and the shipyard concerned, this procedure is identical to that
followed under Credit 318-IND. Rehabilitation work will be undertaken mainly



- 20 -
in Indonesian shipyards. Funds for shipyard improvement are available from a
variety of sources, including Loan 1054-IND. The Norwegian grant also provides
for instructors and equipment for a shipyard training centre in Indonesia and
for overseas training in shipyard operations.
63.       The proposed loan also includes provision ($1.0 million) for special-
ized equipment suitable for a maritime training school. It is expected that
procurement of this equipment will be undertaken by IMCO as procurement agent
of the Government using procedures agreed with the Bank including, where
appropriate, international competitive bidding or international shopping.
Disbursement
64.       The proposed loan would be disbursed on the following bases:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for used ships; deli-
very of used ships, training equipment and foreign consultants;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures or 60 percent of local
expenditures for ship rehabilitation or modification; and
(c)  80 percent of local expenditures for Indonesian consultants.
65.       Conditions for disbursement from the proposed loan would be as fol-
lows: When requesting the Bank's authorization to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account for the purchase or rehabilitation of a ship, the Government
would furnish to the Bank: (i) an appraisal by BAPINDO and PANN of the
technical, operational and financial conditions of the shipping enterprise
concerned and its ships; (ii) a statement from SEACOM indicating which ships,
if any, of the shipping enterprise concerned are to be rehabilitated or
scrapped; (iii) a certified copy of the contract (development agreement)
between PANN and the shipping enterprise concerned executed pursuant to the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and (iv) (a) in respect
of the purchase of a used ship, a description of the ship, certified copies of
the purchase contract and the bill of sale, a certificate issued by SEACOM
that the ship meets the Government's licensing requirements and will be
registered, a deletion certificate transferring ownership of the ship from
the seller to the buyer, confirmation by PANN that the ship is acceptable, and
a certificate issued by an internationally recognized ship classification
society acceptable to the Bank that the ship meet the recognized classification
standards; or (b) in respect of the rehabilitation of a ship, a description of
the rehabilitation works to be carried out, a certified copy of the contract
between PANN and the shipyard that would carry out the works, and certificates
issued by SEACOM and BKI showing that the rehabilitation works are designed to
meet at least the Government's shipping regulations and BKI's classification
standard (paras. 4(b) and 5 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       In order to expedite project implementation some of the consultants
would be employed before the signing of the Loan Agreement. It is therefore
proposed that expenditures estimated at about US$200,000 equivalent made
after January 31, 1976 for such consultants be reimbursed from the proposed
loan.



- 21 -
Economic Benefits and Justifications
67.       Implementation of many programs in REPELITA II depends to a large
extent on improved shipping services. The transmigration of people from Java
to other islands, improved agriculture and development of agriculture-based
industries in the outer islands, and exchange of processed goods and raw
materials between Java and the other islands, all depend on shipping. In
this regard, providing adequate and reliable inter-island shipping services
in Indonesia is similar in importance to the maintaining of adequate land
transport facilities-in many other countries.
68.       Inter-island cargo traffic is expected to increase at a rate of
between 10 percent and 15.5 percent per annum in the period 1974-79 reaching
4.4-5.8 million tons in 1979 compared to about 2.5 million tons in 1973.
In the same period passenger traffic could grow from about 365,000 to
976,000 or by about 18 percent per year provided ships are available and
can render reliable services. The project would help meet the growing demand
for shipping by adding new and used ships to the existing fleet and by in-
creasing the productivLty of existing ships through rehabilitation of useable
old ships and scrapping of others.
69.       This is expected to result in an increase in the number of days a
ship is in service, i.e. an average ship productivity increase from only 9 to
10 cargo tons per dwt Ln 1972 to at least about 15 tons per dwt in 1979.
70.       In addition, the proposed project would help improve management
capabilities of public or private organizations involved in the maritime
sector through technical assistance and training programs and provide a firm
basis for future investment decisions in the further expansion o[ the inter-
island fleet through monitoring of traffic developments with the assistance
of SEACOM's advisors and other studies included in the project.
71.       The economic rate of return on the overall project wouLd be about
18 percent; 19 percent on used ships costing $41.2 million and 15 percent on
new ships totalling $124.2 million. The return on the rehabilitation component
costing $12.4 million would be well over 100 percent. Although the rate of
return on used ships would be higher than that on new ships, the Government
included new ships in the project in order to utilize external funds which
would be available mostly for the purchase of such ships. A program mixture
of new and used ships and rehabilitation would also allow the Government to
begin ship standardization, improve the age distribution of the existing fleet
and to provide work for Indonesian shipyards.
Project Risks
72.       In the past, i:he enforcement of safety regulations and classifica-
tion standards has been lax. Should this situation continue under the pro-
ject, the result would be a reduced ship scrapping and rehabilitation pro-
gram and continued operation of many obsolete and unsafe vessels. Owners
operating such ships having little or no book value would be able to undercut



- 22 -
the official freight rates which would need to be set at levels providing
adequate revenues to enable ship operators to pay for new ships. This
would reduce the incentives for ship operators to participate in the project.
In order to help deal with these problems the following measures, in addition
to proposed enforcement of safety standards, would be taken:
(a) the provision of substantial financial incentives to
ship operators, through lower interest rates and
increased freight rates determined on the basis of
the costs of efficient operation;
(b) implementation of the scrapping and rehabilitation pro-
grams under a specific schedule related to new ship
acquisition;
(c) new administrative orders issued by SEACOM calling for timely
and proper ship inspection and reducing the dispensation
period permitted until next inspection;
(d) ensuring proper physical maintenance of ships under PANN's
supervision and the improvement of shipping companies'
operations through training as a lease or loan contract
requirement;
(e) a technical assistance program for training ship crews,
reviewing safety regulations, maintaining navigational
aid equipment, and for the provision of advisory services
to SEACOM, PELNI, PANN, BAPINDO and BKI.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, draft Project Agreement between PANN, BAPINDO and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
74.       Features of the draft Agreements of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 42, 52, 53, 55, 57, 58 and 65 of this report. A special
condition of effectiveness would be that a financing agreement specifying
on-lending terms has been signed between the government, PANN and BAPINDO.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
April 16, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page I of ' pages
TABLE 3A
INDONESIA                SOIA     NDCOSDAASHEET
LANDO AREA (THOU CM2).....                                                               .....
---------------                         ~~~~~~INDONESIA                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970,
TOTAL       5904.3                                           MOST RECENT
AR4BLE        279.8                         1 960       1 9170  ESTIMATE            BANGLADESH      I NDIA           PHILIPPI1NES
;0P POR CAP ITk CUSS)                          600         100. 0             a3.             80.0        11I.0        2 20. 0
COPUL4TION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)                 95.4        115.6        124 .4                70 .8       5 3 8.1       3 6 .9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                             50 .0        61 .0        65.C                 9 6. 0      1 698.0      1 23. 0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LANr)                  4...                   I26.o                84 .0.       35 0. 0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND              43.00 ak     42.0         4 2 .0               4 .0         308. 0        .5.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND               10O2.                    21.0                 21.0         16.0         12.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)            1 25 . 0 a b      ..                            140.        1 0C          8o.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             '.8.0        4 7. 0       51.0                '48.0         NO.0 :0      5 6.:0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     2.0a         3 .2         3 .1                 3 .1         2 .9         3. 3
POPULATION GRONTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                       2.1          '.0          2.0                  2.7          2.3          1.0
UR1AUN                                       ..          3.6          3.2                   ..4.0                    4.0
URBAiN POPULATICN (I OF TOTAL)               1 5 .0       11.0         18.0                    ..         0 .1        32. 0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                            42 .1        4 4.1        4 4.1                    .         4 2 .0      43. 1
Ii TO 64 YEARIS                            5 5. 4        1. 4        5 3. .4                           5 5 .0      5 3. 4
65 YEARS AND OVCR                           2.5          2.51         2.5                   .           3.0          3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                          0.8          0. 9         0.9                               0 .    0.     A.
ECONOMIC OEPENOENCY RATIO                     1 . 3                     1 .5                    .1 .2 /a               1.5
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                 ..         34.2      4008.2                    ...                   276.'
USEPS CX 01   MARRIED WiOMEN)                             ...                                ..                       .)
EMPLOY4ENT
TOTAL LA3RO   FORCE (THOUSAND)            !4600.0..                40tCC.0               22 3 0 0.0  2 2 1C(I .0 /b 12100.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CZ)               68.0           .          62.0                 11.0         ?11.0        51.0
UNEMPLOYED (S OF LAROR FORCr)                 5.4          2. 0         5. 4                              3 .0 /c      2.*
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
1 OF PR IVATE INCOME RECO0 BY-
HIGHEST    51 CF POPULATION                  I....                                         6.?         25.   d
HIGHEST 201 CF POPULATION                    .             ..                             4 2.:3  a    53.1~
LOW E ST  2 O1 OF POPULATION                 ....                       .19                             4.7 /
LOW~EST   4 01 EF POPULATION.                                           .                 19.6         13.1I
DIS T R ISU TITDN Of LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP IOZ OF OWNERS480/                             ..                             3 4.0
1  WE  YSMALLEST 101 OANEPS             3.I. .10
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 61000.0      21650.0      23880.0                1600.0       48C.0.
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                  .        8010. 0      696 0. 0            72 03.0       511 0.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED                1050.0       1720.0       1450.0               90210.0      1620.3        050.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREMENTS.'              89.0        09.0          0 3 . 0                           9 3 .0       8 5.04
PROTEIN (DRAMS PEN DAY)                    43.0         43.0         38.0                   ..          3.0         45.0
'OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSl:             15.0         14.0             ..                             16.0        22.0
CEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                    .             ..                                ..                      7.0
EDUCA TION
ADJUSTED ENROILLMENT RATIO-
PRIMARY SCHOOL                             40.  /       r710         80.0                 s0.0  d      19.         11 9.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                            6.0         1.            601.                             290          4.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(PIRST AND SECONO LEVEL)                   12.0         12.0         12.0                 10.0/,       12.0         10.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                           20.0        28. 0        28.0                   0.0          6.0 /e      10.0 /a.b
ADULT LItERACY RATE CI)                      47.0           .          60.0 1kb.
HOUS ING
PE R-;ONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                    I.                         . 6
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER C?)                               ..                     44.01                  ..           .          66. 0b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                          ..                    64.0C..                                        2 3.0 /b
MURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                           3..                      9.0                   6. 0. 6.
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO  RECEIVERS (PER THOU PD)P)              7.0        114.0           .                   6.          21.0         45.0
PASSENGER CNRS (PER THOU POP)                 1 .0         2. 0         3.0                   1.0         1.0          8. 0
ELECTRICITY (RAN/YR PER CAP)                 19.0         20.0         2 3. 0               11.0        111 I.0      2 35. 0
NEWSPRINT (KQG/YR PER CAP)                    0.2          0. 2         0. 2                   .0 . 3                  1.2 /
-- I-------------------------------------- :.............
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



pg   ofL pageB
NOTES
Unless otherwiae noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and1 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recent Eatimas.e between
1971 & 1973.
-0  The Philippine. baa been selected as an objective country for its geographical similarity end bsoaUae Of ite apparent advaced stage of
ecoooaic developmet.
INDONESIA       1%      /   Excludes West Iran;         1963;   /c  i961-6.3.
197(0 /a Registered applicants for work.
CDST flCENT FSTIM&TEz /a Unesployed workers seeking their first job; /b 10 years and ove r, ability to ream and write in eitber
Latin or nom-tatin characters;    &   Inside only.
NANOA&DESH     1970     /a  1966-61, househotds;   /b   Registered, not all pmacttcing to ttn country;    jc  G-ovrnment hospital eatablioh.snts
Only;   /d Akpproximate esrolleet as percentage of population in, i-1n, end 11-is age groups reopecti-esty;     /e  Up
to end of socco d level.
INDIA          1971;    /a  RMtto of population under 19 and 60 and Over to labor force age 15-59 yeara;     Lb kIi  eetleate of labor force t
age group 15-59. lBRD report gives a figure of 180.9 sillion baeod on 1971 poplation cenas.. The difference is
doe to changes in the defInition of a worker. In the 1971 census, persons were classified only on the basis of their
nato activities.   lhis led to the exclusion of several categories sock as, houseaivee;    c  Regiaterod applicanto
for work;   /d   1967-66, households;   /o  19,65.
FRIIPPINES      1970    A   Public education only;    /b  1967;   /c  Imports only.
El0, April 21, 1976
IENFTNTIIONS OF SOCIAL INEEICAI'RS
boAd Area (to    o'                                                                   ouelnnrnrievra                   ouaicdivided by number Of practi-
TOta -TotalsOurface .,ares    . oprisinc Land area end inlaod  aters,                  clgsleFifao            raduae nores-, "trained" or "c.ertified" nurses,
ha-ric. - msgct recent ontias te of anioco    -ae   used t-opor-rfly on per-           and auxiliary personnel witht training or empenience.
na-etty for crps, p-scure, corkc & hitohos gardens or to Ho. fallow.               Populetlo  p or hospital led - Popolotirn divided by number of bospital
beds available in public and pri-te geosro cod speciali-ed hospital
GNP        is    0$   - GNP per capita estimates at market prices, colo-.              sod rehabilitation centers; emolodes nurstog hor   neosd sotablisheents
saTEl7    conSversion method an World Bonk Atlas (1972-7h bavis).                for custodial end preventive core
Per capita supl of VoAis(          frocenno            optdfo
9ptpp  n l 8nd vital statistics                                                       .nerr  equivalen'T.ofne  roodsupplie   snaeilble in country per
P~jlionni-m                 rA     of July first; if not Available, overage            capita per day: available supplies comprtoe dosestic prod.ntion,
ortcn-year cc   tee..                                                           imports less s,pOrto, a.l chances in stock; net sopplisose-uodo
an mal feed, ..sda, q-atities o-d it foo.d proceostog and loose
Ponbator dest        prsu       re  o  Mid-year population per oqaekilo-               to distribution; requiremnets worn estlivoted by FAO based on ph9'sl-
meter  100 hectaree) of total erra.                            ~~ologloa1 needs for normL activity ond health conidering socorun-
opulatioc dnIy        eruuoa- in oagric. land - Compvuted oo above for                 mental temperature, body weighto, age end smc distributiono of pop.-
agictr;Lnd only                                                              lation, and allowing 10% for waoie ot boweohcld level.
Per capita spZ    of rot:F (,rams per da)- Protoin contentiof per
Octal statistics                                                                       caiantspl           ffo     e   a;ot supply of food io dfind a
r"de hire]; rate pert, thuad - Anusa Lice births per thousand of mid-                  above; requiremnets for all countries esoabliahed by U1SIA Economic
year populainusly fime-yenr averages ending to 19,60, 1977 and                        Research Services provide fun a mionion alloanc    of 60 grooms of total
1975 for davloping countries.                                                        proteto per day, and 20 grams cf animal And puloe proteio, of which 10
trde death rate per thous,-d - inmos   maths per thousand of odd-year                 gram.o should ho ani-1 protein; tiss   stadards or eIlowe   than those
nP.  le"" n   usual  fleyear avereages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  of 75 grass of tonal1 protein -,d 23 gram  Of animal protein asa    -vr-
for developing countries,                                                            age for th. world, proposed by FAO ton the Third World Fond Survey.
Enfest =ootall5y.te,Jf59u      -1 Annual doaths of tofants under one year            Per capita prEoteinsplyfo       animal. Ian  pulse -Protein supply of fond
of age      th petflvirho                                                            deie      rmaiasadpl              ngasper dy
Lifeq- Ocyat birth     ,rs) -  verage number of years of life remain-                  rate t  lthou  aeso 1-9 .- Annual doath. per thoosand in age group 1-4c
icg t bfrthr; usually rves-year --srge    ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975            7bears     cl&ninT        il   ge group; suggested as    n tdioatr of sal-
for developing co     e.ntrition.
Grss rerduction rte - Average number of line daughters a woman. will
boor in her norsoal reproduc tive periodi If she excperienneo present age-          Education
s,pecific fertility rules; usually five-year averages ending In 1960,              Adjuste  enol ent ratio       rImr shool, -Enrollnent of all ages as
1970 and 1979 for developing countries,                                              pecnaeo         roaysho-g          ouaion; Includes ohildrsn aged
P.P opltion growth rat, 8      oa     Compound annual growth.rates of mid-             6-il years but adlustod for different lengths of primary educatios,
year populato    fr1564-O,     96-70, and 1960 to mast receni year.                   for countries with universal edarati-o, enrollment may   -exed 100%
Populeation crowth rate (%) - urban - Competed like growth rate of total                since some pupils are below or above the Official school oge.
ppltton; different defrinlons of urban areaso may affect copr-Adluoteenolmnt rti                             secndr OsYchool - Cooputed as above; second-
hirity pof data among countriescred                                                             to   rquest.latfr years of approved primary instruc-
Ura 'ppltion ( of total  - Ratio of urban to total population;                    tion; pmroides geerni., vocational or teacher training instruction for
different defiovitin   or urban areasmay affect comparability of Ants                pupi-ls of 12 in 17 yeoars of age; correspondence cour.- are generally
amn  countries.                                                                     exlded.
11-:1s ctu, iercnt)- Childre  (0)-lb years), woking age (25-64 years),         Years  f schooling provided (first and second ees) - Total years of
and retired (65 yearn andl over) ams percentages of mld-yea  population,              schooling; at secondary level, Vocational intution nay he porctioly
Age dependecy ratio-Raiofppltnude15nd6 an d over to                                     or completely excluded.
those Mfaes 19trugh 69.                                                            Vocational enrollment (8 of secoodaf) - Vocational isotitutiosm    Include
Economic d.epedec~yratiog- gRatio of population under 19 aod 69 and over                techomica.l, industrial or other programo which operate todependently
to the labo      foc  nae group of 15-64 years.                                       or aso departmenta of sec ondry Institutione.
Pan,i1vnlam ajo- acceDtors (m-osati-re   tho.u) - Cumulative nssaber of             Adult9Alitegyrae 1       -literate adult. (able to red and wrnte) On
acceptorn of birth conto    device unAr auspices of national. family                 3uThji.Tli           adlt population aged 15 years and oner.
planning program since inception.
family planning - users (% of married women) - Percetages of maried                   Housing
womon of child-bearing age (15-Li ye=rs   who use birth-control devices             Persona oer room  av-era    - A-arge number of persons per roos to Occupied
to all married woman In same, ago group.                                             convEentional dwelings In urban areas; dwellingo exlude non-parelnent
structures and unoccupied pats.
Occupied healinas wlotu Piped water (%     O-ccupiad convetional dwell-
TE!fSrfor,e,(jthousand) - Economically active persons, including                Ing; i urb    n an rua    reas withiout Inside or outside piped water
armed forcs ad     nemloed but excluding housewives, students, etc.;                  facilities as pewceontage of all ocoupied dwellings.
definitions in vorioun countries are sot comparable.                               Access to electricity (% of all dwellings) - Umaventional dw,lltcgn with
lbrforce in agEiculture    ) - Agricultural labor force (in farsuing,               electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
foretry7     rintingiEandishing) as percentage cf total labor force,                  sod rural areas.
of.         bordforce)p -oUnemployed are usually defined as persons           Rural dwsllingpsm     otdtelcriy            )-Cmuedashvfrrrl
who are a    )iHillIgceto takesaAob,noutofs.job ona      gIvenday.                   dwellns    nY.
remained out of a o,sdsekn            okfr a specified miniennnn
period not exceedng 000 week; may not be comparable between countries              9gp     ti74n
due to different definitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g.,              WC[4jjj7_iverz jpp        tio2a_2) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
employment Office etatistics, sample survoys, compulsory    neriploymnset             casts to generai po blc per thousand of population; exccludes on-
insurance,                                                                           licensed receivers in countries aend in years when regintretion of
radio sets was in, effect; data fur recent years May not be comparable
jn94A,dgtriho   t4gp  - Paeretage of private income (both An cash sodasince suet countries shlinhed licensing.
k(ind)Yecaiiveby richest 9%, ricbest 20%, poorest 20%. andf poorest                 Passe.er care     sr thou ho) - Passenger oars cosprise entor care seat-
40% of households.                                                                    ing less tesight persona; excudes ambulances, imar~ses and
Distribottion ofdlen   owo  hers   - Percentages of lend owned by wealth-             Elmrcitvc(kwh/iM'Dr t       - Annual consumption of indestrial, corner-
test 10% and poorst 10%    f land owners.                                            E3I7ilhIpublic  d privsts eleCtricity in kllowq.tt boors per capita;
generally hosed on production data, without allowance for losses to
Health and Nutritipn                                                                    grids but allowing for impor ts and exPorts of electrIcity.
tion -r           oplaio    dviedbynube o pacicn                          IRpi9g..Eg_: ap) - Per capita Annual concsumption in kilogramls
"tyIdihI quail? ted from a medical school at university level.                        itsiefidhestic production plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$    *Lr      %                      196 -65          1965 -70         1974
GNP at Market Prices       22479          100.0                       1.9              4.9             5.6
Gross Domestic Investment   43:30          19.3                       3.3             11.5            19.2
Gross National Saving       4336           19.3                       5.8              5.1            64.8
Current Account Balance        6            0.0
Exports of Goods, NFS       6755           30.0                       1.5              7.8             0.5
Imports of Goods, NFS       5527           24.6                      0.2              10.9            33.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added-                Labor Force-/                 V. A. Per Worker
U-S' Mln.     ,Hln.                       %                  US--$       J_
Agriculture                  14221      44.8                30.5     69.0                  138       65
Industry                     1915       20.3                3.0       6.8                  638       300
Services                     3.79       34.9                 8,3     18.8                  395      185
Unallocated                    .         -                   2.4      5.4
Total/Average           I                                                          -0          0:
797       1000                  4.      100.0                 21-1      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
( RD BLn. ) ofoGDP
(1q974E75   1974        TM7
Current Receipts                          1759      17.9        15.0
Current Expenditure                       1001      10.2        10.8
Current Surplus                                      7.7        -14.2
Capital Expenditures                       966       9.8         7.3
External Assistance (net)                  234       2.4         3,2
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                1970         1971       1972        1973        1974       1975
(Billimn Rp. outstanding end periodT           une
Money and Quasi Money                    330          469         695        987        1452        1776
Bank credit to Public Sector              57          129         58          37       -   2       - 29
Bank Credit to Private Sector            306          451        555         936        1126        1837
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDiP         9.9         12.8        15.2        14.6       114.8
General Price Index(Sept. 1966"1O0)      612          638        680         891        1253
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                       12.3          4.2         6.6       31.0        40o6
Bank credit to Public Sector            - 5.0         126.3      - 55.0     - 36.2          0
Bank credit to Private Sector             77.9         47.4        23.0       68.6        20.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp. 390 = US$1.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedit consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-7 4)
1972     1973     1974                                              US $ Mili  _
(Millions US $) Est.
Oil                               2260     59.1
Exports of Goods, NFS         1757     2957     6755             Rubber                             359      9.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         1875     3170     5527             rimber                             513     l3.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -j   -M       -77       T78              Palm Oil                            93      2.4
TibI                               104      2.7
Interest Payments (net)      - 46     -     C)  -  6Offee                                            814     2.2
Workers' Remittances            -        -
Other Factor Payments (n t s - 318    - 543)    lll.5
Net Transfers                - 361    -593     i222                All other commoditie-s           IlC1    l008
Balance on Current Account   - 482   -7   T    .                       Total                      3823    100.0
Direct Foreign Investmenit     258      290      471            9LXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               1447     62-1    1072                                                      US $ MLn
Amortization              -  7C    - 138      231
Subtotal                    377      486      841               Public Debt, Lncl. guaranteed           5895
Capital Grants                  ..       ..       ..               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            181      208,1 l  628               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.c.i               98          )     .,
Increase in Reserves (+)       1432     325      690            oDEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-
Gross Reserves (end year)      574     8RN6     1) '73 I
Net Reserves   (end year)      458      783     1473               Public Debt. Lncl. guaranteed            7.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
l'ue1 and Related Materials                                        Total outstanding & Disbursed
1mports                       14        4
of which: Petroleum          2        2         1
Exports                      877     1348     i455
of which: Petroleum         877    1348      4',56     IBRD/IDA LENDING, (,Kar. 31  1976) (Million US $)
IBRD        IDA
RATE: OF EXCHANGE                                                                                     D
-hro  h Jul.  1971  since Aurrnat ~                Outstanding & Disbursed             93.8        332.0
Throuplh Jul)    1971         Since Augrtl 1971              Undisbursed                        367.2        229.8
ilS 9 1.00 = -P. 375          US $ l.OO =FP. 415             Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       461. 
1.00 = US $0.0027             1.00 = US $0.0024
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Servicesp
witF oil exports net of factor payments and imports of the oil sector
. not available
. not applicable
April , I , 1976



ANN3X II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDCNESIA
A. STATEKENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS ( as of February 29, 1976)
Loan/                                                        US $ Million
Credit       Fiscal                                    Amount (less cancellation)
Number        Year          Purpose                     Bank   IDA Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                 11.0
154           1969   'Highway                                 28.0     0.2
155           1969    Agricultural Estates                    16.0     0.2
165           1970    Electricity Distribution                15.0     0.2
193           1970    'JSRI Fertilizer                        35.0     0.1
194           1970    Second Agricultural Estates             17.0     2.4
195           1970    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation        18.5     1.0
210           1971    releconmunications Expansion            12.8     0.2
211           1971    Fisheries                                3.5     G.2
219           1971    Education                                4.6     0.6
220           1971    Third Irri.gation Rehabilitation        14.5     1.8
246           1971    Seeds                                    7.5     2 5
259           1971    Tea                                     15.0     4.2
260           1971    Second Highway                          34.0     5.1
275           1972   'Third Technical Assistance               4.0     1.0
288           1972    Second Education                         6.3     4.7
289           1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation        12.5     2.0
300           1972    Population                              13.2     8.2
310           1972   ]Development Finance Co. (BAUINDO I)     10.0     1.5
318           1972    Enter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation        8.5     4.3
319           1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates             11.0     6.8
334           1973    Second Electricity Distribution         hO.0    16.5
355           1973    Beef Cattle Development                  3.6     2.4
358           1973   lNorth Swuatera Smallholder Development   5.0     3.1
387           1973    'third Education                        13.5    10.9
388           1973    Third Highway                           1.4.0     7.2
399           1973    jiest Java Thermal Power                 46.o   32.9
400           1973   .1ballholder and Private Estate Tea        7.8    7.3
405           1973    3ugar Industry Rehabilitation            50.0   32.1
428           1974    lulo Gadung Industrial Estate           16.5    14.7
436           1974    Private Development Finance Co. (PDFCI) 1.0.0     8.2
451           1974   EIburth Techdical Assistance               5.0     4.2
479           1974    Bali Tourism                            16.0    15.3
480           1974    Fisheries Credit                          6.5     6.3
514           1975   J'atiluhur Irrigation Extension           30.0    29.5



ANNEX II
Page 2 oi: 1
(Continued)
Loan/                                                        US $ Million
Credit     Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellation)
Number      Year          Purpose                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
1005        1974     Railway                           48.0               46.6
1040        1975    Jakarta Urban Development          25.0               18.5
1049        1975    Five Cities Water Supply           14.5               13.6
1054        1975    Development Finance Co.
(BAFPINDO II)                   50.0               46.4
1089        1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion       115.0               57.3
1100        1975    Sixth Irrigation                   65.0               64.7
1127        1975    Fourth Power                       41.0               41.0
1139        1976    Fertilizer Distribution            68.0               64.4
1179        1976    Agricultural Research and
Extension                      21.5               21.5
1197        1976    National Resource Survey           13.0               13.0
and Mapping
TOTAL                             461.0    561.8     624.8
of which has been repaid            -        -         -
461.0    561.8
Amount Sold               0.1
of which has been repaid  0.0       0.1
Total now held by Bank and
IDA (prior to exchange
adjustment)                 460.9    561.8
Total undisbursed                 387.0    237.8     624.8
=====    ==p==     =3===
a/ Approved in FY 1975 but signed in FY 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
S-ATEMAT (OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 29. 1976)
Fiscal                                                          US $ MEllion
Year                                                      Lpan    Equity   Total
1971     P.T. Semen C:Lbinong          Cement              10.6     2.5      13.1
1971     P.T. Urdtex                   Textiles              2.5    0.8       3.3
1971     P.T. Primate.co Indonesia     Textiles              2.0    0.5       2.5
1971     P.T. Kabel Iidonesia          Cable-                2.8    0.4       3.2
1972     P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. C,orp.            Textiles              h.5   1.5        6.0
1973     P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism             11.0       -      11.0
1973     P.T. Semen CiLbinong          Cement                5.4    0.7       6.1
1974     P.T. Primatexco Indonesia     Textiles              2.0    0.3       2.3
1974     P.T. Monsanto Pan
Electrorics              Electronics          0.9     -         0.9
1974     P.T. PDFCI                    Devlp. Fin. Co.        -     0.5       0.5
1974     P.T. Kamaltexc                Textiles              2.4    o.6       3.0
1974     P.T, Semen Cibinong           Cement               .5.     1.5       6.5
TOTAL                49.1    9.3      58.4
Less: sold or
repaid and
cancelled    20.2    1.5       21.7
TOTAL now held       28.9    7.8      36.7
~= =__         _ ,=_
Undisbursed
ncluding parti-
cipant's portion)     5.4    1.5       6.9



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 127:       Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$5 Million Credit of
September 6, 1968; Effective Date: March 25, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
All civil works were completed on March 31, 1976. Additional
drainage work will be carried out under Loan 1100-IND. The proposed Irrigation
VII Project would provide funds for tertiary development under this project
and other on-going irrigation projects. The closing date has been postponed
by one year to allow for payment of late accounts. The adequacy and timeliness
of operation and maintenance of completed irrigation rehabilitation projects
has been recently discussed with the Government. As a result the Government
has allocated for operation and maintenance for the present fiscal year an
amount double that of last year's budget.
Cr. No. 154:       Highways:  US$28 Million Credit of June 20, 1969;
Effective Date: October 2, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975.
Rehabilitation work, of acceptable quality, has been
completed,. The work accomplished exceeded the project's original target.
The program for improved highway maintenance included in the project has
been completed. A project completion report is being prepared for issuance
before June 30, 1976.
Cr. No. 155:       Agricultural Estates:   US$16 Million Credit of June 20,
1969; Effective Date: December 10, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
With improvements in management and much higher inter-
national prices, particularly for palm oil, prevailing in 1974, the
financial position of the estate groups has improved. The field and
factory standards have now been raised to a good technical level and
the managements have been advised to concentrate on cost control in order
to prepare for the time when produce prices may become less attractive.
The combined efforts of the management, consultants and IDA missions
to review project implementation are yielding good results. The closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1976 to enable payment to con-
sultants for services for other rubber estates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purpcrt to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
Cr. No. 165:      Electricity Distribution:   US$15 million Credit of
October 29, 1969; Effective Date: June 1, 1970i
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The closing date was postponed to December 31, 1975, to
allow for payment of small amounts outstanding. The project completion re-
port will be prepared in conjunction with that for Credit No. 334.
Cr. No. 193:      PUSRI Fertilizer:   US$35 Million Credit of June 15,
1970 (as amended May 21, 1973); Effective Date:
January 15, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The urea plant has successfully passed its performance
test and is operating at close to rated capacity. The gas gathering
and transmission system is also completed and sufficient gas is being
delivered to the plant. The closing date has been postponed to December
31, 1976 to allow for delivery and installation of remaining equipment.
Cr. No. 194:       Second Agricultural Estates:  US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Effective Date: February 9, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
After initial delays, there have been considerable
improvements in management and these, combined with high prices, particular-
ly for palm oil, have resulted in the two estate groups being put in a
much stronger financial position. On the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort
is necessary to improve agricultural standards and tapping methods. With
the rapid expansion of -investment of the palm oil group (PNP VI), there is
a need to employ expertise in financial planning, control and management,
which are now the main constraints to efficient development. This estate
group is undertaking act:ion in this respect. The closing date has been
postponed by one year to allow payment for remaining equipment, civil
works and consultants' contracts.
Cr. No. 195:       Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$18.5 Million Credit
of JurLe 15, 1970; Effective Date: December 31, 1970;
Closirng Date: November 30, 1976.
Problems of quality and progress of construction still
exist, but the project etntity assisted by the consultants are tackling
these vigorously, and the situation is improving, although not sufficiently
to make up for earlier delays. Costs are likely to be double the overall
appraisal estimate, due to inflation, but the Government will provide any
additional funds required. Completion of disbursements will be about two
years behind the original schedule.
Cr. No. 210:      Telecommunications Expansion:    US$12.8 Million Credit
of July 13, 1970; Effective Date: February 18, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The project has been completed except for the installation
of the telex exchange at Medan, which is now expected to be in service by



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
June 1976. The delay in completion of the Medan telex exchange was due to
late completion of a building to house the exchange. The closing date of
the Credit has been extended up to June 30, 1976, which should be suffi-
cient to allow for payments of outstanding contracts. The audit of finan-
cial statements for FY1973 is expected to be completed in May 1976 and
efforts are being made to ensure timely audit in future.
Cr. No. 211:      Fisheries:   US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13, 1970;
Effective Date: January 15, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976.
The project is about two years behind the original schedule due
to delays in engaging consultants and in executing contracts for the shore
facilities. There has been a substantial project cost increase but the
project is still expected to be financially viable due to the greatly
increased skipjack prices. Government has recently appointed new project
management. The first stage of operation of project facilities is expected
to start shortly.
Cr. No. 219:       Education:  US$4.6 Million Credit of November 6, 1970;
Effective Date: January 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Project implementation in the Department of Education
is satisfactory. Civil works for the five Technical Training Centers
(TTCs) have been completed. About 90 percent of the equipment has been
purchased and about 60 percent delivered and installed. All TTCs will
operate at full capacity by January 1976 when the new academic year begins.
Over 500 technical teachers have completed or are about to complete their
training. Technical assistance financed by the U.K. for the project is
also satisfactory. Disbursement has improved considerably. Revised
total project cost is now about 40 percent above appraisal estimate. The
Government will finance the cost overrun. The project is expected to be
completed about three months ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 220:       Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$14.5 Million Credit
of November 6,1970; Effective Date: May 28, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Construction remains about two to three years behind
schedule. The problems which caused this delay - difficulties in preparation
of contract document, late financial allocations, heavy rains in the 1973 con-
struction season and, more recently, slow response by GOI to high inflation
rates and consequent civil works costs overruns - have been mainly overcome,
but time lost cannot be regained. Estimated project cost is 50 percent above
the appraisal estimate, but with higher rice prices on the world market, the
project's economic rate of return remains over 20 percent. The closing date
has been postponed by 18 months as a result of project delay.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
Cr. No. 246:      Seeds:  US$7.5 Million Credit of May 19. 1971;
Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
Significant progress has been made in the construction
of the irrigation infrastructure and in land development at the National
Seeds Corporation (NSC). Construction is proceeding satisfactorily and is
now 70 percent completed. The inadequacy of NSC management at the opera-
tional level is reflected in technical production problems, low yields of
seed and high costs of production. Increasing nation-wide production prob-
lems caused by prevalent disease, pests and insect losses has resulted in
government authorities now giving certified seed production high priority.
Cr. No. 259:      Tea:  US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded
appraisal expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation
of three additional factories. Project completion, estimated for December
1977, can probably be advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating
pressure on available funds and the main challenge for the two PTPs will
be to reduce working capital requirements, as well as overhead and indirect
costs, and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260:      Second Highway:   US$34 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 10, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction work is about 80 percent finished and should
be completed by August 1976, about one and a half years behind schedule.
The delay was caused largely by slow progress in mobilizing contractors,
difficulties in equipment delivery, heavy rains and landslides. The closing
date has therefore been postponed by 15 months to December 31, 1976. Design
standards for the road sections have been slightly lowered and some savings
have been achieved, which, together with other savings have partly offset
construction cost increases of 12 percent.
Cr. No. 275:      Third Technical Assistance: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Effective Date: February 25,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress 6n this project is satisfactory. The closing
date has been postponed by another year to complete disbursements for
ongoing studies.
Cr. No. 288:      Second Education:   US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9,
1972; Effective Date: June 7, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This agricultural training project, being implemented
by the Department of Agriculture, is about 16 months delayed because of



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
late appointment of consultant architects, lack of counterpart funds, delays
in bid analysis and in awarding contracts. As a result, civil works,
which were to be completed already, have not commenced. Furniture and
equipment procurement have therefore been deferred. Unlike the physical
aspects of the project, the educational aspects are generally on schedule.
Total project costs are now estimated to be 90 percent higher than the
original estimate. Government has budgeted for the cost overrun. Disburse-
ment, which has been slow, should improve since civil works contracts have
now been awarded.
Cr. No. 289:      Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation:   US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977.
Civil Works and equipment purchases for the main project,
Pekalen-Sampean, are proceeding but completion of civil works will be
about two years behind schedule. Due to inflation, project costs are
likely to be substantially higher than appraisal estimates. Consultants
for the various studies are at work with their counterparts. Disbursements
are also on schedule.
Cr. No. 300:      Population:   US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress of this project is generally satisfactory.
Steps are being taken to improve preparation and implementation of project
components concerned with commtnications, research and evaluation. All
vehicles have been procured and good progress is being made with equipment
procurement. The civil works section of the Project Implementation Unit
functions well but is underutilized because of delays in making policy
decisions. Construction costs will exceed appraisal estimates by 135
percent. Population Education is now being introduced into school curricula
after a successful trial. Despite its limitations, the national family
planning program, of which the project is an integral part, is expanding
annually and showing good results.
Cr. No. 310:      Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I):    US$10 Million Credit
of June 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 10, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This credit is fully committed.
Cr. No. 318:       Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:   US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Progress on this project is slow but funds are expected to
be fully committed by September 30, 1977. Due to substantial cost increases,
only about half of the anticipated tonnage will be rehabilitated.



ANNEK II
Page 9 of 14
Cr. No. 319:      Fourt:h Agricultural Estates:  US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective date: January 30, 1973;
ClosiLng Date:  June 30, 1981.
The physical progress of the project is ahead of the
appraisal schedule. The financial position of the estate group is dif-
ficult due to an unsatisfactory debt/equity ratio. Measures to improve
the situation are under review.
Cr. No. 334:       Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit
of September 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 12, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits
165-IND and 334-IND (together $55 million) encountered implementation delays
due to procurement protlems and cumbersome management procedures. As a result
the project is two years behind the original schedule. These diEficulties
have been resolved and recent progress is encouraging. No further delays
are therefore expected.
Cr. No 355:       Beef Cattle Development:   US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
Several problems have seriously delayed project imple-
mentation. Government's budget allocation has been insufficient; and fi-
nancial management and coordination have been weak. The last supervision
mission undertook a thcrough project review and its recommendations, which
include major changes in project scope and objectives, are presently under
discussion with Government.
Cr. No. 358:      North Sumatra Smallholder Development:    US$5 MLllion
Credit of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project performance, which had suffered from severe fin-
nancial and organizational difficulties, has improved greatly. Physical
progress is encouraging; rubber planting and rice intercropping are now
on schedule. There is some room for improvement in financial management,
in which consultants are assisting. Total project costs are now estimated
at about three times the original estimate of US$10 million. Disbursements
are expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 387:      Third Education:   US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1,
1973; Effective Date: August 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is about 10 months behind schedule, mainly due
to insufficient top management staff and paper shortages last year. The paper



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
shortage has been overcome and about 32 million text books will be printed by
January 1976, about four months behind schedule. Steps are being taken to
strengthen project management and to improve arrangements for expert services.
Measures to improve project implementation have been discussed and agreed with
the Government. The book testing and teacher training programs are on schedule,
but their results have not yet been evaluated. Procurement of instructional
equipment will be completed by early 1976.
Cr. No. 388:      Third Highways:   US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: June 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Construction work on the two North Sulawesi road sections
in the project was started early in 1974 under two contracts and is now 60
percent completed. Construction has been delayed mainly because of long
mobilization periods and heavy rains. Project costs will likely exceed
original estimates (including contingencies) by 57 percent mainly due to
sharply escalated prices. The training program has been completed success-
fully.
Cr. No. 399:      West Java Thermal Power:   US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Bids received for the first two 100 mw units at Muara
Karang were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of appraisal.
This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted in an increase
in the total project cost of more than 100 percent. Government will provide
the additional funds required. PLN has satisfactorily met the initial targets
in its financial recovery plan provided for under the terms of the Credit
Agreement.
Cr. No. 400:      Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:- US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Planting is presently slightly behind schedule but
it is expected that targets will be achieved or even exceeded by the end
of the 1975/76 planting season. Project nurseries are well organized
and field work is proceeding well. Also non-participating farmers have
benefitted from the project. Total project costs are estimated to be
double the amount originally envisaged and project management is attempting
to achieve cost reductions. Due to the high prices for tea (about twice
the level expected at the time of appraisal), the economic rate of return
is still satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
Cr. No. 405:       Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date:   April 22, 1974;
Clos3ing Date:  June 30, 1979.
In riew of the rapid and continuing increase in the cost
of sugar factory machinery and the more recent shortage of budgetary funds,
the scope of the above-mentioned project has been reduced by the deletion of
six minor rehabilitations from the project description. The revised project
consists of the major rehabilitation of two factories and the construction
of a new factory. Credit funds have been reallocated from the minor to
the major rehabilitatlon and to the new construction.
Cr. No. 428:       Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate:   US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Despite an increase in construction costs, the project
remains financially viable because revenues from the sale of plots has
risen proportionately.. Construction has fallen behind schedule due to
land acquisition prob]ems, but developed land is being occupied as fast
as it is made availabl.e. While there is still a backlog of applications
for industrial plots, the rate of new applications has fallen off during
recent months and the estate is intensifying its promotional efforts.
Cr. No. 436:       Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
(PD_CI):  US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973;
Effective Date: March 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After a long start-up period and difficulties in finding
and recruiting qualified local staff, PDFCI has now reached the operating
stage. Commitments have started and are expected to increase rapidly
as PDFCI's own operational capability improves.
Cr. No. 451:      Fourth Technical Assistance:    US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 479:       Bali Tourism:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Project implementation has improved after initial diffi-
culties. Tender documents for all major infrastructure works were issued
in January 1976. The earliest possible completion date has shifted from
February 1979 to October 1979. Budgetary allocations as requested by the
Bali Tourism Development Corporation for FY76/77 are satisfactory. Negotia-
tions with one group of investors are in progress but otherwise investor in-
terest appears to be low. Promotional efforts to attract additional investors
have been intensified in 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
Cr. No. 480:      Fisheries Credit:   US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date:  January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Lending for fishponds is now on schedule and the contract for
construction of shore facilities at Ambon has been awarded. There may how-
ever be some delays in skipjack vessel construction due to procurement pro-
blems. Although significant cost increases are envisaged, the project is
still expected to be financially viable because of increases in fish prices.
Cr. No. 514:        Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:   US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The consultants are designing works and preparing contract
documents. The first civil works contract is expectd to be let in August 1976,
about one year behind the original schedule.
Loan No. 1005:       Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Procurement of material and equipment, which had been
slow due to poor organization and inadequate budget allocation, has now
improved. Bids have been received for most items and the bulk of the con-
tracts should be signed soon. Passenger traffic in 1975 is slightly lower
than in 1974, but still higher than forecast; freight traffic has continued
to decline due mainly to poor maintenance and inadequate motive power, which
should improve towards the end of 1976. Although tariffs were raised in May
1975, increasing passenger revenues by about 25 percent and freight revenues
by about 10 percent, the operating ratio is likely to deteriorate further, as
operating costs have continued to rise at a faster rate.
Loan No. 1040:       Jakarta Urban Development:   US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Progress on the Kampung Improvement Program has been
very good; costs were less than estimated, allowing additional work to be
undertaken. Execution of the Klender Sites and Services Scheme is one year
behind schedule due to disagreements about site boundaries. Most consultant
contracts commenced early in 1976.
Loan No. 1049:       Five Cities Water Supply:   US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the
project is running 8-10 months behind schedule. This delay together



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
with higher rates cf inflation than anticipated is expected to increase
project costs 20-25 percent above the appraisal estimate. Water Enterprises
have now been established in each of the five cities and good progress has
been made in their staffing. The anticipated interdepartmental decree which
would govern the relationship of the Water Enterprises to the Central Govern-
ment's Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has not been issued; it is now
proposed to clarify this relationship in a Presidential Decree which is
being drafted.
Loan No. 1054:     Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO II):   US$50 Million
Loan of November 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 14,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Commitments and disbursements initially were slower
than expected, but they should increase in the second half of FY76. The
progress of this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1089:     Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1978.
WDrk on the PUSRI III project is proceeding according to
schedule. Work on the related gas pipeline is experiencing delay, but steps
are being taken to expedite impiementation.
Loan No. 1100:     Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Consultants for the project and technical assistance advisors
have been selected. Construction work is about five months behind schedule
due to the delay in selection of consultants.
Loan No. 1127:     Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
Jume 30, 1980.
The options for a third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang, which
were included in the tenders for the first two units financed under Credit
399, have been excercised. The project is on schedule and expected to be
completed during 1978.
Loan No. 1139:     Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress design is satisfactory. About 60 percent of the
equipment and materials required for the project have been ordered.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
Loan No. 1179:    Agricultural Research and Extension:    US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on February 23, 1976.
Loan No. 1197:    National Resource Survey and Mapping Project:    US$13.0
Million Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This loan became effective on April 2, 1976.
Loan No. 1236:     Fourth Highway Project:  US$130 million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan is expected to become effective on August 13, 1976.
Loan No. 1237:     Fourth Education Project:  US$37 million Loan of April 15,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan is expected to become effective on July 14, 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDONESIA - SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:         P.T. PANN (Pembangunan Armada Niaga Nasional-National
Fleet Development Company)
Amount:              US$54.0 million.
Terms:               15 years including three years of grace, at an interest
rate of 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:     About US$50.0 million of the loan would be made available
to P.T. PANN half as equity, half as debt. The debt
portion would be on-lent at 12 percent interest per annum
for up to 10 years, including one year of grace for used
ships and for up to 5 years, including one year of grace,
for ship rehabilitation. The remainder US$4.0 million
would be used for technical assistance.
Co-lenders:          OECF of Japan, Norway and a consortium of banks organized
by Norway. OECF is provided $25 million for 30 years in-
cluding a grace period of 10 years at a 2-3/4 percent
interest per annum. Norway is providing a total of $100.3
million of which $12.5 million would be grant and $87.8 mil-
lion in the form of an export credit. The export credit
would be for 15 years including 3 years of grace at 8-1/2
percent interest per annum, plus a single fee of 1.9 per-
cent. The consortium of banks would provide up to $12
million for 5 years at an interest of 1-7/8 percent over
the Eurodollar rate, plus management and commitment fees
of 3/4 of 1 percent each. Out of the Norwegian grant,
export credit and consortium banks loan, only $99.7 mil-
lion would be used to finance the project, the balance
would finance items not included in the project.
Project
Description:       The project would provide for:   (a) rehabilitation
of about 54,500 dwt of existing inter-island ships; (b)
procurement of about 52,000 dwt tons of used cargo ships;
(c) procurement of about 50,250 dwt of new standard cargo
and cargo-passenger ships; (d) scrapping of about 70,000
dwt of existing inter-island ships; (e) a technical assist-
ance and training program to support and improve inter-
island fleet operations and planning and to train marine



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
officers and engineers; (f) a study to determine further
needs for RLS shipping during Repelita II and beyond.
The proposed loan would finance the procurement of most
of the used ships and ship rehabilitation and about half
of the foreign exchange cost of the technical assistance.
Project Costs:      The estimated cost of the project is about $195 million
of which about $190 million or 97 percent is in foreign
exchange. This total includes delivery cost of $8.5
million and provisions for price increases ($2.9 million)
and physical contingencies ($2.5 million).
Financial Plan:      The proposed loan of $54.0 million would finance 28 per-
cent of total foreign exchange cost, excluding interest
during construction. The remainder of the financing re-
quired for the project will be provided by Japan ($25
million), Norway, including a consortium of banks or-
ganized by Norway ($99.7 million), Government ($0.4 mil-
lion) and BAPINDO ($15.0 million). Interest during con-
struction and part of the rehabilitation cost will be
covered from PANN's cash generation.
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY     1977     1978      1979     1980     Total
Annual       35.4     15.1      2.8      0.7      54.0
Cummulative 35.4      50.5     53.3     54.0
Procurement:         For the procurement of used ships financed by the Bank,
international competitive bidding is inappropriate.
Instead, PANN's consultant naval architect-surveyor,
shipbrokers and resident advisors will assist in con-
vassing the international market, identifying and pro-
curing appropriate used ships and in negotiating pur-
chase and as necessary, repair contracts for them.
The appraisal report of PANN and the prices of used
ships will be approved by the Bank and the ships must
be inspected before PANN purchases used ships. Inter-
national competitive bidding is also impractical in
the case of ship rehabilitation, and instead the pro-
cedures established under Credit 318-IND will be used.
Special equipment for training included in the technical
assistance component financed by the Bank will be pro-
cured following international competitive bidding, in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
or through international shopping.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Technical
Assistance:        The technical assistance component of the project, of
which the Bank will finance $3.8 million, provides
for the continuation of the following existing programst
(i) advisory services to BAPINDO, PELNI and SEACOM; (ii)
training of crews. It also provides for the following new
programs: (i) training of marine engineers and deck
officers and procurement of special training equipment;
(ii) provision of specialist services to the shipping
industry, including those of domestic consultants;
(iii) management consultant services for a review of
PELNI operations; and (iv) an economic study of future
requirements of fleet development in Indonesia.
Economic Rate
of Return:        The overall economic rate of return for the project is 18
percent; 19 percent for used ships, 15 percent for new
ships and over 100 percent for rehabilitated ships.
Appraisal
Report:           No. 982a-IND dated April 15, 1976-East Asia and Pacific
Projects Department






IBRD 11493
_ TTnA A N D2 z05                                                                                                      i7 Bo- / u 15a- ( g 150- INDONES  l   JUNE l9t5
zt 3r-*u7J5<  t  7;zS   :3a   s-3t_2  _Appraisal of Second Shipping Project
PHILIPPINES              Proposed Regular Liner Service Route Systems
South   China    Sea       iRRu!Ei(,                                  AMAORPOT
i\Ko t a l A   e.N A A   L A Y   T I   a  (-             -  r                                                         -    D om estic   from /to   JO.   ports
Toto, er .h 24-r___N_S                                   Do mestic  from/to  I'tt oUfoid. Jo0o
K 1. L-pu,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~~~~~~~EoPor/itopor tofrom Shi~p-r end aBin
1'o'-                                                               M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ----.-h-Railways
100'  le5  '!-                                       .r5/                   j 1      -   Ine rnationa l bo n ais
p              Knt-Cj, (     22    C                   fee
<26
Bei,ku'                                                         b.                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRIAN JAYA
0 v a  ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~        ~   (B a n cia               S e a
____t___ I                                                                                                                         tEJfom-~
3 -St  16 5-11, K.Iiz.t..  r-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MoaU
4  Sp-  .I C.Pit.1  17  C-t-I  (~  "'-N 
6N.rt Su.w-  220 S.Ulh-E-t S.I.-,  .-P~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0      to    m    m    O    nt          o
12dpoia  Tertory A-1,r  26  nan. layc                                                          K                                 oo 00 0p00   tO  00 tO  0
13 Unkul.                                                                                                           -ERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
U.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D ordnomo riumod o



