Report No. 982a-IND
Indonesia: Appraisal of
a Second Shipping Project FILE COPY
April 15, 1976
Transportation Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units       =    Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1.0               =    US$0.00241
Rp 415               =    US$1.00
Rp 1,000,000              US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (t)    =    1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 kilogram (kg)     =    2.046 pounds (lb)
1 kilometer (km)    =    .62 statute mile
1 knot              =    1.8520 kilometer per hour (km/h)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPINDO        -    Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (State Development Bank)
BAPPENAS       -    National Planning Council
BIMCO          -    Baltic and International Maritime Conference
BKI            -    Biro Klasifikasi Indonesia (Indonesian Classification
Bureau)
DOC            -    Department of Communications
DWT            -    Deadweight tons; approximate cargo capacity in tons
CL             -    Germanischer Lloyd, a classification society
LMCO           -    Inter-governmental Maritime Consultative Organization
INSA           -    Indonesian National Shipowners Association
LTFD           -    Long-Term Fleet Development Study
MCD            -    Maritime Credit Department (in BAPINDO)
NORAD           -    Norwegian Agency for International Development
OECF           -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PANN           -    P.T. Pembangunan Armada Niaga Nasional
(National Fleet Development Corporation)
PELNI          -    P.N. Pelayaran Nasional Indonesia
(National Shipping Company)
RLS            -    Regular Liner Services of Inter-Island Shipping
SEACOW         -    Directorate General of Sea Communications of the
Department of Communications
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......          .........................  i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION  .......................................                     1
II.   BACKGROUND .        ....2......................................    2
A.    Transport - General ............... .       ...............    2
B.   Maritime Sector .......  ............................               2
III.    ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT .............                      5
A.    The Government ......          .............................       5
B.   Directorate General of Sea Communications  .. ......    6
C.    Ship Owners and Operators  ..... ...........                       6
D.   Other Organizations ......I .      .......................    9
IV.   THE PROJECT  ...........................................    11
A.   Description ....................           .......    11
B.    Cost Estimates  ...................................    12
C.    Financing Plan ...................................   14
D.    Project Execution and Procurement  .......             .........   16
E.   Technical Assistance and Consultants  ...... .......   18
F.    Training  .........................................    20
G.    Disbursement  .....................................    20
H.   Environmental Impact .....             ........................   21
I.   Project Risks  ......           ..............................   21
J.    Possible Future Developments  .....................    22
V.    FINANCIAL REVIEW  ......................................   22
A.    Introduction .....................................    22
B.    The Forecast Financial Position of PANN  ....             ......   22
C.    Tariff and Tax Implications of the Project  .... ...   25
D.    Financial Implications of the Project for PELNI  ..    25
This report was prepared by Messrs. G.F. Bain (Shipping Specialist),
F. Chapman (Financial Analyst), S.Y. Park (Economist) and with assistance
from R. Ullmann (Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................  27
A.   General   . ........................................  27
B.  Traffic          ....................27
C.   Shipping Capacity and Productivity ..............   28
D.   Economic Rate of Return on the Project .........   29
VII.   RECOMMENDATION .......................................   30
ANNEXES
1.  Progress of Ship Rehabilitation Project (Credit 318-IND)
2.  Transport Planning and Non-Maritime Transport Activities in Indonesia
3.  Summary of Consultants' Analysis of Existing Regular Liner Service
Fleet Expansion Alternatives
Attachment 1  -   Age and Deadweight of Inter-Island Fleet
as of June 1973
Attachment 2  -   Age and Deadweight of Licensed RLS Fleet
as of June 1973
4.  Technical Assistance and Training Program and Main Points to be
Included in Consultants' Terms of References
Attachment 1  -    Summary of Technical Assistance Related
to Shipping Program
5.  P.N. PELNI
Attachment 1  -   Operational Forecast
Attachment 2   -    Consolidated Profit and Loss Statements
Attachment 3   -    Consolidated Balance Sheets
Attachment 4   -    Consolidated Source and Application of Funds



-3-
6.   P.T. PANN
Attachment I  -    Ship Procurement Program
Attachment 2   -    Schedule of Ship Deliveries
Attachment 3   -    New Ships, used ships, and Rehabilitation
Program
Attachment 4   -    P.T. PANN Projected Income Statement
Attachment 5   -    P.T. PANN Projected Balance Sheet
Attachment 6   -    P.T. PANN Source and Application of Funds
7.   Project Execution and Procurement Procedures
Attachment 1   -    Policy Statement - Memorandum Concerning
Project Implementation by P.T. PANN
8.   Implementation Schedule
9.   Estimate of Economic Benefits
Attachment 1   -    Average Annual Costs of Maintenance, Lubrication
and Bunker by Age and Size of Ships
Attachment 2   -    Revenue of Typical PELNI Ships
Attachment 3   -    Daily Operating Cost of PELNI Ships
TABLES
1.   Indonesian Fleet by Category and Size Classes, 1974
2.   Shipping Acquisition and Rehabilitation Program
3.   Disbursement Schedule
4.   Alternative Projections of Freight Traffic and Shipping
Capacity Requirements
5.   Passenger Traffic
CHARTS
1.   No. 9677 - Organization of Directorate General of
Sea Communications
2.   No. 9604 - Cause and Effect Relationship
3.   No. 9575 - Standard Ship Types
MAPS
1.   No. IBRD-11493






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The pattern of natural resource and population distribution
in Indonesia makes it important to maintain an extensive inter-island
shipping service to ensure sound economic development of the country. In
light of this, the Bank has been actively engaged in assisting shipping
development in Indonesia.
ii.       The Government of Indonesia has requested the Bank to assist
in financing a part of the costs of a Five-Year Inter-Island Fleet Develop-
ment Program prepared with the assistance of Dutch consultants, Maritime
Research Centre. The Long Term Fleet Development Study (LTFD) concluded
that even if the productivity of the existing ships improved by 40%, after
scrapping the poor quality ships, and if port turn-around time improved,
there would still be a growing shortage of shipping during the next five
years and beyond. The Consultant's proposals were intended to meet the
inter-island shipping requirements of Indonesia during its Second Five-
Year Development Plan (Repelita II), 1975-79. The program prepared by
the consultants consists of purchase of 134 new ships totalling about
195,600 deadweight tons (dwt) to achieve a 265 ships fleet of about 338,000
dwt at an approximate cost of about US$587 million equivalent by 1979.  The
estimated cost included certain technical assistance.
iii.      The scope of the program suggested by the consultants has been
reduced and the proposed project, agreed to by the Government, would finance,
in addition to technical assistance, about 60% of the shipping tonnage in-
cluded in the LTFD at a cost of US$195 million equivalent. The project
scope was reduced because of: (i) the uncertainty with regard to the high
traffic growth assumed in the preparation of the program; (ii) the need for
an additional economic study to determine an optimum size of the fleet; and
(iii) the financial constraints of the Government. The project would empha-
size rehabilitation of existing ships and purchase of used ships rather than
purchasing only new ships as the consultants had suggested.
iv.       The tonnage to be financed by the proposed project is required to
meet part of the growing demand for shipping during the next five years.
The project will consist of (a) rehabilitation of 54,500 dwt of existing
inter-island ships, demonstrated to be economically sound and technically
and financially feasible; (b) scrapping of about 70,000 dwt of ships that
cannot be rehabilitated; (c) procurement of about 52,000 dwt of used cargo
ships; (d) procurement of 50,250 dwt of standard design new cargo and cargo-
passenger ships of 750, 1,000, 1,500 and 2,500 dwt; (e) a technical assistance
and training program designed to support and improve inter-island fleet



- ii -
operations and planning, and the training of marine officers and engineers;
and (f) a study to determine the further needs for shipping during Repelita II,
the second five-year plan (1975-1980), and to 1990.
v.        The total project would cost about US$195.2 million equivalent or
US$201.5 million including interest during construction, of which it is pro-
posed that the Bank finance US$54 million equivalent. The Government would
finance this amount using the proposed loan, bilateral aid already secured
from Japan and Norway, funds to be provided through BAPINDO, cash generation
by PANN, export credits from Norwegian banks, and commercial loans from a
consortium of Norwegian, United States, and Singapore banks. All of the
project ships would be acquired by Pembangunan Armada Niaga Nasional (PANN),
the national fleet development corporation, established in 1974 to rebuild
the nation's shipping fleet, and leased or sold to Indonesian shipping
companies.
vi.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government, loan pro-
ceeds, together with other required funds, would be made available to PANN
under a financing agreement between the Government, PANN and BAPINDO. Funds
from the proposed loan would be used to finance: (a) procurement and delivery
of used ships to be obtained from the international market through PANN's ship-
brokers, (b) rehabilitation and modification of ships carried out under negotiated
contracts as is now done for Credit 318-IND and (c) a technical assistance
program and an economic study.
vii.      The Directorate General of Sea Communications (SEACOM) of the
Department of CommunicEtions will have the overall supervisory responsibility
for the project, which will be executed by PANN and BAPINDO. SEACOM, BAPINDO
and PANN will require additional technical assistance from internationally
recruited advisors, the cost of which is included in the project.
'viii.    PANN's present capital is owned 60% by the Government and 40% by
BAP1TDO. Equity of Rp 2.0 billion (US$4.8 million) has already been paid-in
and PANN has commenced operations with a small staff. The balance of equity
needs, estimated to be about Rp 37.0 billion (US$89.1 million equivalent) or
just under 50% of total project cost, and about the same amount of debt, will
be provided by foreign credits and loans, the proposed loan, BAPINDO and PANN
cash generation. Borrowing by PANN for new ship procurement would be by
direct Government loans of up to 15 years at 12% including one year of
grace; borrowing for used ship procurement would be for up to ten years in-
cluding one year of grace and for rehabilitation would be for up to five
years, with one year of grace, and would be via both Government loans at 12%
p.a. and by loans obtained from BAPINDO at 15% p.a.
ix..      PANN would lease or sell the ships it acquires to Indonesian ship-
ping companies which are operationally competent, are judged to be able to
repay lease or sales costs, which have been appraised and which have agreed
to undertake improvements set out in a Development Agreement forming part
of the sale or lease. Sales of new ships would be for 10% cash with the



- iii -
balance to be repaid at 10% p.a. for 15 years including six months grace after
delivery. Used ships sales would be for 30% cash by delivery with the 70%
remaining balance to be repaid at 10% p.a. for up to 10 years including six
months grace after delivery.   Leases of new ships would be for up to 15 years
at 10% p.a.; of used ships for up to 10 years at 10% p.a.  Ships rehabilitated
by PANN would be leased for up to 5 years at 10% p.a. including three months
grace after delivery. In all cases a 1% commitment fee will be charged.
Lease payments will be due in advance. The terms of leases and sales contracts
would be such as to permit PANN to recover the cost of ships, operating ex-
penses and interest on borrowed funds plus a net margin representing about
4% return on its equity. PANN, with a weighted average cost of debt of 12.5%,
would obtain a 3.75% net margin between its lease rate of 10% and its total
weighted cost of capital (about 6.25%). All but about US$4.0 million of the
proposed loan would be made available to PANN, half as equity and half as
loan at 12% per annum. On this basis PANN's financial position would be
satisfactory.
x.        In order to enable shipping companies to meet the lease payments
due to PANN and to maintain a satisfactory financial position, the Govern-
ment has agreed: (i) to an annual review and adjustment of freight tariffs
to permit an efficiently operated company to earn an adequate return and
(ii) to satisfactorily reimburse P.N. Pelayaran Nasional Indonesia (PELNI)
for Government ordered operations. This is required especially for PELNI
which will be one of the major beneficiaries of the proposed project.
Technical assistance for PELNI to prepare a plan of action, within 15 months
of signing the proposed loan, to improve its operation is included in the
proposed project.
xi.       Successful execution of the project is essential for continued
sound development of the Indonesian economy by ensuring economical and re-
liable sea communications to various population, production and marketing
centers of this archipelago nation. The quantifiable benefits of the project
would yield an economic rate of return of about 18%. The rate of return for
the new ships would be about 15% and for used ships about 19%. Rehabilita-
tion yields an economic return of over 100%. With a 20% cost increase and 10%
reduction in benefits, the overall return would still be over 11%; with a
10% cost increase and a 10% reduction in benefits, the return would be 13%.
xii.      Risks in carrying out the project as projected are deemed to be
mainly financial and could be substantial. They would arise from lax enforce-
ment of the safety and ship classification regulations by the Government and
continued operation of obsolete and unsafe ships which would undercut freight
rates and would result in operators of leased ships being unable to pay their
leases. Measures have been proposed to reduce these risks. A plan to scrap
70,000 dwt shipping as ships are added to the fleet or rehabilitated has
been agreed.
xiii.     The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$54 mil-
lion to the Government of Indonesia for a term of 15 years, including three
years of grace.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested the Bank's assistance
in financing part of the cost of its Five-Year Fleet Development Program
prepared with the assistance of Netherlands consultants, Maritime Research
Centre. The current program is designed to meet the inter-island shipping
requirement of Indonesia during its Second Five-Year Development Plan
(Repelita II), 1974-1979.
1.02      The proposed project which has been agreed to by the Government
would finance about 60% of the tonnage included in the program suggested by
the consultants, leaving the balance of short term requirements and addi-
tional needs to 1990 to be determined on the basis of a ffurther economic
study. The project consists of scrapping and rehabilitating existing ships
and adding used and new ships to the fleet. The proposed loan of US$54 mil-
lion equivalent would finance 28% of the project's foreign exchange cost.
The balance of the funds would come from Japanese and Norwegian bilateral
aid, BAPINDO, the Norwegian export credit organization (EKSPORTFINANS) and
Norwegian, United States and Singapore commercial banks.
1.03      The Bank Group's first shipping credit (Credit 318-IND), made
in 1972, was directed to rehabilitating ships of the Regular Liner Service
(RLS) of Indonesia's inter-island shipping. An initial delay was experienced
in getting the project started because of the need to set up the Maritime
Credit Department (MCD) in Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO), through
which the credit funds were channelled. There was a steep cost increase in
ship rehabilitation over that estimated during appraisal necessitating a
cut-back in the project's scope. However the Credit, now 78% committed,
is expected to be fully disbursed before the revised closing date of
September 30, 1977 (Annex 1).
1.04      There have also been three credits and one loan for highways,
(Credits 154-IND, 260-IND, 388-IND and Loan 1236-INa as well as a loan for
railways (Loan 1005-IND). A fertilizer distribution loan (Loan 1139-IND)
was made in 1975. Progress on all projects has been slow but no major
difficulties have arisen. A port project is under preparation.
1.05      This report is based on the consultants' study, data supplied
by the Government and ship operators in Indonesia, and the findings of
an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. G.F. Bain (Shipping Specialist),
T. DeLaney (Financial Analyst) and S.Y. Park (Economist), which visited
Indonesia in November/December 1974. Messrs. F. Chapman and R. Ullmann
(Financial Analysts) also participated in the preparation of this report.
Government delay in deciding on the project composition as well as the finan-
cial plan necessitated further missions in June and October 1975. Govern-
ment discussions with Norwegian officials were completed in February 1976
and the financing plan agreed.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Transport - General
2.01      The Indonesian transport system consists mainly of inter-island
marine services, highways and railways. The marine services comprise Regular
Liner Services (RLS) between more than 100 specified ports, unscheduled
(tramping) services, and ocean-going shipping. Land transport is well
developed in Java with extensive railway and highway networks, whereas in
Sumatera, railways have only been developed in some parts, and the road net-
work is limited to basic links between principal cities. On Fhe other
islands, except for a small railway on Madura, transport facilities are
limited to a few roads in areas around ports and towns. Air transport volume
is still small but has increased rapidly in the last few years.
2.02      The Government's strategy, as set forth in the Second Five-Year
Plan (Repelita II), is to continue to gradually upgrade the country's
existing transport facilities. This provides a sound basis for further
economic growth. Additional new infrastructure will also be built for
(i) exploitation of new resources, (ii) support of the Government's regional
development policies, and (iii) improvement of rural transport. Roughly
17% of Repelita II expenditure, Rs 1,800 billion including Government
expenditure of Rp 718 billion, is earmarked for transport. A description
of transport planning and of transport sector activities on land, inland
water, and air is given in Annex 2.
B.   Maritime Sector
(a) General
2.03      The Indonesian shipping fleet, excluding an undetermined number
odf sailing craft, consists of about 1,055 registered vessels having a total
deadweight tonnage (dwt) of 1,159,000 (Table 1). Supplemented by ships
which are hire-purchased or chartered, mainly oil tankers and oil industry
supply vessels, the operating fleet was considerably greater. As well as
can be determined from inadequate records, Indonesia in mid-1974 had 57
oceangoing general cargo ships owned by seven major and a number of minor
companies; some 423 local vessels which had an average tonnage of under 200
dwt and normally engage in coastal voyages of under 200 miles; and about 336
inter-island registered ships of 500 dwt and over, totalling some 426,000
dwt owned by 56 companies. Of the inter-island fleet ships, 209 totalling
220,000 dwt owned by 47 companies were licensed in the RLS.
2.04      The country has about 300 ports scattered over the archipelago but
about 70% of traffic volume is concentrated in ten of them. The major ports
are in Java, Sumatera, Sulawesi and Kalimantan. Port and customs procedures
present a serious impediment to transport flows in Indonesia and improvement
thereto could result in significant increases in port capacity and a reduc-
tion in shipping costs. However, due to institutional rigidities, major
improvements cannot be expected in the near future (para 2.09).



- 3 -
2.05      Studies of short-term port requirements have been completed by
consultants, NEDECO (Netherlands), and main ports are being improved with
assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Netherlands and Japan.
Preparation of master plans for the ports of Surabaya, Belawan and Panjang,
financed by UNDP with ADB as executing agency and carried out by consultants,
Sir William Halcrow (U.K.), have been completed. A master plan study of
Tanjung Priok (Jakarta), the largest general cargo port (handling about 30%
of the country's total traffic) was completed in September 1975 by consult-
ants, Swan Wooster (Canada), financed under IDA Technical Assistance (Credits
216-IND and 275-IND). Appraisals by the Bank for Tanjung Priok and by ADB
for other port projects are underway. The Government recognizes the importance
of improving port operations and is devoting some Rp 15.0 billion (US$36 mil-
lion) of its 1975-76 budget to port improvements.
2.06      Indonesian cabotage law, like that of most countries, reserves
the domestic trade for vessels owned and operated by Indonesian shipping
companies; in addition, the Government has arranged with Singapore that
one half of the Indonesia-Singapore trade will be reserved for Indonesian
ships. Domestic shipping services were formally established in 1969 and,
following the pattern of earlier times, classified into three categories:
local, special and inter-island trades. Licensing of shipping companies
in each of these sections is supplemented by the licensing of inter-island
RLS routes designed to provide trade links among the various islands and
to ensure service even when seasonal transport demand might tend to divert
ships to more profitable routes.
(b) Regular Liner Services (RLS)
2.07      In 1975, the RLS system consisted of 28 trunk or main routes,
20 feeder routes, and 18 routes which serve Singapore. These 66 routes
serve about 140 ports (see Map IBRD 11493) with varying frequency and
regularity. The RLS system is continually under review by the Government
and the number of ships serving each route is adjusted quarterly where neces-
sary. The RLS section of the inter-island fleet, comprising 47 companies,
is dominated by the Government-owned company, P.N. Pelayaran Nasional
Indonesia (PELNI), which owns 40% of the total RLS tonnage of about
220,000 dwt. Many RLS companies own only a few ships; about 20 of them
own only two ships which is the minimum number of ships required by law
for engaging in stevedoring businesses (para 3.05). A large part of the
RLS fleet is overage; in 1974, 35% by number were over 20 years old, 53%
were between 11 and 20 years of age and only 12% were under 10 years of age.
Given the poor maintenance practices prevalent, the consequent frequent
breakdowns and long repair times, only about 35% of the total fleet operated
over 300 days a year in 1972, with 47% operating less than 200 days per year.
Poor productivity 1/ of these ships also stems from inordinately high port
1/   Measured by the cargo tons carried per year per deadweight ton of
shipping. Current values for productivity are 10 to 12 tons/dwt and
are about half of what might be expected.



time and delays so that the present ratio of port-to-sea time is 2:1; a ratio
of 0.7:1 is considered to be possible.  The Government agreed during negotia-
tions to commence the introduction of unitized cargo handling in the RLS
fleet in order to reduce port time. Further operational improvements will be
included in the proposed port loan for Tanjung Priok and have been recommended
by the ADB consultants. A description of the RLS fleet is contained in
Annex 3.
2.08      A three-year fleet rationalization program starting in 1972 was
planned by the Government in connection with the First Shipping Credit
(Credit 318-IND). The program, in addition to emphasizing the enforcement
of regulations, and providing technical assistance to ship repair facilities,
was expected to improve the RLS by rehabilitating ships and by scrapping
obsolete ships (Annex 1). It was also expected to improve the operational
performance of RLS shipping companies, through conditions attached to
rehabilitation subloans of the Credit. Lax enforcement of safety standards
delayed the ship scrapping program. The upsurge of traffic in 1973 and
1974, and the Government's need to secure shipping for the emergency trans-
port of rice during the 1972/73 drought caused additional delays in removing
ships from operations to make repairs. Nevertheless, the tonnage of
licensed ships in the RLS fleet in 1975 has been reduced by about 20% since
early 1972.
2.09      Progress has been made in consolidating and improving the opera-
tions of shipping companies through formation of groups to share the use of
cargo-shed facilities. Stevedoring and RLS freight rates have been
separated. Freight tariffs for the RLS were raised by 20% in 1973, 20%
in 1974, and 25% in July 1975. These tariffs are related to costs (para 5.08).
Port operations, particularly in the main ports, have improved partly as a
result of Government action on an Association suggestion for the formation
of a high-level inspection and review team. A regrouping of stevedoring
companies is required to produce further improvements and is recommended
in the proposed port loan. Three main shipyards which receive technical
assistance under Credit 318-IND have substantially improved both the quality
and quantity of their work, particularly rehabilitation work on RLS ships.
Considering the difficulties of implementing change and the short time
involved, progress made in executing the fleet rationalization program is
encouraging. Nevertheless, much remains to be done, including further
physical rehabilitation and stricter enforcement of shipping safety regula-
tions. The Government published revised safety rules in October 1975 re-
quiring each ship to pass a new safety inspection in 1976 and has agreed
to revise its basic safety rules (para 4.12 and Annex 4).
2.10      Rapid improvement in economic conditions in Indonesia in recent
years has been reflected in growing volumes of ocean and inter-island trade.
The excess capacity in the inter-island fleet in 1971 when the traffic
volume was 1.9 million tons disappeared by 1973 when RLS traffic rose to 2.5
million tons. By early 1974, shippers were offering premiums on freight rates



in order to obtain service. With the current slow down of economic activity,
a temporary oversupply of shipping capacity may reappear. But even if port
operations and customs procedures are improved, thereby increasing average
ship productivity, there would still be a growing shortage of shipping during
the next five years and beyond. To overcome this shortage, as well as for
other reasons stated below, the Government has decided to provide a financial
incentive to increase investment in and utilization of inter-island ship-
ping.  This incentive would be via relending of funds to shipowners at 10%
p.a. which is about 5% p.a. lower than the current long term lending rate in
Indonesia.
2.11      The provision of incentives is a sound policy in view of the facts
that: (i) all but a few shipping operators are financially weak and cannot
procure ships or pay for them on normal terms, though many are operationally
acceptable; (ii) the maintenance of reliable transport service among the
islands of the archipelago is of vital economic and political importance;
and (iii) tariff increases required to pay for the new capital for shipping
have to be minimized in order to reduce adverse developmental impacts in
distant islands. If shipowners could borrow from the international capital
market with the guarantee of the Government, they could borrow at about 9%
to 10% p.a. By borrowing directly from the international capital market and
allowing PANN to re-lend the proceeds at 10% p.a., the Government is pro-
viding competitive financial terms to Indonesian shipowners and relieving
them of a foreign exchange risk.
III. ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
A.   The Government
3.01      The Department of Communications (DOC) is responsible, among
other things, for the administration of the maritime sector. It includes
a planning bureau, finance, personnel, and secretariat groups, and a
Research and Development Board and a Training Board. Separate Directorates
General for Air, Land, and Sea Communications, Tourism, and Postal Services
and Telecommunications are responsible to the Minister.
3.02      In the maritime sector, the Minister is responsible for issuing
legally binding decrees which may set or alter freight rates for the RLS
and tariffs for port and stevedoring operations as well as regulate ship-
ping activities, including classification of ships and issuance of safety
and operating certificates. By delegation from the Minister of Finance,
the Minister of Communications may appoint the supervisory board of state
companies in the transport and communication sectors and may supervise
such companies. This is the case, in the maritime sector, for PELNI
(paras 3.06-3.08) and the newly formed shipping development company, P.T.
Pembangunan Armada Niaga Nasional (PANN) (paras 3.09-3.11).



- 6 -
B.   Directorate General of Sea Communications
3.03      The Directorate General of Sea Communications (SEACOM) is
responsible for all maritime operations through its directorates of ship-
ping 1/, ports and dredging, traffic, shipyards, navigational aids and
communications, and coast guard (Chart 1). The Director General and nearly
all of his present directors have been involved in the planning and execution
of Credit 318-IND for rehabilitation of the inter-island shipping fleet.
SEACOM has received bilaterally financed technical assistance for shipping
operations from the Netherlands and Japan, and for navigational aids and
communications from a number of countries. A description of this technical
assistance is contained in Annex 4.
C.   Ship-Owners and Operators
(a) The Private Sector
3.04      There are 55 private shipping companies with 230 ships aggregating
174,000 dwt licensed to operate in the Indonesian inter-island trade. Of
these, 46 operate in the RLS. Only eight companies in the private sector
have qualified for rehabilitation loans from BAPINDO, the project executing
agency (para 3.12) under Credit 318-IND. It is unlikely that many more
will prove creditworthy and therefore be capable of buying ships under the
proposed project. The majority of the companies are poorly managed and do
not maintain adequate finances or records, and many operate unsafe, poorly
maintained (para 2.07) and technically inadequate ships (Chart 2). Some
companies, perhaps 15 to 20 at most, carry out efficient operations and
maintenance, and are perhaps making profits. However, many of these more
efficient companies, owned by "non-indigenous" operators, are excluded by
Ministry of Finance regulations from access to credit of the state banks;
they would, however, be able to buy or lease ships from PANN (para 3.09)
under its rules.
3.05      The decree 2/ establishing the licensing of shipping companies
requires ownership of a minimum of two ships in order to engage in stevedoring.
This requirement seems to have been responsible for the proliferation of
shipping companies (about 27 out of the total of 55 private shipping com-
panies) having only two ships and weak financial condition. The requirement
was originally designed to improve and extend stevedoring in ports in outlying
regions, which are served infrequently. However, as such services are now
adequate, the link between stevedoring and shipping should be made optional;
this change was also recommended by the LTFD. Separation of the two functions
may result in the sale, charter or scrapping of ships, particularly those
owned by "two ship" companies, and lead to the gradual appearance of a small
1/   This Directorate licenses shipping companies and assigns routes and
tonnage to each route. A subsidiary organization assigns ships to
these routes in consultation with ship-owners and operators.
2/   Presidential Decree of 2 of 1969.



- 7 -
group of stronger companies. The implementation of the change could be made
easier by the separation of payments for shipping and stevedoring functions
in the revised cost-based RLS tariff. The Government has been made aware
of these views and will take them into consideration as it moves to strengthen
the structure of the industry.
(b) P.T. Pelayaran Nasional Indonesia (PELNI)
3.06      Government-owned PELNI is the largest inter-island shipping com-
pany in Indonesia. It carries about two-thirds of inter-island RLS pas-
senger traffic, 40% of cargo and operates its own large stevedoring and
forwarding divisions. Its 49 ships, 21 of which have been rehabilitated
under Credit 318-IND during the past two years, represent about 40% of RLS
ship tonnage. PELNI will continue to be a major factor in RLS operations
in the future. It will be a major beneficiary of the proposed loan, though
not a direct party to it.
3.07      PELNI has been a financially and operationally troubled company
for many years. Since 1972, the Netherlands has financed, at the Government's
request, a team of six advisors to assist in improving PELNI management and
operations. So far, the advisors have had limited success in having their
advice accepted and, thus, in raising PELNI's productivity and operational
capability to a reasonable standard. Yet, they believe that PELNI's pro-
ductivity could be doubled by reducing port time, by better maintenance,
and by reducing deviation from schedules and routes. A number of operating
goals to be achieved by 1979 have been proposed by the advisors and are
included in detail in Annex 5. These have the objective of increasing
PELNI productivity by 1979. The present advisory services will be continued
to March 1977, under Netherland bilateral aid and will be extended under
the project until March 1979 (para. 4.20).
3.08      PELNI's management has not responded adequately to many of the
advisors' suggestions, with the result that the company still has severe
operational problems which must be overcome. This is a serious problem
if PELNI is to continue to be the backbone of the RLS system. A new
management was installed in late 1975 with a view to achieving operational
and financial improvements and reducing the need for budgetary assistance re-
quired from the Government, amounting to Rp. 3.4 billion over the past two years.
In view of the inability of PELNI to make a profit, even when freight traffic
and revenues increased and sound advice was given by its advisors, a thorough
review of the company's operations leading to a specific plan of action is
provided for in the project. The Government has agreed to retain consultants
within three months of signing the proposed loan, to prepare a recovery plan
(para. 4.22 and Annex 4).
(c) P.T. Pembangunan Armada Niaga Nasional (PANN)
3.09      PANN was organized as a commercial company in May 1974 on the
advice of the LTFD and the Japanese shipping advisors to SEACOM to procure
and lease ships to financially weak RLS ship-owners. It commenced operations



with an initial equity of Rp 2.0 billion (US$4.8 million equivalent) and plans
to to acquire 47 new and 47 used ships utilizing Japanese and Norwegian export
credits and loans from BAPINDO and the proposed loan. It has access to Govern-
ment budget funds only through Government purchase of equity and it operates in
all respects as a commercial company. The company's lack of experience requires
active participation of BAPINDO (para 3.12) in the execution of the project, for
this reason the Government decided that PANN would be owned in the initial
years 40% by BAPINDO with the remaining shares in the hands of the Govern-
ment 1/. PANN will act as a financial intermediary and will acquire all the
project ships after arranging for their sale or lease to acceptable shipping
companies on terms adequate to recover the capital invested, interest costs
on its borrowings, and a profit margin from which its expenses would be paid.
As ships would be fully insured at replacement value (para 3.16), PANN would
incur risk only when ship operators did not earn sufficient revenues to meet
payments on their leases. With ships assigned to specific routes, with freight
tariffs linked to capital and operating costs and under yearly review (para.
5.08), and with a more efficient PELNI to operate any ships of private
operators whose leases may be in default, PANN's financial position would be
secure assuming that the forecast cargo tonnages (para 6.02) are offered.
Default on PANN leases by the private sector would result in financial
difficulties for PANN. The Government has agreed to adequately compensate
PELNI in the event that PELNI would incur arrears to PANN or BAPINDO as a
result of operations carried out at the Government's request. Difficulties
arising from defaults may also be ameliorated by the transfer of the ships
involved to PELNI or to other operators. A description of PANN operations and
finances is given in Chapter V and Annex 6.
3.10      PANN has a Board of Supervisors, or Dewan Komisaris, to set
overall policy and to supervise major financial matters and a Board of
Management, or Direksi, to operate the company 2/. The top executives who
have been appointed are experienced and satisfactory to the Bank. PANN's
1/   BAPINDO's risk exposure in PANN via loans and equity could exceed the
limits for lending to individual companies noted in its "Policy State-
ment" prepared in connection with the Bank's industrial loans. The
Government has agreed to limit BAPINDO's share ownership and its loan
exposure in accordance with the "Policy Statement" (para. 4.11). Thus
BAPINDO's share at PANN equity will decline in the future.
2/ The Dewan is composed of the President of PANN; the President of P.T.
Jakarta Lloyd, one of Indonesia's largest shipping companies engaged in
ocean shipping; the Managing Director BAPINDO's Maritime Credit Depart-
ment; and SEACOM's Director Shipbuilding. The Direksi is composed of
the President of PANN, a Vice President of Sales and Purchases, and a
Technical Vice-President. In the future, PANN may have additional
directors.



- 9 -
charter is satisfactory. It was agreed during negotiations that PANN's
Direksi would seek Dewan approval each quarter for the investment program
for the coming quarter, based on the annual approval by the shareholders
of an investment plan. These arrangements are satisfactory and are incor-
porated in PANN's "Policy Statement Memorandum" (Annex 7). PANN has
appointed Indonesian legal counsel (Gani Djemat and Associates, Indonesia)
and auditors (P.T.SGV-UTOMO, 1/ Indonesia) satisfactory to the Bank. It
will also retain internationally recruited financial and technical advisors
acceptable to the Bank to assist in ship acquisition and in training staff
(para 4.21). PANN will also retain BAPINDO, under a two year contract
acceptable to the Bank, to undertake appraisals of lessees and ship purchasers
and to train PANN appraisal staff.
3.11      PANN discussed its proposed plan of operations with the Bank during
negotiations and has prepared an outline of its proposed leasing and ship sales
policies and procedures. Agreement on procurement procedures and the form and
content of sale and lease documents to be used was reached during negotiations
(paras 4.14 to 4.19 and Annex 7).
D.  Other Organizations
(a) Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
3.12      This major state-owned development bank has received two credits
and one loan from the Bank Group for industrial finance and ship rehabilita-
tion totalling US$68.5 million. A detailed review and appraisal of BAPINDO
is contained in the Bank's Appraisal Report, 526a-IND, dated October 22,
1974. The Association's first industrial credit of US$10 million (Credit
310-IND) was fully committed within three years. A second industrial loan
(1054-IND) for US$50 million equivalent was made by the Bank on November 20,
1974. Disbursement by BAPINDO was initially slow, but is now satisfactory.
The Bank will continue to maintain its close relationship with BAPINDO.
3.13      A Maritime Credit Department (MCD) was organized within BAPINDO
in connection with Credit 318-IND in mid 1972. The MCD is staffed with
competent personnel and provided with advisors in ship finance and repair
formerly financed by UNDP under a Bank executed contract. The contracts
of the advisors will be renewed until mid February 1978 and financed from
the proposed new loan (para. 4.23). The MCD under BAPINDO's key executives
who are technical and financial experts, has operated satisfactorily. After
a slow start, the volume of MCD operations increased sharply in 1974 and
1975. Credit 318-IND is about 78% committed by BAPINDO but due to sharp
cost increases since the original repair estimates were made in 1972, only
about half the tonnage forecast will be repaired. BAPINDO's maritime
portfolio as of December 31st 1975 consisted of Rp. 10,458 million in long
term loans, of which loans made under the Credits 310-IND and 318-IND
accounted for Rp. 2,349 million (22%) and loans from BAPINDO's own funds
Rp. 2,025 million (20%) while the balance Rp. 6,084 million (58%) has been
1/   A joint venture of Sycip Gorres Velayo and Co. and P.T. Utomo.



- 10 -
submitted for re-imbursement under Loan No. 1054-IND. Arrears of principal
and interest at December 31st 1975 amounted to 10% of the portfolio or
Rp. 1,043 million. Rp. 554 million of these arrears were accounted for by
PELNI. By the end of February 1976 repayments on a number of the outstanding
accounts had been made and arrears were reduced to Rp. 821 million (Annex 1).
Rp. 156 million of the reduction resulted from an agreed rescheduling of
instalments of principal in one case where the impact of fleet repairs on
operations has drastically reduced cash generation temporarily. In the
first week of March 1976, PELNI reduced its arrears by Rp. 117 million
thus leaving Rp. 437 million arrears outstanding. This payment reduced
total arrears to Rp. 704 million representing 6.7% of the MCD investment
portfolio.
(b) Biro Klasifikasi Indonesia (BKI)
3.14      Indonesian law requires that every Indonesian ship over 100
gross tons 1/ be registered with the ship classification society, Biro
Klasifikasi Indonesia (BKI). All ships in the RLS, and most of the inter-
island fleet, must be classified. BKI standards, although similar to those
of many international societies, are uncertain in application. Because
many of its surveyors lack training and experience, the survey of work
specified for repair and the actual work done is often inferior or incomplete.
Through bilateral aid from the Federal Republic of Germany, training of BKI
personnel has proceeded since 1971 under the direction of the experts of
Germanischer Lloyd (GL), an internationally recognized ship classification
group. This training is expected to be financed under bilateral aid from
Germany. However, should such aid not be available it will be financed by a
Norwegian grant until July 1978 (para. 4.20 and Annex 4).
3.15      Besides safety, a major purpose of ship classification is to maintain
minimum technical standards so as to realize lower insurance premiums. In
order to achieve this purpose, as well as to ensure a sound execution of
its project, the Association required that Credit 318-IND be disbursed only
where ships were dually classified. 2/ In order to continue the process of
improvement of survey work, and to support the process of familiarizing the
insurance market about BKI, the Government has agreed to cause BKI's ship
classification standards to conform to those of any internationally recognized
ship classification society acceptable to the Bank. Dual classification
of all ships acquired or rehabilitated by PANN from the proceeds of the
proposed Loan will be maintained until each ship has passed its first
quadrennial survey after acquisition.
1/   A measure of cubic capacity within a ship.
2/   Classification by BKI and an internationally recognized classification
group is required. GL has arranged that no extra fee will be charged
for dual BKI/GL registration, so most dual classing is presently with
GL.



- 11 -
3.16      Insurance of ships in Indonesia to cover all risks is expensive
and usually is quoted at from 4% p.a. to 6% p.a. of the value of ships.
Goveriment regulations require that all insurance be placed with an
Indonesian company which may then reinsure about 25% internationally. Ex-
perience with Credit 318-IND indicates that it is difficult to elicit a
competitive market response for ship insurance in Indonesia. The proposed
loan will ensure the continuation of technical assistance on navigational
aid and communications, as well as provide for training of engineers and
navigators (para 4.25). These measures may reduce the casualty rate at
sea. PANN has agreed to hire a qualified insurance executive and to require
"iall risk" coverage on replacement cost for all of its ships and for ships
in which it has a beneficial interest to be included in all leases, hire
purchase, and sales contracts. PANN has agreed to seek fleet insurance from
national and international insurance companies in order to select the best
coverage at the lowest cost.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project will finance the rehabilitation of existing vessels
and the procurement of about 60% of the additional tonnage included in the
five-year program proposed by the LTFD. As the consultants' traffic forecast,
on which their recommendations were based, appears to be too optimistic, the
balance of tonnage, not financed under the current program will be subject
to further economic study. While the total program proposed by the con-
sultants for the period to the end of 1979 is estimated to cost not less
than US$587 million equivalent at current prices and to provide 195,655 dwt,
the proposed project will cost only about US$195 million - 33% of the total
proposed program cost - but will provide about 60% of the tonnage proposed
by the consultants. The lower cost is due to emphasis on purchasing used
ships and rehabilitation of existing ships whereas the program proposed by
the consultants envisaged only the purchase of new ships. All but about US$5.4
million of the project cost will be in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank
loan of US$54 million equivalent will provide 28% of the foreign exchange
required.
4.02      The first priority of the project is the continuation of the
rehabilitation program and the scrapping of over age and technically defi-
cient ships which are too costly to repair. The second priority is procure-
ment of used cargo ships and new cargo and cargo-passenger ships of standard
design in the 750, 1,000, 1,500 and 2,500 dwt classes (Chart 3). Emphasis is
also placed on the continuation of existing, and the initiation of new tech-
nical assistance and training programs, with the assistance of bilateral and
other lenders.



- 12 -
4003      The project forms a part of the program of reconstructing and expand-
ing the inter-island fleet. This program provides about 53,750 dwt of new
ships, 59,500 dwt of used ships to be acquired outside Indonesia and the re-
habilitation of 54,500 dwt of operational ships (Table 2). The project
consists of the following elements:
(a) Rehabilitation, where economically sound and technically
and financially feasible, of 54,500 dwt of existing inter-
island ships;
(b) procurement of about 47 used cargo ships, totalling about
52,000 dwt, in the 1,000, 1,500 and 2,500 dwt classes
(about 41, 4, and 2 in each class, respectively);
(c) procurement of 47 new standard cargo and cargo-passenger
ships, totalling about 50,250 dwt, in the 750, 1,000,
and 1,500 dwt classes (about 13, 21 and 13 in each class);
(d) scrapping of about 70,000 dwt of existing inter-island
ships of over 500 dwt which cannot be economically
rehabilitated;
(e) a technical assistance and training program, designed to
support and improve inter-island fleet operations and
planning, and the trainin.g of marine officers and engineers;
and
(f) a study to determine shipping requirements during the remainder
of Repelita II and the period up to 1990.
The balance of eight used and four new ships required to complete the Govern-
ment's program, totalling 7,500 dwt and 3,500 dwt respectively, will be
acquired (i) by transfer to PELNI as equity of two new ships provided by
1972 Japanese bilateral aid and, (ii) by private finance already arranged
by several shipping companies.
33.  Cost Estimate8
4.04      The proiect is estimated to cost about US$195 million equivalent of
which 97% is foreign exchange. This includes delivery costs of US$8.5 mil-
lion equivalent, and a physical contingency of US$2.5 million equivalent to
provide for modification of some used ships to suit them for Indonesian
service. Mhe project cost excludes interest during construction of US$6.3
million equivalent which will be financed by PANN from its cash generation
rpara 5.03),  Prices of new ships are based on fixed price contracts already
signed with Indonesian, Japanese and Norwegian shipyards. These contracts
were based on detailed specifications satisfactory to the Bank. Shipyard
prices were checked using a man-hour and materials list and, considering the
Credit terms involved, appear to be reasonable. The Government has stated that



- 13 -
the new ship prices obtained from Norwegian shipyards, taken together with
the credit terms involved, are the lowest obtained from a number of offers
made by various countries. Used ship prices are expected to remain stable
during the procurement period to mid-1977 and no provision for escalation
is believed necessary. Costs of rehabilitation, mainly to be undertaken
in Indonesia, are for labor, steel and equipment. These costs, amounting
to US$9.5 million equivalent, are assumed to inerease by 15% in 1976, 10%
in 1977 and in 1978, and by 7.5% in 1979. Estimated project costs by
category are given below and are detailed in Annexes 4 and 6, Attachment 9.
Million Rupiah          Million US$             %
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Project
1.  Rehabilitation        1,584    2,374   3,958    3.8       5.7      9.5    4.9
2.  Used Ships              -      17,084  17,084    -       41.2    41.2   21.1
3.  New Ships               -      51,529  51,529    -      124.2   124.2   63.6
4.  Delivery Costs          -       3,536   3,536    -         8.5     8.5    4.4
5. Technical Assistance
to:
(a)  PANN               -         124     124    -        0.3      0.3    0.1
(b)  Government         166    2,365   2,531    0.4       5.7      6.1    3.1
6. Base Cost Estimate
(BCE)                1,750   77,012  78,762    4.2   185.6   189.8   97.2
7. Expected
Price
Increase               483       723   1,206    1.2      1.7      2.9    1.5
8.  Physical Contingency   -        1,038   1,038    -         2.5     2.5    1.3
9.  Project Cost          2,233   78,773  81,006    5.4   189.8   195.2  100.0
10. Additional Financing
Required for Interest
During Construction    75    2,523   2,598    0.2        6.1      6.3    3.2
11. Total Finance
Required             2,308   81,296  83,604    5.6   195.9   201.5



- 14 -
C.   Financing Plan
(a) Sources of Funds
4.05      The proposed financing plan for the project is summarized below
and the physical participation of Norway and Japan is  given in para. 4.14:
-------------------------Millions of US$-------------------------
Project Cost          Source of Financing
Cost           Japan  Norway                      Proposed
Base  Escalation Total (OECF) Ln/Gr. BAPINDO PANN Govt. Loan Total
Rehabilitation       9.5       2.9     12.4    -      _      4.0/a 1.1/a  -    7.3  12.4
Used Ships          41.2        -      41.2    -      -      5.6/b  -      -   35.6  41.2
New Ships          124.2        -     124.2  25.0   93.8    5.4/b  -       -   -    124.2
Delivery Cost        8.5        -       8.5    -      3.7      -     -     -    4.8   8.5
Technical Assis-
tance to Pann      0.3       -        0.3    -      0.3     --   -                   0.3
Technical Assis-
tance to Govt.    6.1        -        6.1    -      1.9     -      -    0.4   3.8   6.1
Physical contin-
gency (used ships)2.5                2.5    -      -       _                  2.5   2.5
Total project
cOst             192.3      2.9    195.2  25.0   99.7   15.0   1.1   0.4  54.0 195.2
Interest during
Construction (c)                      6.3   _       -       -    6.3    -    -       6.3
Total Financing                                          /d
Required                            201.5  25.0   99.7   15.0   7.4   0.4  54.0 201.5
/a   Local currency
/b   For ships already ordered and to be built in Indonesia; these may be financed
from Loan 1054-IND.
/c   From PANN cash generation (para 5.03).
/d   Includes funds from Euro-American consortium banks.
4.06      A Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) loan of
US$25.0 million equivalent at 2.75% p.a. over 30 years including 10 years of
grace has already been made. The Norwegian Government has made a grant
of Nkr. 70 million (US$12.5 million) to be used for a variety of purposes
inc:Luding US$2.2 million equivalent to finance certain technical assistance
re!lated to the project (Annex 4). When the grant agreement becomes effective,
a loan of Nkr. 492 million (US$87.8 million) will be made by A/S EKSPORTFINANS,
the Norwegian export credit bank, to Indonesia for 15 years, including three
years of grace, at 8-1/2% p.a. plus a single fee of 1.9%. This loan will
cover 90% of the cost of ships and tugs (the latter not included in the
project) to be obtained under contract from a group of Norwegian and Indonesian



- 15 -
shipyards. At the same time, and to provide for 10% of the cost required to
complete the Norwegian ship finance, a consortium of banks, including Bank
of America NT&SA, Continental Illinois Bank and Trust Company of Chicago,
den Norske Creditbank, and Nordic Bank Ltd. will make a loan of US$12.0
million equivalent in kroner to the Government 1/ of which about US$10.0
million equivalent would be used for the project. This loan is for five
years ending June 15, 1981 and carries management and commitment fees of
3/4% each. It is made at a rate of 1-7/8% over the rate quoted from time
to time by designated reference banks for three or six month Eurodollar
deposits.
4.07      The financial resources provided and to be provided by the credit
and loans noted above are more than sufficient for the new ship part of the
project and specific technical assistance elements related to the project.
The proposed Bank loan of US$54.0 million equivalent would be for 15 years,
including three years of grace, at its current lending rate. All of these
loans would be made to the Government which would assume the foreign exchange
risks on repayments. Funds obtained from BAPINDO and any other local banks,
estimated to be about US$15.0 million equivalent, would be obtained at 15%
p.a., the current term lending rate, for periods determined by the type of
ship to be procured. These funds would be made available for project finance
under a financing agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to be signed between
the Government and PANN and BAPINDO prior to effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
4.08      Funds for acquiring inter-island ships in excess of the require-
ments of the project may become available from bilateral lenders and/or
foreign credits and could be applied to a subsequent project if it is
identified. Due to uncertainties about the tonnage of ships required, traffic
growth and cargo handling (para 6.10), agreement has been reached with the
Government that, pending the results of the economic study and a review of
shipping requirements, the Bank may, after consultations with the Government,
reduce its participation in the project if more than 12,000 dwt of inter-
island ships are acquired outside the project.
(b) Flow of Funds and Use of the Proposed Loan
4.09      The Government would re-lend to PANN as debt, using Bank Indonesia
and BAPINDO for administrative purposes, about half of the funds provided
by external lenders at an interest rate of 12% p.a. for up to 15 years
including one year of grace for the purchase of new ships; up to ten years
including one year of grace for used ships; and for five years including one
year of grace for rehabilitation of existing ships. These funds will be
made available to PANN as required under the terms of its shipbuilding con-
tracts and ship purchase and rehabilitation agreements. The other half of the
1/   The total financing to be provided from Norwegian sources amounts to
US$112.3 million equivalent of which US$99.7 million equivalent would
be used for the project.



- 16 -
external funds would be passed on to PANN by the Government as equity. Loans
by BAPINDO would also be made directly to PANN, repayable over the same
repayment periods as under Government loans to PANN for new and used ships
procurement and ship rehabilitation.
4.10      The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be used (i) to procure
all of the used ships included in the project and to pay the foreign ex-
change cost of modifying them for service in Indonesia, (ii) for rehabilita-
ting existing ships, (iii) provide the foreign exchange cost of used ship
delivery to Indonesia, and (iv) for the foreign exchange cost of specific
elements of the technical assistance program and of the economic study.
4.11      Repayment by PANN to BAPINDO and the Government would be related to
collections. BAPINDO's interest in any ship it finances, and which is
subsequently sold by PANN, will be protected by adequate amounts of ship
mortgages. Agreement on lending and re-lending terms and conditions to be
included in a subsidiary financing agreement, to be agreed as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan, has been reached with the Government,
RAPINDO and PANN during negotiations (paras. 4.09 and 5.04). Agreement has
also been reached during negotiations that the Government's loan and equity
contribution to PANN will be made available in a regular and timely fashion
related to PANN's needs; and that the Government will ensure that (i) BAPINDO
resources amounting to a maximum of about US$15.0 million equivalent will be
provided to be loaned to PANN, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
and (ii) BAPINDO will abide by its-covenants to and agreements with the Bank
on account of the previous Bank loans and credits.
D.   Project Execution and Procurement
(a) Project Execution
4.12      The project will be executed by PANN and BAPINDO, with the assis-
tance of consultants acceptable to the Bank, under the supervision of SEACOM.
BAPINDO, for the first two years of the project and subsequently PANN, will
prepare a comprehensive appraisal report on the shipping enterprise seeking
to lease or buy ships from PANN (Annex 7). This report will make recom-
mendations about the measures to be taken to improve the enterprise and to
be embodied in a Development Agreement between PANN and the shipping enter-
prise forming part of the lease or sale. On approval of this appraisal by
PANN alone in the case of new ships and by PANN and the Bank in the case of
used ships, PANN will procure ships for lease or sale. In order to ensure
that all shipping companies are involved in the Government's program, im-
proved means of enforcing existing regulations related to safety, the
classification of ships, and the financial and operational state of shipping
companies would also be required. DOC and SEACOM have issued the necessary
administrative orders to enforce the existing and revised safety and classi-
fication regulations in effect and to enable PANN and BAPINDO to execute
the project properly. NKI, SEACOM, PANN and BAPINDO will be assisted by
consultants in carrying out their responsibilities under the project.



- 17 -
4.13      Successful project implementation also requires removing from
service over age and/or technically deficient ships, with the objective of
scrapping 70,000 dwt of existing inter-island licensed ships of over 500 dwt
which cannot be economically rehabilitated by December 31, 1979. Agreement
has been reached with the Government that it will prepare, by August 31, 1976,
and cause to be undertaken, on a basis agreed with the Bank 1/, a specific
scrapping and rehabilitation program tied to a specific program of acquisition
of new and used ships.
(b) Procurement
4.14      Procurement of new ships under agreements between the Government,
Norway and Japan has been arranged by PANN using specifications acceptable
to the Bank and developed by naval architects, Bureau voor Scheepsbouw (BvS)
(Netherlands), who are satisfactory to the Bank and are financed by the
Netherlands. Twenty new ships will be procured from Norwegian shipyards under
commercial arrangements and six from Indonesian shipyards. Seven new ships
will be built in Japan and five OECF financed ships will be built in Indonesia.
Nine ships will be built in Indonesia using BAPINDO funds under procedures
established for Loan 1054-IND (Annex 6, Attachement 1).
4.15      Used ship procurement is more complex than is new ship procurement
because the ships to be acquired are mainly located at a great distance from
Indonesia and can only be inspected at times and places difficult to arrange
much in advance. Such purchases, being non-standardized, require negotiation
of the sale price and the time of availability, and require detailed inspection
and, sometimes, repair or modification to bring them up to classification
standard before they can be used for Indonesian service. International
competitive bidding is inappropriate for the purchase of used ships in the
number and variety contemplated. Instead PANN's consultant naval architect-
surveyors, shipbrokers (exclusively representing PANN), and resident
financial and technical advisors will assist in identifying and procuring,
through a canvass of the international market, appropriate used ships and
negotiating purchase and as necessary, repair contracts for them. The
estimated cost of used ships to be acquired will be included in the
appraisal report to be approved by the Bank and more closely determined
on the signing by PANN of an internationally accepted sale form. After an
inspection of the ship in question PANN will notify the Bank of the final
price and, if the Bank agrees, will proceed to acquire the ship under a
1/   A committee has been set-up by SEACOM to develop the details of
the scrapping program. The Government has agreed in principle that
any ship over 20 years of age and/or that cannot be rehabilitated
economically should be scrapped.



- 18 -
letter of credit guaranteed by the Bank. Used ship procurement contracts
of PANN will be based on documents satisfactory to the Bank 1/ and will con-
tain arrangements satisfactory to the Bank covering verification of relevant
documents and cost prior to disbursement. The detailed procedures are
described in Annex 7.
4.16      International competitive bidding is also impractical in the case
of rehabilitation of ships as each repair costs a relatively small amount
and may involve the purchase of a wide variety of proprietary parts. It is
proposed to continue the procedures established for ship rehabilitation under
Credit 318-IND. This work will be undertaken mainly in Indonesian shipyards.
Funds for shipyard improvement are available from a variety of sources,
including the Bank's recent industrial loan (Loan 1054-IND) and a number
of possible foreign joint ventures now under discussion.
4.17      A procedure and check-list of documentation and important procure-
ment and operating considerations have been discussed with PANN and BAPINDO
and are incorporated in a "Policy Statement Memorandum" agreed on during
negotiations (Annex 7) to be adopted by PANN's Dewan Komisaris and used by
the Direksi in carrying out PANN operations.
4.18      The proposed loan would also finance about US$1.0 million equivalent
for specialized equipment suitable for a maritime training school. It is
expected that procurement of this equipment will be undertaken, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, by the Inter-governmental Maritime
Consultative Organization (IMCO) acting as procurement agent for the
Government using, so far as is practicable, the procedures set out in the
Bank "Guidelines for Procurement". Where these procedures are deemed to be
impracticable by the Bank, procurement will be made through international
shopping.
4.19      Agreement has been reached with the Government during negotiations
that legislation providing for registering ship mortgages during the delivery
voyage of ships acquired and sold overseas will be promulgated. In the
meantime PANN has agreed that it will not sell its ships until they will
have arrived in Indonesia, where mortgage security exists. Copies of all
PANN project appraisals and summaries of all contracts and leases entered
into by PANN will be made available to the Bank for information. BAPINDO
will, similarly, forward to the Bank copies of its project appraisals
relating to any purchase of used ship or to any rehabilitation undertaken.
Agreement on these procedures was reached during negotiations.
E.   Technical Assistance and Consultants
4.20      During the past three years, a substantial technical assistance
and training program has been underway in the maritime sector. This program
1/   Procurement of used ships will also use standard forms, i.e., Japanese
and Norwegian Sales forms. An appraisal of the shipping company and
a Development Agreement will also be approved by the Bank prior to
procurement.



- 19 -
has been funded by bilateral lenders, UNDP, ADB, and the Association. The
programs directly related to the improvement of inter-island shipping are
described in Annex 4.  Some of these programs must be continued in connec-
tion with the proposed project. These are: assistance to BKI, training
of ship inspectors, advisory and planning services to SEACOM, training of
crews, communications advisory services, and advisory services to PELNI
and BAPINDO, described in more detail in paras 4.22 and 4.23. While some
of these activities have already been funded for up to two additional years,
it is prudent to ensure the continuation of these projects. The Govern-
ment has agreed to apply to the bilateral lenders now financing these projects
for their continuation until the end of 1978 or the end of the first quarter
in 1979. Should such finance not be available, the Government will continue
to finance these projects under arrangements acceptable to the Bank. In the
case of advisory services to SEACOM, PELNI, and BAPINDO funds are included
in the proposed loan to provide the required technical assistance to these
institutions.
4.21      Several new programs have also been included in the proposed project
and are described in detail in Annex 4. They are provision of instruc-
tors and equipment for training marine engineers and deck officers described
more fully in Section F, below; technical assistance to PANN amounting to
about US$0.3 million equivalent over three years for resident financial and
technical advisors, a large overseas training program financed by NORAD for
802 man-months for SEACOM, PANN, and PELNI, provision of instructors and
equipment for a shipyard training centre, also financed by NORAD, advisory
services for the revision of shipping safety regulations; management con-
sultant services for a review of PELNI operations noted in para. 3.08; and
the economic study of future shipping requirements.
4.22      In the case of PELNI, funds for continuing the present advisory
team from March 1977 to March 1978 have been included in the proposed loan
with the agreement of the Government in case further Netherlands financing
is not available. The Netherlands has agreed to act for the Bank in
administering any contract extension required. The services of a recognized
management consultant experienced in shipping are required to review PELNI's
procedures and operations. This study will be initiated within three months
of signing the proposed loan with a view to preparing a plan of action
acceptable to the Bank within the following 12 months, and implementing it.
Additional services for PELNI are likely to result from the management con-
sultant's report and provision has been made in the loan for about 108 man-
months of specialist services for carrying out and supervising improved
shipboard maintenance and repair services. Should PANN or shipyards require
additional technical assistance, these funds would also be available.
4.23      With the assistance of its advisors, BAPINDO is considered to be
sufficiently experienced and able to undertake initial preparation of
appraisal reports to be used as basis of PANN's leasing and sales of ships.
To continue the advisory services, the contracts for the two existing MCD
advisors will be extended until the end of February 1978. Funds have been



- 20 -
included in the Bank's proposed loan for this purpose. The extension of
these advisors' contracts has been requested by BAPINDO and agreed to by
the Government (para. 4.26).
4.24      The total amount of technical assistance included in the project
is US$6.4 million equivalent, of which about US$1.3 million is to finance
existing programs and US$5.1 million is for financing new programs. The
foreign exchange cost of the technical assistance program is estimated to
be US$6.0 million equivalent. Of this, NORAD will provide US$2.3 million
equivalent and the proposed loan US$3.8 million equivalent. The latter would
finalnce about 570 man-months of consulting services at an average annual cost
of US$64,000 equivalent and US$1.0 million equivalent of training equipment.
1:n the event that any of the US$3.7 million equivalent of funds proposed to be
provided by the Bank are not required, they will be reallocated for ship pro-
curement and/or rehabilitation.  The Bank has obtained agreement from NORAD that
NORD will consult the Bank about the terms of reference and qualification
of the consultants to be financed by it. In special cases the Government will
request bilateral donors to extend certain existing technical assistance
arraingements to be financed by the proposed project. Agreement has been
reached during negotiation that the technical assistance program described
-in paras 4.20 to 4.23, and in Annex 4, will be undertaken.
J.   Training
4.25      A training program for ship crews and marine officers is included
i-n :the proposed technical assistance component of the loan (Annex 4). Bi-
Ilateral aid from Japan will finance crew training and the training courses
will be organized by four Japanese experts (24 man-months). Further crew
training is included in the NORAD program and amounts to about 200 man-
months. The Bank has agreed to a program with the Government for training
of1 navigating and engineering officers involving an estimated 294 man-months
of assistance in planning, training and instruction preceded by a three
nionlzh survey to determine the precise need for instructors and equipment.
1he training program has the objective of doubling the annual output of
trainees by 1980 to reach 400 per year.  The officers' training program
proposed would be financed by the proposed loan and is expected to be
executed by IMCO which has carried out similar projects in Brazil and Egypt.
Equipment procurement for this part of the project would be based on a
14s: to be prepared by an IMCO survey team and will be agreed by the Bank.
(>7 Disbursement
,426      The proposed Bank loan would finance 60% of each ship rehabilitation
or modification done in Indonesia and 100% of each rehabilitation or modifi-
cation done abroad, 100% of the foreign exchange cost of procurement and
delivery costs of each secondhand ship, 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of foreign consultants and technical assistance and equipment for the
training program, and 80% of costs of Indonesian consultants and experts.
No retroactive financing of ship procurement will be required. It is pro-
posed to finance retroactively up to US$200,000 equivalent for technical



- 21 -
of action for PELNI, for technical assistance contracts concluded after
January 31, 1976. Conditions of disbursement from the proposed loan would
be as follows: When requesting disbursement for the purchase or rehabilita-
tion of a ship an application will be submitted to the Bank together with:
(i) an appraisal by BAPINDO and PANN for the technical, operational and
financial conditions of the shipping enterprise concerned and of its ships;
(ii) a statement from SEACOM indicating which ships, if any, of the shipping
enterprise concerned are to be rehabilitated or scrapped; (iii) a certified
copy of the Development Agreement between PANN and the shipping enterprise
concerned executed pursuant to the provisions of the Project Agreement;
and (iv) (a) in respect of the purchase of a used ship, a description of
the ship, certified copies of the purchase contract and the bill of sale, a
certificate issued by SEACOM that the ship meet the Government's licensing
requirements and will be registered, a deletion certificate, confirmation by
Pann that the ship is acceptable, and a certificate issued by an inter-
nationally recognized ship classification society acceptable to the Bank
that the ship is in class; or (b) in respect of the rehabilitation of a
ship, a description of the rehabilitation works to be carried out, a certi-
fied copy of that contract between PANN and the shipyard that shall carry
out such works, and certificates issued by SEACOM and BKI showing that the
rehabilitation works are designed to meet at least the Government's shipping
regulations and BKI's classification standards. A disbursement schedule is
given in Table 3. A forecast implementation schedule is included in Annex 8.
H.   Environmental Impact
4.27      There are no Indonesian regulations dealing with the pollution
of the sea by inter-island ships. Indonesia is a member of IMCO and is,
therefore, bound by international conventions when they are in force. To
date, few IMCO anti-pollution of the sea conventions are in force, although
many countries have adopted the conventions related to oil pollution. The
new ships to be procured by PANN will be equipped with sewage tanks and
oily water separators meeting the IMCO specifications. Used ships to be
acquired under the project which would have been operating in, mainly,
European and Japanese territorial waters will meet the relevant anti-pollution
requirements.
I.   Project Risks
4.28      Because the proposed project is based on estimates of traffic
growth and will provide for only a modest expansion of the existing inter-
island fleet (paras 6.09 and 6.10), there is only a small chance that the
ships provided under the project would be underutilized or that the
economic results of the project would be adversely affected (para 6.13).
However, a major risk is that continued lax enforcement of safety and ship
classification society rules would result in a reduced ship scrapping and
rehabilitation program and continued operation of many obsolete and unsafe
vessels. These risks would arise from the undercutting of freight rates by
owners of ships having little or no book value and, as a result, shipowners
who have leased project ships would be unable to secure sufficient freight
at going rates to pay for the costly new assets. Major financial risks would



- 22 -
then have to be faced. Proposals have been made to deal with these
possibilities through new administrative orders of SEACOM calling for
timely and proper ship inspection (para 3.15), by stricter enforcement of
regulations (para 4.12), by improvements to shipping companies and through
better training (paras. 4.12 and 4.25), by the implementation of the scrap-
ping and rehabilitation program (para 4.13), and by increased freight rates
(para 5.08).
J. Possible Future Developments
4.29      The present project covers only a part of the RLS fleet expan-
sion plan proposed by the consultants. A study, which would be carried out
during the next 18 months as part of the project, will determine the scale
of additional shipping requirements to 1979 as well as make a traffic pro-
jection to 1990 (para 6.10). Additional loans for ship procurement are
foreseen, as is a continuation of technical assistance, particularly training
for navigators and marine engineers for at least the next five years.
Technical assistance needs of shipyards may be met by commercial sources,
possibly as part of the joint venture agreements or through continuation of
bilateral aid. An expanded technical training program for shipyards will
also be required. Improvement of port operators will continue to be an
urgent task for the Government.
V. FINANCIAL REVIEW
A.   Introduction
5.01      Though PANN is the major recipient of the proposed loan, PELNI
is expected to lease and operate about half of the ships involved. In-
come to PANN depends on the earnings of RLS operators but, except for PELNI
and the seven small companies which have received rehabilitation loans under
Credit 318-IND, financial records are unavailable. It has therefore been
decided to forecast the financial position of PANN and, by analyzing the
implications for PELNI of its participation in the project, to attempt to
infer implications for the RLS fleet as a whole. The financial implications
affect both existing laws and the tariff. It must be emphasized, however,
that the financial projections made are largely on the basis of assumptions
as given briefly in para 5.02 and in detail in Annexes 5 and 6. Nevertheless,
they serve to indicate the financial positions of PANN and PELNI during and
following project execution and are considered reasonable.
B.   The Forecast Financial Position of PANN
.5.02     PANN will acquire all the project ships (47 new and 47 used) and
will operate as a commercial leasing company earning net revenues from the
net margin it maintains between its lending interest rate and its weighted
cost of capital; a 3.75% net margin will provide sufficient revenue. Thus,
with PANN's income derived from a 10% interest rate included in its sale



- 23 -
or lease calculations, it would be able to acquire 50% debt at a weighted
average cost of about 12.5%, blending the 15% cost of funds from BAPINDO
with funds from the Government at 12%, and still earn an amount equal to
about 4% on its equity. 1/ These financing assumptions, used in preparing
the financial forecasts for PANN4, were agreed during negotiations. Details
of the projections and assumptions used are summarized below and, together
with a procurement and disbursement schedule for PANN, are detailed in
Annex 6.
5.03      The total acquisition cost to PANN of the project ships (plus
technical assistance to PANN) to the end of 1979 is about Rp. 81.1 billion
(US$195.4 million) including interest during construction and delivery costs. .fJ
Of this amount, PANN would contribute about Rp 3.1 billion (US$7.4 million)
from its own cash generation. The balance of Rp 78.0 billion (US$188.0 mil-
lion) is assumed to be made available in equal amounts of debt and equity. 3/
With about Rp. 5.9 billion (US$14.2 million) of debt from BAPINDO funds, the
Government will be obliged to provide at least an additional Rp 33.1 billion
(US$79.8 million) as debt and Rp 39.0 billion (US$94.0 million) as equity,
including the Rp 2.06 billion already provided (para 3.09).
5.04      PANN, having acquired new or used ships, or financed rehabilitation
of existing ships in the fleet, will sell or lease them at acquisition cost,
including interest during construction and delivery costs, if applicable, to
qualified Indonesian ship operators. It is expected that about half of all
of PANN's leasing will be to PELNI. Loans for sales of new ships, with a
minimum 10% cash deposit and a 1% commitment fee, would be for a maximum of
15 years, including six months grace after delivery and at an interest rate
of 10% p.a. Leases of new ships would be for varying periods of time with a
maximum of 15 years, at an interest rate of 10% with a 1% commitment fee,
and would be payable quarterly in advance. Used ships of up to 10 years of
age would be sold to shipping companies at acquisition cost, with 10% down
payment and 20% on delivery of the ship, with financing over a maximum of
10 years including 6 months' grace after delivery, at an interest rate of
10% p.a.   Leases for used ships would be on similar terms to those for new
except that the maximum term would be 10 years. Sales and lease terms would
provide PANN with the net revenues noted in para 5.02. Leases will actually
be of varying periods, on the expiration of which the leases would be revised
to reflect the depreciated replacement cost of the ships, as agreed during
negotiations. The cost of rehabilitating ships would be recovered from the
ship operator over five years, including three months grace after delivery,
at an interest rate of 10% p.a. and with a 1% commitment fee.  As noted in
para 4.13, preparation of a program of rehabilitation and scrapping tied
to a specific program of used and new ship acquisition was agreed during
negotiations.
1/   This ignores any earnings from reinvestment of surplus cash accruing to
PANN which, over the period 1976-1992, would accumulate to over Rp 55
billion. It is likely that the bulk of these funds would be re-invested
on more ships, thus increasing PANN's earnings.
2/   Included here for conservative estimating.  Included also is the acquisi-
tion of the ships noted in para 3.09. See also Annex 6, Attachment 1.
3/   PANN's debt to equity ratio may rise from 50:50 initially to 65:35 by
the time procurement is completed.



- 24 -
5.05      The cash flow for the period 1974 to 1979 (as given in Annex 6,
Attachment 8), shows that the Bank's loan provides about 27% of the resources
required by PANN to carry out the project.  Cash generation by PANN during this
period is equivalent to 30% of the proposed loan. PANN would earn a net income
i1n 1978, by which time procurement is expected to be largely completed.  PANN's
ftnimces are detailed in Annex 6 and are summarized below for the period 1974-1982:
P.T. PANN
Profit and Loss and Cash Generation, 1974-82
(Million Rupiah)
1974    1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
(Actual Estimated) ----------       (Forecast)--------------------
Gross Revenues          -      166    864  5,399  10,213 10,933 11,187 11,187 11,028
Less:  Operating
Eixpenses      27       104    300    399      425    525    525    525    525
Gross Income          (27)      62    564  5,000   9,788 10,408 10,662 10,662 10,503
Less: Depreciation    -         42    184  2,730   5,309  5,742  5,980  5,980  5,823
Net Operating
Income           (27)       20    380  2,270   4,479  4,666  4,682  4,682  4,680
Less: Interest
Charges &
Reserves        -       154    856  2,369   4,496  4,110  3,724  3,300  2,889
Net Income (Loss)   (27)    (134)  (476)  (99)    (17)   556           958  1,382  1,791
Add: Depreciation    -          42    184  2,730   5,309  5,742  5,980  5,980  5,823
Other Income          31       190      -     -        -       -      -       -       -
Reserves                -       -      644      82      18      10    -       --
Total Cash
Income               4        98    352  2,713   5,310  6,308  6,938  7,362  7,614
Less: Repayment
of Debt         -        -     130    980   2,890  3,410  3,410  3,390  3,240
Nat Cash
Generation            4        98    222  1,733   2,420  2,898  3,528  3,972  4,374
5.06      By 1980, when the project has been implemented, PANN's debt service
coverage will be 1.5 its current ratio 1.9 and debt will be about 38% of
combined debt and equity.  These ratios are satisfactory.



- 25 -
P.T. PANN
Balance Sheet, 1980
Rp. million
Total Current Assets                        8,271
Net Fixed Assets                           61,123
Other                                         549
Total Assets                               69,943
Current Liabilities                         4,353
Long Term Debt                             24,790
Reserve for Losses                            818
Equity                                     39,982
Total Liabilities and Equity               69,943
C.   Tariff Implications of the Project
5.07      The RLS freight tariff, increased by about 20% in 1973, 20% in
1974 and with a further increase of about 25% in 1975, is a commodity tariff
based on a constant factor plus a mileage allowance. It applies to ship
operations only 1/ and has been calculated to produce about an 8% return on
total capital invested in a modern efficiently operated ship of a repre-
sentative size on a representative route.
5.08      lIost existing ships have little or no book value.  Therefore,
aside from the inefficiency of operations, it might be supposed that the
current tariff would yield adequate returns. But the present poor financial
condition of most RLS companies and PELNI belies this. Poor productivity,
diversion of cash flow from the industry because of outmoded pricing policies
and poor management are common. As costly new assets are introduced into the
fleet by the project and leased to RLS companiess, their cash requirements
will increase sharply, even if company operations improve. The Government
therefore intends to continue a yearly review of planning for the inter-
island fleet, including tariffs based on costs, and to make adjustments
required to produce adequate returns on investments in shipping companies.
This was discussed and agreed during negotiations.
D.   Financial Imp
D.   Financial Implications of the Project for PELNI
5.09      PELNI now makes profits only from terminal operations and steve-
doring while its shipping activities incur losses.   Partly due to close
consultation among PELNI and its advisors, BAPINDO and the Bank, some im-
provements have been achieved in PELNI's operations over the past two years.
Additionally, in 1974 PELNI received about Rp. 2.8 billion (US$6.7 million
1/   Other tariffs are published for on-board and shore-side stevedoring,
terminal operations, and forwarding. Port charges cover a separate
group of costs.



- 26 -
equivalent) in new equity from the Government, with a further Rp 0.6 billion
(JS$1.5 million equivalent in 1975, which was used to reduce medium and
long-term debt. Repair costs, particularly in foreign shipyards, and losses
in the catering department have been reduced. As a result of these and other
actions such as the freight tariff increases referred in para 5.07, losses
were reduced by over 75% between 1973 and 1975 (Annex 5, attachment 2). As
of December 31, 1975 PELNI was in arrears in repayments on account of
rehabilitation loans received from BAPINDO in an amount of Rp. 512 million.
In the budget for 1976, a further Rp 2.7 billion (US$6.4 million equivalent)
is expected to be received from the government as additional equity. Rp 1.7
billion of this will be used to reduce long term debt. The remainder,
together with additional debt of Rp 600 million and cash generation of about
Rp 900 million by PELNI will finance investment in ships and terminal
facilities (Annex 5, Attachment 4). Nevertheless PEL-I, whose losses in the
first quarter of 1975 increased sharply, mainly due to an accident at sea,
is forecast to earn a small consolidated net profit only in 1980, after the
proposed project is completed. A small positive cash flow is estimated to
appear in 1979, increasing annually thereafter. These forecasts, however,
are based on the assumption of a 80% increase in productivity by 1979, with
PELNI leasing half of the project ships. The assumptions are further
detailed in Annex 5.
5.10      Forecasts of important aspects of PELNI costs and revenues, using
the assumptions noted in Para 5.09 and Annex 5 are set out below. They are
capable of being achieved only through an improved management and the im-
provements proposed and referred to above.



- 27 -
P.T. PELNI
Summary Profits and Loss Accounts 1974-1979
Billions of Rupiah
1974      1975       1976   1977   1978   1979
(actual) (estimated)  ---       Forecast---------
Shipping
Freight Revenues               6.6        7.6        8.1   10.5   13.6   15.8
Passenger Revenues             2.6        2.7        2.9    3.3    3.6    3.9
Total Shipping Revenues        9.2       10.3       11.0   13.8   17.2   19.7
Fixed Cost                     6.2        6.5        6.8    8.3    9.6    9.9
Variable Costs                 3.1        4.0        3.9    4.8    5.9    6.3
Total Costs                    9.3       10.5       10.7   13.1   15.5   16.2
Operating Profit (Loss)       (0.1)      (0.2)       0.3    0.7    1.7    3.5
Capital Costs (depr.
and leases)              (0.8)      (0.6)      (1.7)  (3.7)  (6.1)  (6.9)
Total Net (Losses)on Shipping    (0.9)         (0.8)      (1.4)  (3.0)  (4.4)  (3.4)
Agency/Terminal
Net Income                     1.1        1.1        1.2    1.7    2.5    2.8
Other (Expenses)              (1.0)      (0.8)      (0.6)  (0.4)   (.3)  (0-3)
Consolidated (Losses)               (0.8)      (0.5)      (0.8)  (1.7)  (2.2)  (0.9)
5.11      Thus, about Rp. 6.9 billion (US$16.6 million) in cumulative losses
from shipping operations is forecast to occur between 1974 and 1979. However,
the above figures take no account of any increases in tariffs arising from
the annual reviews referred to in para 5.08; an increase, in real terms, of
about 20% would be sufficient to enable PELNI to earn an annual net surplus
its shipping activities. Assuming that the balance of the industry leases
the remaining 50% of project ships, and that the position of private companies
is no worse than that of PELNI, 1/ the proposed tariff reviews should enable
PELNI and other companies to earn revenues sufficient to repay leases and
provide, together with the measure noted in para 5.08, funds for future
1/   In fact the position of efficiently run private companies should be
be better than that of PELNI, as the latter has to operate certain
unprofitable routes, due to assignments given by the Government.



- 26 -
investment in shipping. Bearing in mind that PELNI's poor financial outlook
reflects that of the whole industry, it becomes essential to set reasonable
targets for PELNI to achieve by the end of about 1979. The proposed manage-
ment consultant study (para 4.22) is intended both to set targets for PELNI
and to indicate what may be possible for the balance of the RLS fleet if
actions for similar recovery plans are taken. It will also be necessary to
review the position as more up-to-date PELNI results become available.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
6.01      The scattered geography of Indonesia, the fact that about two-
thirds of the country's 130 million population are concentrated in the
small island of Java, and that most of the natural resources are located
in other under-populated islands, mean that shipping is of crucial im-
portance for economic development of Indonesia. Implementation of many of
the programs of Repelita II depends to a large extent on improved shipping
services which the proposed project is intended to help realize. The
transmigration of people from over-populated Java to other islands, improved
agriculture and development of agriculture-based industries in the outer
islands, and exchange of processed goods and raw materials between the more
developed Java and the other islands, all depend on shipping. In this
regard, providing adequate and reliable inter-island shipping services in
Indonesia is similar in importance to the maintaining of an adequate land
transport system in many other countries. Herein lies the basic justification
of the proposed investment in shipping.
B.   Traffic
(a) Freight Traffic
6.02      As projected in the Bank's First Shipping Project--appraisal re-
port, total inter-island cargo traffic has grown at 7% p.a. from 2.8 million
tons in 1969 to 3.6 million tons in 1973.  If traffic continued to grow at
7% p.a. it would reach 5.6 million tons in 1979.  The LTFD, however, has
forecast cargo traffic to grow about 15.5% p.a. for the 1974-79 period.
Total inter-island traffic in 1979 was therefore forecast by LTFD to reach
8.2 million tons, of which about 6.0 million tons would be handled by RLS
ships compared to 2.5 million tons in 1973. The LTFD forecast was based
on the assumption that the Government's plan for Repelita II would be fully
executed during the plan period. But there is now considerable uncertainty
as to whether the plan targets will be achieved. In view of this, the
LTFD traffic forecasts for the RLS may well be optimistic. On the other
hand, in light of the recent quickening pace of development of the Indonesian
econcmy, the past rate of growth of 7% p.a. could very well be surpassed
during the Repelita II period and it is likely that the actual rate of growth



- 29 -
of freight traffic to be realized would probably be somewhere between 10,'% and
151%, but perhaps closer to 10%. Projections based on alternative assumed
rates of growth are shown in Table 4.
(b) Passenger Traffic
6.03      In the immediate Post-World War II years, inter-island passenger
traffic was between 600,000 and 800,000 passengers a year, growing at an
average annual rate of perhaps 4%; it fell drastically to about 250,000
by 1965; and then grew to about 350,000 by 1970; but fell again to 310,000
in 1972 due to irregular and unreliable services (see Table 5).
6.04      The LTFD projected that passenger traffic would reach 976,000
in 1979, an 18% annual compound growth during the seven years between 1972
and 1979 (see Table 5). This is a very high rate of growth, but if ships
are available and reliable services are provided, it may be attained.
6.05      Additional passenger liner services are now planned only for the
Jakarta-Belawan service. On other routes mixed passenger/cargo vessels
are proposed. Passenger traffic does not, therefore, have an appreciable
influence on the total tonnage required in the project; it only determines
the number of ships that have to be equipped with passenger facilities.
C.   Shipping Capacity and Productivity
6.06      The proposed project is intended to improve the average produc-
tivity of the fleet through rehabilitation, and adding new and used ships.
Increased average productivity depends on scrapping old ships, increasing
the number of days a ship is in service, i.e., not under repair, reducing
port days, and on proper management and scheduling.
6.07      Average ship productivity in Indonesia, based on data provided
by INSA, shows a low figure of nine to ten cargo tons per dwt for 1972. Even
this low productivity level will rapidly decrease to the 1969-70 level of
four or five tons if no rehabilitation of the old ships takes place. The
LTFD estimated that if about 80 ships of the 1973 RLS fleet with less than
200 commission days a year were scrapped by 1979 and if 134 new ships hav-
ing over 300 days per year operations were added to the fleet by 1979, the
average productivity could increase to 17.7 tons per dwt.  This productivi-
ty level, however, could also be achieved if the load factor were to be
increased and the turn-around time shortened. These improvements depend
on maintaining a regular and reliable schedule and on improved ship main-
tenance and port operations and facilities. While the project will improve
regularity of shipping services, improvement of port operations and facili-
ties will take more time.
6.08      After rehabilitation, the number of service days per ship per
year would be considerably improved. New ships would be in operation for
about 330 days per year, and used and rehabilitated ships for at least
260 days per year. On this basis, the average productivity could reach,
aL least, about 15 tons per dwt.



- 30 -
6.09      On completion of the proposed project, the number and tonnage
of RLS ships would be as follows in 1979:
No. of Ships         Total Tonnage
Existing Fleet /a
(remaining in 1979)                     106                   140,200
New Ships Purchased                        51                    53,750
Used Ships Purchased                       55                    59,500
Total                           212                  253,450
/ac After scrapping about 70,000 dwt of obsolete tonnage and rehabilitating
about 54,500 dwt of useable ships.
6.10      Table 3 shows the shipping capacity required for each year be-
twveen 1973 and 1979 on various assumptions regarding traffic growth and
:tipping productivity increase. It is clear from the Table that the snip-
pizg tornage after the completion of the proposed project would be adequate
vo nandle the 1979 traffic volume either if the traffic grew only at 7%
03.a., and 15 tons/dwt productivity is attained, or if it grew at 10% with
aa asverage productivity of ,7.7 tons/dwt.  If these conditions are not
faet, addItional shipping capacity would be required before 1978. The
anount of additional tonnage needed by 1979 in excess of that provided
tunder the project is dependent entirely on the rate of traffic growth and
productivity improlrement. These factors must be closely monitored during
project execution, Because another shipping project would require at least
a year's preparation time, the basis for fleet planning should be set up as
soou as possible. Agreement on an early start on this project preparation
u'iork was reached during negotiations and funds for financing a study have
been included in the proposed loan (Annex 4).
I.  Economic Rate of Return on the Project
6.11      The estimated benefits of the nroject consist o. (i) reduced
ni? operating costs, (ii) increased snlp productivity, and (iii) increased
eco'aomic activity catered to by the additional shipping capacity.  Benefits
under (i) and (ii) are assumed to be realized by rehabilitation and the
purchase of used ships.  The tonnage of net ships to be purchased represents
additional capacity and their benefits would accrue in the form of increased
economic development shown on (iii) above. Since data with which to quantify
the economic development effects are not available, the net revenue
from ship operation based on the current tariffs are used as proxy for the
benefits of increased economic activity. Details of the estimates of benefits
will be found in Annex 9.
6.12      On the basis of a seven-year average economic life for the re-
habilitated ships, ten and 20-year econoimic life for used and new ships
respectively, the overall project would have a rate of return of about 18Z,
with used ships alone having a return of about 19%, and new ships about 15%.



- 31 -
Return on the rehabilitation part of the project is very high. The benefits
arising during the three-year project period alone are more than the total
cost of rehabilitation, which means that the return on this part of the
project is well over 100%.
6.13      The sensitivity of the calculated economic return was checked,
based on assumed variations in both costs and benefits. Since benefits
are estimated on a very conservative basis, it is unlikely that their vari-
ation would be large. On the cost side also, since the estimate is real-
istic, no wide variation is expected except for price rises due to infla-
tion. Inflationary price rises are likely to be offset by similar increases
on the benefit side since the benefits represent the savings in ship operating
costs and the increases in revenues. In view of the above, the possible
variations in costs and benefits are limited to 10%.  If the cost alone
increased by 10% with no change in the benefits, the project's economic
return would fall to about 15%; also if the benefits decreased by 10%
with no increase in the cost, the rate of return would be about 15%. If
the cost increased by 10% and the benefits decreased by 10%, the project's
return would be about 13%; in the unlikely event that costs increased by
20% while benefits fell by 10%, the project return would be a little over
11%.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached:
(a)  with the Government that:
(i)  it will adequately compensate PELNI, on a
basis satisfactory to PANN and BAPINDO, in the event
that PELNI would incur arrears to PANN or BAPINDO
as a result of operations carried out at Government
request (para 3.09 and 4.11);
(ii)  it will cause BKI's ship classification standards to
conform to those of an internationally recognized
classification society (para 3.15);
(iii)  a Financing Agreement satisfactory to the Bank will
be signed between the Government, PANN and BAPINDO to
specify: (a) the proposed lending terms and relending
terms, (b) that loans and equity v-ill be made available
to PANN in a regular and timely fashion related to
PANN's needs, and, (c), that about US$15.0 million
of resources will be made available for the project
from BAPINDO (para 4.11);



- 32 -
(iv)  a program to scrap 70.000 dwt of shipping by December 31,
1979 will be prepared by August 1976 and implemented in
relation to the acquisition and rehabilitation of project
ships (para 4.13);
(v)  a comprehensive maritime training program will be
carried out (para. 4.25);
(b)  with PANN that:
(i) auditors, legal counsel, and financial and techni-
cal advisers acceptable to the Bank will be retained
(para 3.M10);
(ii)  the content of lease and sales documents; its procure-
Tent procedures, and its "Policy Statement Memorandum"
wi1l be satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.11 and 4.17);
(iii)  it will hire an insurance executive, seek the most
economical fleet policies from national and inter-
national insurance brokers, and purchase "all risk"'
insurance onthe replacement cost of its ships (para
3, ;6);
'c). with PA1,N and BAPITDO that:
(i)  a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between PANN and
BAPINDO for BAPIN-0h to undertake appraisals of lessees
and Duyers of PZ'A7i ships will be concluded (para 3.10);
and
(ii)  copies of all appraisal reports and development agree-
ments with shipping en arprises will be forwarded to
the Bank (para 4.19).
'i D02   A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the financing
agreement, satisfaztory to the Bank, para ;>o01(a)(fii,i and the Project
!greement would be signed (para 4.06).
The project forms a suitable basis for a Banik loan of US$54.0
vlll3ion to the Government of Indonesia to be repaid over a period of 15
y7ears including three years of grace.
April 1976



ANNEX 1
Page  1
INDONES IA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Progress of Ship Rehabilitation Project (Credit 318-IND)
Introduction
The credit for US$8.5 million equivalent was signed on June 29,
1972 to finance a project consisting of:
(a)  a rehabilitation program to repair about 160,000 dwt
of Inter-Island and Regular Liner Service (RLS) shipping
(US$7.0 million);
(b)  provision of technical assistance for three shipyards
(US$1.5 million); and
(c)  provision, via UNIDF and blatera-'l aid, of technical
asisistance for 'the. establish-ment of a Naritime Credit
Department in the State Developmenc Baank (BAPINDO), f'r
a fong-term  fleet developiment studv, and for technical
assistance to the Indonesian ship zlassif'cation or-ani-
zatio,n and to thie Indonesian National Sh4powners Associa-
ti,on (INSA)
T],4R project is  progrSslcg slowlj;, but sli funds for sL,p rehabili-
tacton art. exe cte    Lbte  o tite; b-y t-e enid of ?9,76 or early l 97    T he
Bank h'Pas agreed to the request of z.he C >  . e rnment tc exterd t ne clsing d a t e
u.sntii SepteMber 30, 1977, All of  lhe crfi ginal cosnltant Service contracts
(,for shipyard assistance, advisory  to T'S3, an. ad visors to BAP3INDWI, which
fiaanced 'the rehab  fl.tanLoz) have t:pi red   Onl'y Lhe last noted was extended
to February 1976.  Thi'ze services wV,Iz. xe extended -until Febrsary 1978
under the Proposed second shipping loan.
iio        BAPINDO has cortiitted about 78t of  e  credit.  Delays in Bank
disbu-, sements are attrLbutable to.-:o 'leng4phy repair time, delays in scheduling
repairs, and slowness in applying for rd imbursement.  Steps are being taken
to reduce these delays. Due to the long tiTWe elapse. between initiating
ship surveys in early 1971 and commencement of lending in mid-1973, the poor
quality of some of these surveys, cessation of normal repairs and consequent



ANNEX 1
Page 2
further deterioration in the ships after the initial surveys, lack of en-
foreemient of rules by Goverfnment and the resulting sharp cost increases,
the available funds will repair only about half of the tonnage originally
estimated to be repaired under the rehabilitation program.
Progress of the Pr_iSct
1.         The project which, in addition to funds rrom Credit 318 uses funds
zricO an Industrial Credit (Credit 310-IND) is progressing slowly.  A sumary
of the situation as of December 27, 1975 is as follows:
Cr. 310           Cr. 318        Total
V.N ships rehabi.)Jttated or io progress           13              29            42
No4 to be rehabu1d.1tated by '9/30/77 /a           -               13            13
f,  I    0I 930/ 7 7                              13               42            55
''   Je-waeight toons                     24,877           67,264        92,141
riseec Costs, eszi.r.ated ($000)           2.913           11,038        13,951
-"ND)  LGoans, e stimated (N0O)             2,201            9,447        11,648
IDA Reinil se:me-t-1t expected ($000)         1,131             7,051        8,202
e I  e a, wc > it to  (UI S )
Jfect Casts, estinated                    1'17.10           164.10        151.41
i -YINf)') Toan, esa"cated                    88 48           140.45        126.41
t sa Reir0bursement, expected                446.27            104.83        89.02
Aprjaisal Report astimates
i.O T wrhins                                                                    142
Diea&  eight tornnage                                                      168,000
Project costs ($000)                                                         11,400
.ost per deadweight ton                                                      67.86
/a   Including US$897,000 of projects finhncced by BAPINDO's own funds.
2,         A number of ships which were li cnsed in the RLS at the time of
apppraisal and wnhch subsequently Lad becn :emporarily licensed for use on
0onean routes, were rehabilitated unde-r Credit 310, This was due to the
wording of the Lce-n Agreement for Credit 318 which  Unimted lerding to
licensed RLS inter-island ships.  For purposes of assessing the rehabiicitation
scheme, those ships rehabilita.;e under CreS`.z 310 should be included in the
totals.  There were 10 ships ir this categet-&-  total'ling 21,7/..  The repair
of these ships involved sub-prcjects of US$1 9 million including BAPINPJO
loans of US$1.5 million.  IDA reimburs.m-nents of US$1.2 i1n,.lion fc-r tcaese
projects hnas beern made under Credit 310.  in addition, BAPINDO his loaned
about US5200,000 of its own funds for ship rzs?airs for three ships  3
durt) ) .



ANNEX I
Page 3
3.        Thus, the total ship rehabilitation program will eventually pro-
bably involve 55 ships of 92,141 dwt; repairs of US$13.95 million; BAPINDO
loans of US$11.6 million; and IDA reimbursement, both already received and
expected, of US$8.2 million. All of these expenditures are likely to be
committed by the end of 1976 or early in 1977.
4.        While IDA disbursement approvals at February 29, 1976 of US$5.3
million (US$4.2 million under Credit 318 plus US$1.1 million under Credit
310) are lower than the estimate during appraisal - US$8.4 million as of
December 31, 1975 - the shortfall is due to (a) substantial time lags resulting
from the finalizing of shipyard accounts which the shipowners do not want to
accept, or pay for, until presented and (b) disputes arising after presentation
in which more time is lost while a final account is developed. As some (in
most cases, much) work is added and done after the original repair estimate
and contract has been made, such disputes are inevitable. In an attempt to
improve the pace of disbursements, BAPINDO has now insisted on progress
payments being made under ship-repair contracts. Heretofore, the IDA pro-
hibition against retroactive finance has weighed against BAPINDO payment
of all or part of an account, in case unexpected delays were to stretch out
the repair period and imperil further reimbursement by IDA. Contracts are
now to be signed in advance of repairs which authorize up to 50% of costs
to be reimbursed prior to completion. This will speed disbursements. The
Association has agreed to waive the 90-day rule in such cases. As of mid-
December, 1975 two such contracts have been signed.
5.        Nevertheless, for inter-island ship rehabiiitation the two Credits
taken together are being utilized financially about as was expected for
Credit 318. Measured against expectations of physical achievement, the
Credit will have accomplished less. At the end of 1975, 27% of the expected
number and 41% of the expected ttonnage of ships have been rehabilitated
with total project costs of US$8.8 million as of that date. By the completion
of the project on September 30, 1977, 39% of the expected number of ships
and about 55% of the expected tonnage could be rehabilitated by the US$13.95
million of projects noted in para 3. The eventual total dollar value of
repairs was expected to be US$11.4 million at the time of appraisal. This
was estimated to result in the repair of 142 ships totaling 168,000 dwt.
Sharp cost increases - from an estimated US$67.86 per dwt to an average of
US$151.40 per dwt - are accounted for by price changes, original under
estimates of the work, and rapid deterioration of ships because of poor
maintenance in the two-year period from the original surveys until the
actual work was started. It is difficult to apportion the increased cost
between these items, but a reasonable estimate of the US$83.54 per dwt
difference (123% increase on original estimate) is as follows:
Accounted for by:
(i)  Original physical contingency                        5%
(ii) Added physical contingency reflecting poor
original survey                                17%



ANNEX I
Page 4
(iii)  Original price contingency                           15%
(iv)  Added price contingency (1971-74)                    50%
(v) Increased cost of deterioration and poor
maintenance                                    36%
Weighted Average Increase          123%
6.        Many of 142 ships originally surveyed have been scrapped, many
are no longer in the RLS (though they may be sailing), and some were
repaired to a lower standard. A number of applications, made prior to
June 30, 1973 deadline (which had to be met if access to an interest rate
of 9-1/4% was to be protected) were withdrawn after mid-1973.  Uncertainties
following the January 15, 1974 riots in Jakarta also caused some further
withdrawals. The Credit was slow in being utilized by the privat:e sector,
but was vigorously pursued by t:he state shipping company. As of December,
1975 BAPINDO had committed loans to nine borrawers for a total of US$8.98
million.
7.        In early 1973, BAPINDO estimated that it would be feasible to
rehabilitate only 89 of the original 142 ships surveyed in 1971. Of the 89,
32 have been committed under Credit 318 and 7 under Credit 310, and 6 have
been repaired by BAPINDO funds. A further 9 await final decision, 21 were
withdrawn, and 14 were rejected. The balance, plus some of the ships noted
previously as withdrawn or rejected, have either been scrapped or are still
sailing with special dispensation from laws which restrict their operation
if not classified by the Indonesian ship classification society, Biro
Klassifikasi Indonesia (BKI).
8.        Four consultant contracts, each of 2 years duration have been
corapleted. Two of these involved technical assistance to three shipyards
and resulted in some substantial improvement in the quantity and quality
of work undertaken. Two of the shipyards in question are the subject of
joint venture negotiations with a foreign shipyard. Another consultant
contract involved UNDP-finance and Bank executed technical assistance to
INSA.  This was less successful becausL of the reluctance of shipowners'
to avail themselves of the services provided.
9.        A fourth consultant contract for advisory services rendered to the
state bank, BAPINDO was extended for a third year and expired at the end of
1975. This contract for services of a financial and technical adviser was
financed by UNDP and was once more extended to February 1976. It has been
a successful and important part of the project. The contract for two
ad.visors has been further extended to February 1978 as part of the proposed
lcpan and will assist in further rehabilitation to be undertaken during 1976
and 1977.
10.       Credit 318 is expected to be committed by the end of 1976, or early
1977, unless PELNI does not borrow from BAPINDO to rehabilitate five eligible
ships with an estimated repair cost of US$1.465 million, now under consider-
ation. Additional ships will be rehabilitated under the proposed second
shipping loan.
April 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Transport Planning and Non-Maritime
Transport Activities in Indonesia
The Transport Sector
General
1.        The Indonesian transport system depends chiefly upon inter-island
marine services as well as upon highways and railways. The marine services
comprise Regular Liner Service (RLS) between specified ports as well as
unscheduled (tramping) services and ocean going shipping. Land transport
is well developed in Java with an extensive railway and highway network,
whereas in Sumatera railways have only been developed in some parts, and
the road network provides the basic links between principal cities. On
the other islands, except for a small railway on Madura, facilities are
limited to a few roads in areas around ports and towns. Air transport
volume is still small but has increased rapidly in the last few years.
2.        GDP was the equivalent of about US$16.3 billion in 1973 or about
US$130 per capita. The economy grew during the First Five-Year Plan and in
1975 at over 7% p.a. The Second Five-Year Plan projects continuation of the
growth pattern from the previous plan period but with greater emphasis on
industrial expansion, particularly in basic industry; transport is projected
to grow at the rate of 10% p.a. With the increase in oil prices, substantial
new resources have become available to the Government and have already been
committed to expanding investment. Indonesia's export earnings are expected
to rise further from US$4.4 billion in 1974 to US$11.4 billion in 1980 and
to provide the necessary foreign exchange and savings for additional increases
in the rate of investment. The Government is also stressing the balanced
development of all regions in Indonesia and the opening up of remote areas.
All the foregoing trends will place large new demands on the transport system
and may well require transport to be expanded in excess of the projected 10%
p.a. if the demands are to be met.
3.        The Government's strategy as set forth in the Second Five Year Plan
(Repelita II) is to continue the rehabilitation program for infrastructure
including the gradual upgrading of the country's existing transport facilities.
This will be supplemented by the provision of new infrastructure for (i) ex-
ploitation of newly discovered resources, (ii) support of the Government's
regional policies and (iii) improvement of rural transport infrastructure.
4.        The contribution of transport to GDP virtually stagnated for most
of the 1960's but grew at nearly 11% p.a. in constant prices over the First
Plan period as the economy recovered. The Government's policy in the First



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Five-Year Plan emphasized rehabilitation of transport facilities and the
condition of infrastructure and the transport fleet has improved markedly
as a result. In addition, some fleet expansion took place, particularly in
road transport and aviation. The primary aim of the Government's Second
Five-Year Plan in the transport sector is to create substantial capacity
increases both by additional investment and by improved productivity, through
completion of unfinished rehabilitation work and further strengthening of
sectoral institutions and organizations.
5.        As a result of its enlarged oil income, the Government has expanded
expenditures under the 1974-75 and 1975-76 development budgets over the
levels projected in the Second Plan documents. The increase for transport
is almost the same as for the budget as a whole and, other than differential
acceleration of expenditures in some transport activities, the Government
has not indicated a shift in its sectoral strategy. Over the Second Plan
period, investments for transport in the public sector (assuming continuation
of development expenditures at increased levels) and by the private sector
are estimated at about Rp 1,800 billion (US$4.3 billion, in 1973 prices)
roughly 17% of total investments; about 56% of this will flow through the
public sector under various central and local governments' development bud-
gets with the remainder being financed privately, particularly for the
purchase of road and other transport vehicles. While investment projections
were based on very limited data, particularly regarding local government
expenditures, the proportion devoted to transport falls within the range
most frequently observed in similar economies.
Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
6.        Responsibility for planning and policy formulation in the transport
sector is divided at the national level between two departments, Department of
Public Works (DPW) for roads, and the Department of Transport, Communications
and Tourism (DOC) for other modes. Investment proposals are formulated at the
modal level in these departments and then submitted by them to the National
Planning Council (BAPPENAS) for review. Project proposals, which normally
include cost-benefit analyses, are then individually reviewed and approved by
the Ministry of Finance. Project cost-benefit analyses are frequently made by
consultants and thus have not represented an overwhelming burden on the
limited number of Indonesian transport specialists. Nevertheless, as the
number and complexity of analyses is increasing, the Government intends to
employ one or two expatriate experts financed under an IDA Technical Assistance
Credit (275-IND) to help the MOC in reviewing investment proposals from its
constituent agencies.
7.        Modal planning is hindered by the lack of trained staff and by the
limited and irregular flow of data. Nevertheless, planning of highways in
DGH has been greatly strengthened in recent years with the assistance of the
HPAT and will receive significant assistance under the proposed loan. Rail-
way planning will be improved under the current Bank loan for the railways,
and national ports planning, which is urgently needed to coordinate the
ports with each other and with shipping and land transport, will be given
special attention in the proposed Bank loan for the port of Jakarta (para



ANNEX 2
Page 3
1.04 and Annex 1). The Government has initiated training programs for trans-
port planning staff and is pursuing several means to improve the availability
of information, among them the provision of another expert financed from
Technical Assistance Credit 275-IND to work with DOC on data problems. The
training of Indonesian staff as well as improvements in modal planning and
data operation will take time and it will be some years before these essen-
tial prerequisites to a national transport plan and to improved transport
coordination will become available.
8.        The Government wields considerable influence over the operation
of the transport system, not only through provision of infrastructure and
ownership of important transport enterprises in all modes but through rate
setting and other regulatory activities. While it has not formulated an
explicit transport policy, the Government has identified areas requiring
special attention, particularly financial objectives and control of public
sector transport firms and pricing policy. At present, accounting systems
vary widely among sectoral enterprises and means are not available to
compare financial performance or to set standards. The Government's deci-
sion on rates must frequently be made without analysis of costs, demand
factors or the effect on competing modes. Two experts, financed from
Technical Assistance Credit 275-IND, are now advising DOC in these areas
with the aim of making the Government's activities more consistent and
effective, improving the return on its investments in the sector and ensur-
ing that it considers all relevant economic factors in transport pricing.
Improved information is also considered vital to better sector management
and will be aided by the measures described in para 2.09.
Road Transport
9.        The extra-urban public highway network totals 86,264 km.  The roads
are classified as "national" (10,628 km), "provincial" (24,466 km) and "dis-
trict" (kabupaten) (51,170 km), indicating their relative importance and
the basis for defining administrative, financial and executive procedures
associated with construction and maintenance. In addition to the public
highway network, agricultural estates and oil companies construct and main-
tain their own roads. Tables 1 and 2 show the public network by classifica-
tion and by surface type.
10.       In 1974, registered four-wheel vehicles (excluding military and
diplomatic) totalled about 535,000 of which 338,000 were cars, 166,000
trucks and 31,000 buses (Tables 5 and 6). The number of vehicles actually
in use is considerably less; on the basis of 1972 inspection records, only
about two-thirds of trucks and buses registered were then on the road.
The rapid expansion of vehicle registrations over the last five years (by
nearly 70%) has been reflected in a significant reduction of the average
vehicle age which dropped from 12.1 years in 1969 to 10.6 years in 1972.
Most trucks still have only two axles but recent additions to the fleet
typically have somewhat higher carrying capacities than the older vehicles
(previously about 3.5 m tons, now 4 to 5 m tons).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Railways
11.       Railways are confined (with one minor exception in Madura) to
two islands: about 4,700 km on Java and 2,000 km on Sumatera. The rail-
ways, which were built during the 70 years prior to World War II to more
primary commodities to foreign markets, suffered with declining exports
in the 1950's and 1960's and, as with most public infrastructure in
Indonesia, they were allowed to deteriorate. Limited rehabilitation
took place during the First Five-Year Plan and freight traffic recovered
significantly, at about 7% p.a. in m ton-km, while passenger traffic
after many years of decline is starting to show an upward trend. Due
to long neglect in replacing of overage assets and poor maintenance
facilities, railway operations have remained deficient.
12.       With better performance, the railway could continue to make an
important contribution to the economy, especially along high density
freight corridors in Java and on certain sections of the Sumatera railway
network and in moving the growing volumes of industrial bulk commodities.
Accordingly, the railway has formulated a comprehensive program of modern-
ization and rehabilitation coupled with technical assistance which formed
the basis of a Bank Railway Project (Loan 1005-IND), in June 1974, and is
presently being implemented. The proposed action program, which has
recently started, includes acquisition of locomotives and rolling stock,
improvement and modernization of maintenance of assets, reorganization
of management, further phased staff reduction and modernization of account-
ing. Important performance targets have also been agreed: by 1979-80,
the railway is to cover all operating costs including depreciation and earn
a small return on investment (1-1/4%); average net train loads are expected
to be increased in Java from 110 m tons in 1973 to 162 in 1979 and car
turn-around time reduced from 8.3 to 7.3 days.
Inland Waterways
13.       Commercial river transport extends to 10,000 km of navigable
waterways. The most important river traffic is logs. Fourteen rivers in
Kalimantan and Sumatera totalling 4,000 km were recently studied by con-
sultants, Research and Development (Belgium), and the Government is in-
stalling better navigational aids but no major improvement works are
contemplated. The Government is also planning to expand "pioneer" services
by river craft in some of the remote regions.
Pipelines
14.       Pipelines are under the control of the state-owned oil company,
Pertamina. A product pipeline from Cilacap to Jogjakarta is already in
use; another line from Cilacap to Bandung is presently under construction;
when open it will divert significant amounts of petroleum products from
the railway. A gas gathering pipeline system was financed by IDA in 1972
in Sumatera to supply gas for the PUSRI II fertilizer plant (Credit 193-IND)



ANNEX 2
Page 5
and will be extended to supply PUSRI III and PUSRI IV under Bank Loan
1089-IND. Another gas line is under construction in Java to supply
gas for the proposed West Java fertilizer plant at Jatibarang and a steel
plant near Merak.
Aviation
15.       In 1972 about 95% of domestic civil air traffic movement in
Indonesia passed through 27 airports (about one-third of these movements
through Jakarta) and recent improvements were concentrated in these fa-
cilities to permit use by modern aircraft which could handle the rapid rise
in traffic most efficiently. As a result, 19 airports can now accept jets
as against only 3 at the start of the First Plan. While landing fields
have been improved, substantial deficiencies persist in aeronautic communi-
cations, navigational aids and air traffic control. In line with the rapid
rise in traffic (nearly three times between 1968-1972), the capacity of the
civil aviation fleet has been expanded and the types of aircraft diversified.
The number of planes has, however, been reduced with the replacement of low
capacity older aircraft by more efficient equipment. Most of the needs in
the aviation subsector are for equipment for which bilateral financing is
likely to be available. The Government is studying the construction of a
new international airport for Jakarta and is presently reviewing a report
on this subject by consultants, Aviation Planning Services (Canada). During
the Second Plan, the Government also intends to promote the construction of
landing fields in the remote districts which will be provided with a sub-
sidized service by low capacity aircraft.
April 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Summary of Consultants' Analysis of Existing Regular Liner
Service Fleet and of Fleet Expansion Alternatives
Introduction
1.        Consultants (Maritime Research Centre, Netherlands) retained by
the Government and financed by Netherlands aid, made a study of the inter-
island and Regular Liner Service (RLS) fleets in connection with the Long
Term Fleet Development Study (LTFD). A sum-ary of their analysis and
proposals for provision of transport services over the period 1975 to 1979
is given below. Indicative forecasts were then made up to 1990.
Aging of the 1973 Fleet
2.        There were about 324 ships registered in the inter-island fleet
in 1973, of which 187 were licensed to operate in the RLS. For analytical
purposes, and to assist in making projections based on scrapping, trade
forecasts and ages of ships, the Consultants studied changes in the inter-
island cargo fleet between 1972 and 1973, (Attachment 1) because vessels
could be shifted among the various sections of the fleet according to the
licensing process. Licensing is related to seasonal needs for shipping;
to the requirements of the Government for meeting needs in out-ports not
normally served regularly; and to the ebb and flow of trade to nearby
countries, for which trade some of the inter-island fleet is suitable.
3.        The Consultants carried out detailed studies of the inter-island
fleet structure in the base year 1973 in order to gain an insight into
what might be the attrition to 1979, the first forecast year, assuming
certain scrapping. The 1979 fleet was then forecast using replacement for
scrapped ships and with certain assumptions concerning ship productivity
and cargo availability, and routes.
4.        The details of the 1973 fleet are given in Attachments 1 and 2.
In broad outline the tonnage and age structure of the RLS fleet of 187
ships in 1973 was:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
dwt                    Year of Build (Age)
Under 600        33%      prior to 1955 (+20)         35%
600 - 1,000      31%      1955 - 1964 (11-20)         53%
1,000 - 2,000      24%      after 1964 (0-10)           12%
Over 2,000       12%
100%                                 100%
The aging of this fleet to 1979, assuming no scrapping, would mean that
many ships would be over 25 years of age by that date. As the useful and
economic life of ships in Indonesia is currently estimated to be under 20
years, large numbers would have to be scrapped. Of the 324 ships in the
1973 inter-island fleet, 118 or 36% would be over 25 years old in 1979.
Figures for the RLS section are similar, but by deadweight classes they
vary substantially. While no ships of 3,000 to 4,000 dwt would be over
25 years old in 1979, 50% of the 1,600 to 2,000 dwt class, 52% of the 400
to 800 dwt class, and 41% of the 1,200 to 1,600 dwt class would be in that
category.
Rehabilitation
5.        The Consultants studied the possibilities for further rehabilita-
tion of ships in the 1973 fleet and concluded that only 10 ships, in add'tion
to the 53 then reported by BAPINDO likely to be rehabilitated under the
First Shipping Credit, would be rehabilitated by the end of 1979. This
estimate was based mainly on age but also on cost estimates made early in
1973. Since then, with sharp increases in the cost of new and used ships,
rehabilitation became economically attractive even at costs substantially
in excess of the current average cost of US$146/dwt. This is shown in the
calculations below which have been made by Bank staff.
Assumed Lease Costs (Capital Only)
Rehabilitated       Used               New
Ships           Ships             Ships
Cost per dwt                        $200            $700               $1,800
Lease Terms                     5 yr. at 15%    10 yr. at 15%   16 yr. at 15%
Annual Cost, dwt                    $ 59.60         $139.30            $302.22
Add Other Costs:
(i) Costs of non-standardized
ships (+15%)             $ 68.54         $160.19              -
(ii) Use of less Productive
Ships (+6%)                 72.65          169.80
Total Cost Ratio                         1              2.3               4.1



ANNEX 3
Page 3
6.        Even assuming a greater penalty in costs than allowed for in the
above figures, the attractiveness of rehabilitation and the high cost of
new ships is evident. Of the 1973 fleet of 187 shiLps, 81 units were found
to be in good condition, 45 in barely acceptable condition, and 61 in poor
condition. As deterioration will continue among the non-rehabilitated ships
(unless the operators substantially alter their maintenance procedures),
a further decline in the availability of the fleet for operations is implied.
Unless rehabilitation increases, scrapping of many more than half of the
118 ships to be over 25 years of age in 1979 is likely.
Commission Days
7.        The Consultants, working with indicative 1972 data, concluded
that only 35% of the fleet operated more than 300 commission days per year;
t8% of the fleet achieved between 200 and 300 commission days; and 45% had
less than 200 days per year. Adjusting the available data to show commission
days according to age of ships in 1973 revealed that the proportions had
shifted so that 41% had over 300 days and 40% had under 200 days. This
Lfnprovement was a short-term result of the rehabilitation program and re-
f'lected the increased traffic available which induced ship owners to repair
their ships and to operate them more efficiently.
1973 Fleet Capability in 1979
8.        Consultants assumed that rehabilitated ships could operate for
over 300 days per year and that proper maintenance would take place after
rehabilitation as a result of loan agreements calling for annual dry docking.
It was further assumed that 10% of the old ships with good performance would
survive by the end of the seventies, while 20% would have reduced perform-
ance (from 200 to 300 days p.a.). The balance (70%), would show poor per-
formance of under 200 days per year. Finally, they assumed that half of
the ships built from 1955 to 1965 would show a lower technical availability
by the end of the decade than currer':ly.
9.        Available records and estimates were then used to calculate probable
commission days according to size class. This analysis indicated that about
80 RLS ships, all likely to have under 200 commission days per year, should
be scrapped in the 1973 to 1979 period.
10.       Seventy-two of the 80 ships proposed to be scrapped were built
prior to 1955, 8 were built between 1955 and 1964. A scrapping program
totalling 70,600 dwt was proposed for 1975-1979, with from 12,000 to 20,000
dwt scrapped per year. It was also clear that, without further rehabilita-
tion, the efficiency of the 1979 fleet would not be sufficient to meet the
productivity levels indicated to be required in order to carry the forecast
cargos available. To the extent, then, that further rehabilitation is not
carried out, more new ships will be needed to provide for the forecast cargo
availability.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       These assumptions led to changes in the 1973 RLS fleet forecast
to be available in 1979, as shown below:
Number of Ships Forecast to be
Available Each Year             To Be
1973-75   1976   1977   1978   1979   Scrapped/a
Under 400               26        21      16     11       5      21
400 - 1,000             86        82      72     61      48      38
1,000 - 2,000             48        44     40      36      31      17
Over  2,000             27        26      24     22      22       5
187      173    152    130    106         81
/a     Consultant's Data
There will be only 106 ships, or 57% of the 1973 fleet available for opera-
tions in 1979. Even this number will not be available unless the rehabilita-
tion and repair of ships is continued.
Replacement and Expansion
12.       In order to obtain the number of ships to be required in 1979,
Consultants projected the yearly increase in traffic from 1973 to the
forecast 1979 level. Productivity of the RLS fleet in cargo tons carried
per deadweight ton was 12.2 in 1973, far below the levels obtainable with
proper operations but significantly above the 9.0 tons/dwt recorded in
1972. Forecasts of yearly productivity to reach a target of 17.7 tons/dwt
were made by the Consultants based on a variety of factors including esti-
mates of unloading and loading efficiency to be attained in the ports.
These forecasts were used to estimate the yearly shipping tonnage required
each year as shown below. A building program was derived from this:
Year            1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Productivity
(tons/dwt)         12.0   12.5   13.3   14.7   16.1   17.1   17.7
Cargo Available
(million tons)      2.5    2.9    3.3    3.9    4.5    5.2    6.0
Shipping Needs
(000 dwt)         210    232    250    263    276    300    337
13.       Consultants then studied two processes by which the 1979 fleet
could be expanded to meet forecast requirements.  One process involved
adding only new ships, the other involved adding a mix of new and used



ANNEX 3
Page 5
ships. These estimates are given below and include some small ships which
would be phased out of the RLS though they are currently sailing in that
fleet.
1979 FLEET FORECAST
Alternative I                Alternative II
Remain-  Adding   RLS   Adding  Adding  Remains   RLS
ing 1973  New    Fleet   New       Used      1973   Fleet
Ships   Ships   1979   Ships   Ships    Ships   1979
Under 400 dwt           5       25      30       25      -         5       30
400 - 1,000          48      49       97       32      26       48      106
1,000 - 2,000          31      72      103      45       30       31      106
Over 2,000             22       13      35       13      -        22        35
106     159      165     115       56     106       277
Less Small
Ships /a              5       25      30       25                        25
MXajor RLS Types      101      134     235       90      56      106       252
Ia   These ships, while sometimes now used in the RLS would not be so used
after 1979.
14.       Addition of 56 secondhand ships of the 700 and 1,500 dwt classes
from among ships built prior to 1965 was proposed.  The fleet including used
ships was assumed to have slightly less productivity so that a total of 252
ships rather than 235 ships of the major RLS classes were considered to be
necessary. Of the ships to be added, 21 of the under 1,000 dwt, 44 of the
1,000 to 2,000 dwt class, and 10 of the over 2,000 dwt class were judged to
require passenger accommodations.
j5.       Thus the recommendations for shipping until 1979 were for fleet
expansion and replacement via:
(a) Used and New Ships
26 used ships of 700 dwt                        18,200 dwt
30 used ships of 1500 dwt                       45,000 dwt
63,200 dwt
90 new ships of 1400 dwt average size          126,000 dwt
(b) New Ships
49 ships of 945 dwt                             46,305 dwt
72 ships of 1650 dwt                           118,800 dwt
13 ships of 2350 dwt                            30,550 dwt
195,655 dwt



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Long Range Requirement
16.       Based estimates of 21.6 million tons per year traffic and ship
productivity in 1990 of 25 tons/dwt, the Consultants estimated that, after
allowance for scrapping, the following number of new ships would be
required between 1979 and 1990.
125 ships of 945 dwt                          118,125 dwt
212 ships of 1650 dwt                         349,800 dwt
149 ships of 2350 dwt                         350,150 dwt
818,075 dwt
17.       Investment in ports, excluding dredging and beaconage, would be
required at a level of about Rp. 27.0 billion per year to 1990 in order to
accomplish the hanlding of 25 tons per dwt of shipping, the Consultants
estimated.
April 1976



INWjNES'-A
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Age and Deadweight of Inter->sland  Fleet as of lb June 1973
(OOO'e of Tons)
Deadweight           1950     1950-1954  1955-1959  1960-1964  1965-1969  1970-1971  unknown                 total
Tons
400                  7          7           9         16          10          7          10                 66
hoo-600                9         17           4         15           2          1           1                 49
6oo-800                6         20          17          2           5                      4                 54
800-1000               1          3           4         17           1                                        29
1000-1200              4          1           3          6           1                      2                 17
1200-1400              2          3           3         11                                  1                 20
14oo0-1600             1          2           1          3           1                                         8
1600-1800                                     6          1           2                      1                 10
1800-2000             11          2           2                                                               15
2000-2500                                     9         14                                                    23
2500-3000              3          2           3          1                                                     9
3000-3500              3          5                      1                                                     9
3500-4000              4                                 1                                                     5
4000                 2          1           3          1                                  1                  8
unknown                2                                                                                       2
total                 55         63          64         89          25          8          20                32h
Source:  List of Inter-island Shipping Companies and their Fleet (activities 1972-1973); issued by the
Direktorat Lalu Lintas Dan Angkutan Laut; June 14th 1973.
Apri- La



INDONESIA
APPRALISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Age and Deadweight of Ligenmed RLS Fleet as of 114 June 19273
(Number of Ships)
prior to
Deadweight    1950           '50 - '54      '55   '59      '60 - '64      '65 - '69      '70 - '71      unknown       total
Tons       72    73       72    73       72    73        72    73      72    73        72    73      72   73      72   73
400        2      -       6      4       8      7      11    10         4     5        5     5       3    1      39   32
4o0-600         6     4       16    12        2     2       12     8        2     2        1     1                   39   29
600-8oo         5     5       17    14       16    10        3     3        3      4                          2      44   38
800-1000                       2     2        4     3       15    13        3     2                                  24   20
1000-1200       3     3        1     1        3     2        5     4                                                 12   10
1200-1400       2     2        3     2        1     1       10     6                                                 16   11
1o00-1600       1     1        2     2        1              3     2        1     1                                   8    6
1600-1800                            1        6     5        1     1              1                                   7    8
1800-2000      11     8        2              2     2                                                                15   11
2000-2500                                    10     8        8     7                                                 18   15
2500-3000       3     2        1     1        1     3        1                                                        6    5
3000-3500                      4              0              1                                                        5
3500-4000       3                                            1                                                        4
4000      2              1      1                             1                                                  3    2    C
urknown
total          38    25       55    40       54    43       71    55       13    15        6      6      3    3    240 187
Source:  List of Inter-island Shipping Companies and their Fleet (activities 1972-1973); issued by the
Direktorat Lalu Lintas Dan Angkutan Laut; June 14th 1973.
.pri-L .L970



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program and
Main Points to be Included in Consultants'
Terms of Reference
1.        There are twenty technical assistance projects related to the
shipping project. Of these, five, costing US$705,000 equivalent, are
now financed by German, Japanese and Netherlands bilateral aid for periods
of up to two years. Seven technical assistance projects with an estimated
total cost of US$2,424,000 equivalent will be financed by the Norwegian
Agency for International Aid (NORAD). One of these seven (US$510,000
equivalent) is the provision of funds to extend the current German pro-
jects of assistance to Biro Klassifikasi Indonesia (BKI) should continued
German aid not be available after July 1976. Two projects (US$414,000
equivalent) are based on UNDP projects which were in an advanced stage
of negotiation prior to the reduction of UNDP funds.
2.        The proposed Bank loan will finance the balance of eight pro-
jects with an estimated cost of US$4,046,000 equivalent. One of the pro-
jects (US$245,000 equivalent) replaces UNDP financing for a project for which
funding has expired. Another project (US$560,000 equivalent) provides for
continuing two projects now financed by Netherlands bilateral aid, should that
aid not be available after the planned expiry dates in March 1977.
3.        Thus a total of US$6,470,000 of technical assistance is directly
related to and is included in the project finance. Of this 37% (US$2,424,000
equivalent) will be supplied by NORAD and the Government, and 63% (US$4,046,000
equivalent) by the Bank and the Government.
4.        NORAD and the Government agreed with the Bank that all terms of
reference for experts NORAD will finance will be discussed and agreed with
the Bank. NORAD will also supply information to the Bank on the training
programs to be financed by Norway. The Bank has received assurances from the
Netherlands that the Directie Internationale Technische Hulp (DTH) would be
willing to act as a contractor in extending the two projects referred to
in para 2 above.
(a) On-going Projects
5.        The Federal Republic of Germany has extended its technical
assistance by consultants, Germanischer Lloyd (GL) to BKI until July 1976.
6.        Japanese shipping advisors to SEACOM and crew training and
communications advisory services have been arranged until 1978.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
7.        Netherlands advisory teams for management assistance to PELNI
(72 man-months) and for planning services to SEACOM (72 man-months)
expire in Mlarch 1977 (para 2, above).
(b) New Projects
8.        New technical assistance projects are required for assistance
to PANN; for training marine officers and engineers and shipyard workers;
for a revision of maritime regulations; for a management consultant
review of PELNI; for additional maintenance and training services; and
for economic and planning studies. These are described below and are sum-
marized in Attachment I to this Annex.
9.        PANN will require assistance in procurement and supervision of
new ship construction, in organizing the financial arrangement with lessees,
and in assessing prospective charterers of ships it acquires. It will
require assistance with the procurement of used ships which may be located,
and must be inspected, in widely spread geographical areas at unpredictable
times. Consultant naval architects/surveyors, legal counsel, and resident
financial and technical advisors will be retained under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank to provide local and overseas advisory services
and liaison in Indonesia,, particularly for the procurement of used ships.
Ninety-two man months of such services will be financed by NORAD. Financial
services and advice to PANN would be rendered by BAPINDO on a mutually agreed
basis satisfactory to the Bank. PANN, with the agreement of the Bank, would
also retain shipbrokers to be its exclusive representatives in soliciting
offers for the sale to PANN of used ships. The two resident advisors for
finance and technical matters would be appointed with the agreement of the
Bank using terms of reference approved by the Bank. NORAD will finance 48 man
months of these services.
10.       Training Assistance, both in the form of equipment and instruction,
is essential to improve the quality and increase the number of officers and
engineers. The latter have the main responsibility for maintenance, which is
poorly done in Indonesia. The program is based on an existing proposal
developed over the past few years with some bilateral assistance, to double
the output of maritime establishments to 400 persons per year within five
years. UNDP had been asked by the Government to fund the program and a pro-
ject document for an initial survey of requirements had been agreed. The
Inter-governmental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO) had been design-
ated as executing agency. Due to the shortage of UNDP funds this project was
deferred and the Government asked the Bank to include funds in the proposed
loan for this project. This has been done and, due to the unique circumstances
and the experience of IMCO, the Bank has agreed to IMCO carrying out the train-
project, subject to the Bank's agreement on terms of reference and the list of
ing equipment required. IMCO would procure the agreed supplies and equipment
under procedures contained in the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement," as
agent for the Government, and the Bank would disburse to suppliers directly.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
11.       A shipyard training center, the first stage of which is to be
financed by NORAD, will be surveyed and organized in Indonesia in
connection with the local ship construction program.
12.       Revision of Indonesian maritime regulations:  These regulations,
currently applicable to inter-island shipping, are out-of-date and are
based on 1935 Netherlands regulations. A revision is overdue and the
prospect of increased shipbuilding and of ship acquisitions resulting
from the Government's maritime expansion plans, makes such a revision
urgent. Technical assistance for an expert for about 18 months is re-
quired for producing a draft of revised regulations. This procedure was
effective in the Philippines and is practicable in Indonesia. The expert
would be financed bv NORAD and his terms of reference have been agreed
with the Bank. Implementation of the regulations may be undertaken in
connection with further Bank involvement in the sector.
13.       Assistance to PELNI:  PELNI, the major state-owned shipping
company, has received bilateral technical assistance in the form of ad-
visory services since 1970 and from a team of advisors since 1973. The
company has improved its operations somewhat with the advice of this
team. It has 57 ships in operation, 21 of which have been rehabilitated
with funds derived in part from the Association's Credits 318-IND and
310-IND. Its fleet is, then, in reasonable condition. The company has
loan agreements with its banker, BAPINDO, made in connection with reha-
bilitation which refer to implementation of certain recommendations of
the bilateral advisors. Nevertheless PELNI has not been able to succes-
fully control its costs or to increase substantially its proportion of
sailing days to days in service. It is currently in arrears on its pay-
ments on loan made by BAPINDO. A management consultant is required to
review the company's status, structure, operations, management, and tech-
nical capabilities, and draw-up a timed p'lcn of improvement. This is
necessary because PELNI is the only company able to assume the main
responsibility for operating PANN ships if, for any reason, the lessees
default; and because an improvemenL of PELNI operations is an important
requirement for meeting RLS transport needs. The Bank will finance this
technical assistance project; terms of reference have been agreed on
during negotiations and an appointment acceptable to the Bank, will take
place within three months of loan signing. A plan for implementing
recommendations has been agreed.
14.       An economic study of RLS shipping requirements will be carried
out with a view to preparing an optimum investment program in shipping
during Repelita II (1975-1979). Such an optimization analysis is neces-
sary to supplement the analysis of the LTFD Study which is based on a
cost minimization model in which the traffic demand was considered as
given and the main purpose of the investigation was to minimize the
cost of meeting the given demand. Since the proposed Second Shipping
Project forms a part of Repelita II shipping investment program, the
purpose of the study is to establish the additional, if any, shipping



ANNEX 4
Page 4
tonnage requirements, and to estimate their economic benefits, not only
in terms of improving the efficiency of the existing shipping activities
but also the contribution which the investment in shipping will make in
developing the economy, particularly that of the outlying islands. Such
a study is necessary to prepare and support a possible third shipping
project. Terms of reference have been agreed with the Government and
arrangements have been made for one expert, to be financed under the pro-
posed loan, to be added to an existing Netherlands team undertaking
planning for SEACOM.
15.       Additional services for shipping will be required when the
PELNI management consultant reports (for example, additional maintenance
inspection services and internal training) and when the shipyard training
survey is completed. It was considered prudent to provide for these items.
April 1976



Attachlent 1
Page 1
TECHTIICAL ASSISTLITCE
Related to Shipping Program
1.  I:FNAlKlCD BY "OFW  IAN; CRDIT
Local      F.E.        Total
(a) Overseas Training '382 nan months
(i) for PAW-- - 92 man months
(ii) for PMZNI - 200 man months
(iil) other SEACOM, BKI - 510 man months              -       $800,000   $80,000
(Classification, repair, safety,
construction, supervision, insurance,
legal, shipbroker)
'b) 3hipyard Training Center - Phase I
24man months
Instruction, training equipment,
facilities                                        $50,000    $600,000   $650,000
c) Provision for Continuing BKI Team.
108 man months - to be used only if
German aid unavailable.
2 year program to end 1978
(2 mTen x h year; a4 -en x 2 years)               $50,000    $510,000   $510J,00
d) Advisors for P.T. Pann - 48 man months
Resident financial and technical
advi sors                                         $143,000    $245,000   $268,000
(el Revision of Ship Safety Rules
18 man nonths - one expert                       $26,000    $100,0C0   $126,000
T.otal Funded by Nlorwegian Credit               $t169,000  $2,255,000 $2,4214,00
2.    FINANCED BY OTHFU  3ILATERAL AID
(a) Germr  - technical assistance to
3K  ~FTA22) - Funded to July 1J76 for 2 men        $5,000      $50,000    $55,000
(b) Japan - FTA 102, 24 man months
Crew training - 4 experts for
organizing training courses                        $2,000      $52,000    $60,000
(c) Japan - Teleconmmunications
advisors - 12 man maonths                          $4,000      $26,000    $30,000
1/   These costs are to cover namely cash costs of Indonesian nationals in training
and are not comparable to those for foreign expatriates resettled in Indonesia
a.s employees of consulting companies.
April 1976



TNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 2
(d) Netherlands
Local        F.E.     Total
(i) PELNI advisory team (FTA 11?) -
72 man months - funded to M-arch 1)77.
6 experts, project underway                      $35,000   $240,000  $275,000
(ii) Sea Transport Planning (FTA 126) 72 man mths.
funded to M-arch 1977 - 6 experts
project underway                                   35,000    250,000   285 000
Total Funded by Other Bilateral Aid                    $87,000   $618,000  $705,000
3. FINANCED BY WORLD BANK
(a)  BAPINDO Advisors - 48 man months
Resident financial and technical
advisors                                               60,000    185,000   245,000
(b)  Maritime Training Academies
294 man months
(i) 6-month survey and 8 experts for
3 years and shipboard training                     100,000  1,450,000
(ii) Provision for equipment                                     1,000,000 2,550,000
(c)  Provision for Continuing PETLI Advisory
Team (FTA 119) - 72 man months _
6 experts for one year.                                35,000    240,000   275,000
(d)  Management Consultant - Study of PELNI
36 man months
To be concluded in 12 months                           10,000    216,000   226,000
(e)  Provision of Additional Service for Shipping
Engineering services (including acceptable
local consultants)                                     30,000    300,000   330,000
(f)  Provision for Continuing FTA 126
72 man months - 6 experts for one year                 35,000    250,000   285,000
(g)  Economic Study of Future Fleet -
12 man months - 1 man to be added to FTA 126
Team for one year.                                    10,000    125,000   135,000
Total to be financed by World Bank                   $280,000  3,766,000 4,o46,ooo



AkNEX 4
Attachment 1
Page 3
4.  SUN~MRY OF FDTAXICING SOURCES                Local          F.E.          Total
(a) NORWAY                                  $169,000   $2,255,000   $2 L2t4 000
(b) OTHER BILATERAL SOURCES                   87,000       618,000      705,000
(c) WORLD BANK                               280,000    3,766,000    4,o116,000
$536,000   $6,639,000   $7,175,000
5.   SUMIMARY OF PROJECT ITEMS
(a) to ATN                                    43,000       336,800      373 L80
(b) to Government from
(i) Norway                126,000    1,, io,200    2,044,200
(ii) World Bank            280,000    3,766,000    4,046,000
$hoo,Ooo   $5,68L,200   $6,090,200
TOTAL PROJECT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          $449,000   $6,021,0300   $6,470,000
April 1976



ANNI'X 5
Page I
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
P.N. PELNI
A.   The Present Outlook for PELNI
1.        An examination of PELNI finances provides a basis for determining
the financial future of the industry. PELNI's importance is emphasized by
the fact that in case of default by a private operator to PANN, PELNI would
likely assume the defaulted lease(s) and operate the ship(s). PELNI,
recipietnt of 21 rehabilitation loans from BAPINDO under Credit 318, has a
57 ship fleet in reasonably good operating condition. It received about
US$6.7 million (Rp. 2.8 billion) in additional equity from the Government
in 1974 with a further $1.5 million (Rp. 0.6 billion) in 1975, as a result
of the efforts of the Minister of Communications, BAPINDO, and the Bank to
improve its financial condition by reducing PELNI's long-term debt. PELNI
is expected to receive a further injection of equity amounting to about
US$6.4 million (Rp. 2.7 billion) in 1976, of which about US$4 million
(Rp. 1.7 billion) will be used to further reduce long term debt (about
US$5.1 million (Rp. 2.1 billion) at the end of 1975).  Expenses related to
repairs undertaken in foreign shipyards have also been reduced. Losses have
been cut by over 75% between 1973 and 1975 due to increases in freight tariffs
of 20% in 1973, 20% in 1974 and about 25% in 1975, and some progress has been
made in internal accounting. Lack of cost control is now one of PELNI manage-
ment's main problems. Better control over shipping operations is the key to
future improvements. These matters are under review by the advisors and will
be examined by the proposed management consulting technical assistance project.
B.   Future Prospects
General
2.        PELNI advisors, who have worked closely with BAPINDO and the
Resident Staff to effect improvements, have proposed a number of operating
goals to be achieved by 1979, and they are summarized in para 3). If these
goals can be achieved by 1979, and if adequate cost controls can also be
established, PELNI can play the major role assigned to it in the proposed
project and become financially viable by 1980. The PELNI management study
to be undertaken by consultants as part of the proposed project would review
these goals and, if necessary, amend them so that PELNI could function
at least as successfully as is forecast herein.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Operational Forecast
3.        The operational goals referred to above and which are discussed
below, combine to produce an 80% increase in PELNI's productivity (Attachment
1). Equally important, achievement of this increase in productivity will be
mandatory if PELNI's future financial results are to be realized. In order
to review these goals, and to achieve needed administrative and organiza-
tional improvements, the Government has agreed thMt gn internationally re-
cognized shipping management consultant will be retained to produce a time-
phased plan of action. The increase in PELNI's productivity factor, there-
fore, represents one of the major inputs in the company's financial forecasts.
4.        Projections of PELNI's financial position up to 1979 are attached,
and the assumptions on which the projections have been made are detailed
below:
(a) Tonnage Carried - PELNI's tonnage forecast is based on
revenue tons. PELNI must rely on revenue tons because the
ratio between weight tons and revenue tons is unknown.
The LTFD report forecasts are made in terms of weight tons.
(b) Load Factor - Revenue tons carried divided by available
capacity. Although a gradual improvement is assumed,
such an improvement depends heavily on the organization
of the future RLS (licensing, route structure, competition,
etc.).
(c) Repair Days - Gradually decreasing due to a younger fleet
and better planning and organization.
(d) Sea Days/Port Days Ratio - A gradual improvement is assumed.
This improvement is of critical importance and is heavily
dependent on increased Port efficiency (labor productivity,
number of shifts per iay, night facilities, etc.) and ship-
board cargo handling equipment (type of gear, palletizing,
stowage, etc.).
(e) Sea Days - Calculated as follows: number of days in a
year (365), minus repair days, times one over one plus
seadayl portday ratio.
(f) Average Distance - Gradually decreasing due to a more
efficient distribution of cargo. Although the LTFD
mentions an average distance of 620 miles, PELNI's
average will be higher due to service requirements to
West Irian not usually offered by other members of the
RLS.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(g) Average Speed - Increasing slightly due to improved
ship reliability and higher speeds of new ships.
Load factor x Sailing Says x Speed/Hour x 24
(h)  Productivity Ratip - P                    Avrg=Dsac
Average Distance
(i) Tonnage Required - Based on PELNI's share of the total RLS
tonnage in 1979.
(j) Passengers Carried - Although no accurate data exists in
Indonesia regarding the extent of inter-island passenger
traffic, PELNI believes its ships carry a minimum of
two-thirds of the total. Approximately 50% of PELNI's
future gains in passenger traffic are based on attracting
more existing traffic from other RLS operations due to
better and more reliable ships (Table 3).
Financial Prospects
5.         PELNI's profit and loss forecasts, based on management traffic
estimates, appear in Attachment 2. The financial forecasts assume no increase
in the present tariff but do assume an 80% increase in PELNI's productivity by
1979.
6.         Except for two ships acquired as equity in 1976 from a Japanese
aid commitment all future PELNI ships will be acquired from PANN under lease.
This situation would continue until PELNI became able to service additional
debt fromn net cash income, when PANN would act as purchasing agent for PELNI.
Under the proposed project PELNI would lease 46 ships having an acquisition
cost, including delivery costs, of US$110 million (Rp. 46 billion). These
ships represent 46% of project tonnage and 55% of project cost.
7.         PELNI's diverse operations now result in net profits only from
terminal operations. Shipping activities, even after allowing for profits
from passenger operations, have continually incurred losses. Profits from
shipping or on a consolidated basis are not expected in the period of the
forecast. However, the Government has agreed to review, annually, shipping
tariffs in the light of costs and any tariff increases granted in the light
of such reviews should improve PELNI's shipping operating financial results.
Additional details, including a sources and uses of funds statement appears
in Attachment 4.
Financial Assumptions
8.         Aside from the tariff increases received by the RLS in 1973, 1974
and 1975, referred to in Section A above, no additional increases have been



ANNEX 5
Page 4
built into the forecasts outlined in Attachments 1 to 4. These forecasts do
include operating efficiencies outlined in para 4. The majority of future
expense forecasts are based on the high cost structure of the past and do
not reflect the future reductions due to fleet upgrading and better manage-
ment. The assumptions are:
(a) All revenues are based on the present tariff structure.
(b) Freight revenues based on tonnage carried times present
average tariff rate on an assumed average distance.
(c)  Passenger revenues equal number of passengers times
average fare per person.
(d) Commissions equal 7% of total freight and passenger
revenues.
(e) Passenger expense, assumed to be 18% of passenger revenues,
is based on past experience.
(f) Port expenses increase proportionately to tonnage carried.
(g) Bunker fuel costs at present prices rise in proportion
to total tonnage times sailing days.
(h)  Depreciation for existing PELNI fleet is based on 10%
declining balance.
(i) PANN lease payments are based on an interest rate of
10% per year.
(j) Management costs are assumed to increase at 5% per year,
or less than the rise in tonnage.
(k) Terminal income increases are based on tonnage factor
(1) Terminal costs are chiefly labor.
(m) All other expenses include funding past pension costs
and writing off doubtful accounts.
(n) Forecast variable costs (fuel, port call costs, port lay
cost, cargo cost, commissions and passenger costs) are
given below for the years 1976-1979.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Variable Costs (Rp. million)
1976       1977           1978       1979
Fuel                       1,527      1,863          2,270      2,378
Port Call Cost                 331        407            504        536
Port Lay Cost                  330        337            409        421
Cargo Cost                     449        602            808        892
Commission                     785      1,005          1,274      1,406
Pass. Costs                    498        543            584        631
3,920     4,757          5,849      6,264
April 1976



INDONESIA
APPRnAISAL OF A SErCX0-D SHIPPING PROJECT
P.N. PELNI
Operational Forecast
(Averaged)
Actual           Estimate       ------      Forecat -
Year                                            1973      1975                    1976        1977        19782
Revenue Tons (000's)                            1,050      1,O44       1,111       1,334       1,787       2,412     2,674
Passengers (000's)                                312        299         238          304        330         360        390
Load Factor (L.F.)                                .37        .393        .36          .42         .44       .465        .50
Repair Days                                        66         66          55          31          30          28         35
Ratio: Seadays/Portdays                        1/1.58     1/1.88      1/1.75      1/1.35      1/1.33      1/1.28    1/1.28
Seadays (S.D.)                                    116        124         138          142        144         148        149
Average Distance (miles)(A.D.)                    800      1,024         984          930        920         900        870
Average Speed (m.p.h.) (A.S.)                     9.5       10.5       10.76         10.5       10.5        10.6     10.75
Ratio: Productivity:
(L.F. x S.D. x A.S. x 24)
(         A.D.           )                    12.3        12.1        13.6        16.2        17.4        19.4      22.1
Ship Tonnage Required
Existing                                       82,400     82,300      80,670      80,150      77,800      75,450    72,260
Time charter (net)                               -         4,700       9,200        -           -           -         -
Add: Used                                        -          -           -             500      5,750      11,500    11,500
New                                         -          -           -          1,690        19725    36,750  _3650
Total Ship Tonnage            82,400      87,000      89,870       82,340    103,275    123,700   120,510
Vessels in Operation                                          55          57         54 3/4       76          92        87
Average Size of Vessel (D.W.T.)                            1,524       1,578      1,504        1,359       1,345     1,385
Source: PELNI Management Advisors, Bank Staff
April 1976
C..



INDIDEIA
APPRhISAL OF A SRO=  SEIPP3=  PNJCT
P.N. PELZI
Consolidated Profit and Loss State-ents
(millions of Aupiahs)
Elscal 1 2/31
1973       1974          1975           1976          1977          1978         1979
Actual    Actual      Tentative         Budget          ----------Forecast------------
Shipping Operations
PFeight Revemnes                 4,528       6,571        7,560            8,071        10,518        13,560      15,812
Passenger Revenues                1,962      2,560        2,727            2,873          3,300        3,600       3,900
Total Shipping devenues          6,490       9,131       10,287           10,944         13,818       17,160      19,712
Variable Costs                    2,300      3,055        3,993            3,907         4,757         5,849       6,264
Fixed Costs                       5,264      5,378        5,400            5,769          7,297        8,502       8,831
Management Costs                    704        866        1,118               999         1,050        1:,10       1,100
Sub-total         9TW99                   1951      TU1,0               7T                         15,45l  10,
Depreciation                        724        773          615            1  s            2            454         5'
Ship Lease Costs                                                             140 __   __   127        ___           _
Total Shipping Operating Costs   8,992      10,072       11,126           12,341         16,806       21,514      23,116
Net Operating Income (loss)-
shipping          (2,502)      t941_ )      (839)          (1,397)        (2,988)      (4,354)     (3,4)
Terminal/Agency Operations
Revenues                          4,657       5,468        6,858            6,601         7,813         9,469      10,286
Operating Ecpenses                 3,634      4,204        5,601            5,314          5,992        6,871       7,378
Sub-total                  1,023       1,264        1,2571                         1,821         2,598      T,96tF
Depreciation                        190         152          183              140           140           140         llp
Net Income - Terminals/Agencies        833      1,112        1,074            1,147          1,681        2,458       2,768
Other Activities -/
Inceme                                410     1,008        1,349            1,163          1,218        1,274       1,333
Less: Interest on Long Term Debt        n/a      n/a           n/a              315            100           40          25
Pensions                              -        -            -                30             350          400         4
Other tcpenses                     1,012     1,989        2,093            1,111          1,139        1,140       1,1V
Net Income (loss) - Other              (542)    (981)         (744)             (563)         (371)        (306)       (287)
Consolidated Income (loss)          (2,211)      (810)        (509)            (813)       (1,678)       (2,202)       (923)
Note 1/ Includes Hospitals, Housing and Miscellaneous Activities
April 1976



Attac1Sent 3
APPR&ISAL OF A SLCCND SHIPNG PRDJECT
P.T. PELNI
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(millionB of Rupiah)
1973          1974                 19       276        1977          1978        1979
Actual        Actual   Provisional          -Forecast -------------------
CURIR$T ASSETS:
G'a.sh                                 320           584           398             400         350          300          350
IReceivables                          2,384        3,748         3,740           3,760       3,689       4,191         4,853
Stores/Supplies                         118          260           262             265         270          280          290
Others                                   75          133           113             115         120          125          130
Total Current Assets                  2,897        4,725         4,513           4,540       4,429       4,896         5,623
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
921        1,199           603             500         400         300           200
Die Bank   l2,65                                   2.533         1,941           2,076       2,500        3,500        4,000
Othras a.be                              47          1142          604             650         700         750           800
Tota:L Current Liabilities             3,618        3,874         3,148           3,226       3,600        4,550        5,000
Net Working Capital                  (721)          851         1,365           1,314         829         346           623
FlIMD ASSETS:
F]eet at Cost                       35,710        35,710        34,250          35,920      35,920       35,920       35,920
LeSE,  iepreciation                  27,981       28,7CI        27,927          29,hA3      30,982       32.L36       33,51
Fleeet at Net                         7,729        6,956         6,323           6,467       4,938        3,484        2,369
Other MeOta it Lt                     2,412        2,284         2,581           3,322       3,117        2,912        2,707
Tcital Net Fixed
Assets                               10,141        9,240          8,904          9,789       8,055        6,396        5,076
Other Assets                            969          699            810            810         810          810          810
Sub-total Assets                     10,389       10,790         11,079         11,913       9,694        7,552        6,509
Less Long Term Debt                   3,<13        1,848         2,133           1.061         480          360          240
Total Assets less Long Term
Debt           6,876        8,942          8,946         1GA52         9,214       7,192        6,269
OWNERSHIP AHD OR
Capital                               7,387       10,153        10,785          13,455      13,455       13,455       13,455
Accimulated Sarplus (Loss)          (1,867)      (2,567)        (3,195)        (3,959)      (5,597)     (7,619)      (8,542)
Capital Surplus                       1,356        1,356         1,356           1,356       1,356        1,356        1,356
Net, Jquity                           6.876        8,942          8,946         10,852        9,214       7,192        6.269
SOUtC:E.: PELNI and Bank Staff



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PI)JECT
P.N. PELNI
Consolidated Source and Application of Funds
(millions of Rupiahs)
1973         1974       1975        1976       1977         1978      1979
hctual       Actual   Estimated    Budget       ----    Forecast-
Sources
Net Income (less) SJipping               (1,642)         (941)     (839)      (1,397)   (2,988)      (4,354)      (3,404)
Terminals                948        1,112      1,074       1,157      1,681        2,458        2,768
Other                   (648)         (871)     (864)        (563)     (371)        (306)        (287)
Depreciation:     Shipping                  734          773        615       1,526      1,529        1,454        1,115
Other                    128          205        205          205       205          205          205
Total Cash Flow           (480)          278       191          928        56         (543)         397
Scrapping Proceeds          -            217        -            40        40          180           -
Increase in iquity          -          2,766       632        2,670          -          -            -
Increase in Long Term
Debt       1,117           785       960          600          -           -           _
Total Sources              637        4,046      1,783        4,230         96        (363)         397
Applications
Fixed Assets Expenditures:
Ships                      -            -         -         1,670          -          -            -
Terminals                476            24       594          947          -          -            -
Sub-total                476            24       594        2,617          -          -            -
Reduction in Long Term Debt                 791         2,450       675        17672 -      581         120          120
Total Application      1,267        2,474      1,269        4,289       581          120          120
Net Change in dorKing Capital              (630)        1,572       "I4          (51)      (485)        (483)        277
Net Working Capital Beginning of Period   (91)           (721)      851        1,365      1,314          829         346
Net 'Working Capital End of Period         (721)          851     1,365        1,314        829          346         623  e 
Source: PELNI and Bank Staff






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
P. T. PANN
A.   Principal Assumptions Unerlying Financial Forecast
1.        PANN's charge-out rate is assumed to be 10% per annum, or
2-1/4% quarterly.
2.        PANN's average borrowing rate is assumed to be 12.4% per annum,
or 3.1% quarterly.
3.        All ships are assumed to be passed on by PANN to its customers
on lease terms. PANN's customers will make equal payments on a quarterly
basis beginning in the quarter prior to receiving the ship.
4.        Payments were scheduled by ship program in the following manner:
New              -  15 years    - 60 quarterly payments
Used             -  10 years    - 40    "           "
Rehabilitated   -   5 years    - 20    "            "
5.        Depreciation, or the return of PANN's principal, was not computed
on an actuarial basis but, for simplification purposes, on the straight line
method.
6.        All of PANN's new and used ship customers are assumed to sign
a binding agreement, inter alia, prior to their acquisition of vessels.
7.        Commitment fees represent 1% of loans and leases on all new and
used ships and will be paid by PANN's customers at the time of contract
signing. Such fees are to be used as a reserve for possible loan losses.
8.        Insurance expenses have not been taken into consideration in
this forecast.
9.        It has been assumed that PANN pays no income taxes.
10.       It has been assumed further that PANN will retain all inter-
nally generated funds to assist in the financing of the project. After
project completion, PANN will use internally generated funds to either
pay dividends to the Government or finance subsequent ship acquisitions.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
11.       PANN's owners will declare no cash dividends, or return of
capital prior to the liquidation of the company's long-term debt.
12.       The Government will inject equity capital into the company's
capital structure in equal proportion to long-term debt.
13.       Annual escalation factors, computed by quarter, were added to
the base price of the rehabilitation programs on the following basis:
1976, 15%; 1977 and 1978, 10%; and 1979, 7.5%. Escalation was not
applied to new and used ship purchases.
14.       Interest during construction was computed at 12% per year, or
3% per quarter, on all outstanding loan funds by ship (new and used)
or by tonnage (rehabilitation).
15.       Delivery costs were calculated at an average of US$120,000
for all new and used ships. Since most ships would be purchased or built
in Europe and Japan, these costs reflect the many expenses pertaining to
transfer, registration and mortgage fees, sailing expenses to Indonesia
and, in the case of used ships, surveyor costs, legal fees, etc.
16.       P.T. PANN is assumed to receive loans for new ships on a 15
years, one year grace period basis; for used ships on a 10 years, one
year grace period base and for rehabilitation on a five years, one year
grace basis.
B.   Notes to Financial Projections
17.       Low profitability in the first years is caused because deprecia-
tion was assumed on a straight-line basis. To be exact, one would have to
use the capital portion of each annuity as depreciation since the income
of P.T. PANN is the interest differential between borrowing and lending and
depreciation, i.e., capital recovery should be neutralized. This would
show higher profits at the beginning of the project life but reduced pro-
fits in the last third of the project period.
18.       The borrowing rate of P.T. PANN is assumed to be 12.4% p.a.
This is a weighted average between borrowing from BAPINDO at 15% (US$15.0
million) and borrowings from official sources (US$79.6 million) at 12% (assume
about 50% equity and 50% debt (para 5.03)).
19.       Under the above assumptions, the Government would be able to
price its equity contribution at between 3% to 4% which would still allow
a large enough spread to cover operating expenditures.
April 1976



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Ship Procurement Program
P.T. PANN
New Ships                                    Used Ships
13 x 750        =        9,750  dwt          41 x 1,000       =       41,000  dwt
13 x 950        =       12,350   '            1 x 1,200       =        1,200  it
8 x 980                 7,840   "            3 x 1,500       =        4,500
8 x 1,700      =       13,600   "            2 x 2,500                5,000
5 x 1,650      =        8.25o
47 ships                51,790  dwt          47 ships                 51,700  dwt
1.      New Ships (all fixed prices)                              (US$000)
(a)  Indonesian Shipyards  1975   750 dwt  I              1,652.2
(20 ships)                   750  '   II             1,679.4
950  "                 1,748.3
1976   950  "                  2,428.7
980  "                 2,250.0
1,700  "                 3,200.0
(b)  Japanese Shipyards    1975   750  "                  1,916.1;
(7 ships)             1976   750  "                  2,101.6
(c) Norwegian Shipyards   1976   950  "                   3,015.6
(20 ships)                    980  "                 3,004.9
1 ,650  "                3,609.0
1,700  "                 3,514.9
2.      Used Ships   1975    =    actual price
1976         US$800 per dwt
3.      Delivery Costs     US$120,000 per ship
April 1976



TNDONESTA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SIIIPPING PROJECT
P. T. PANN
Schedule of Ship Del-veries 1/
1975                        1976                  1977                       1978                        1979                   Total dwt   2/
i        _TITI        TV    T    ii   111    IV        1    TI    TTT    TV    T    TI    TT          TV    T    II    ITT      IV
A. NEW SHIPS
Es-Japan                 7 a 750 dwt                                                                                                          5,250                                                                               5,250
Ex-Indonesia             6 s 750 dwt                                                                               2,250        2,250                                                                                            4,500
8 x950 dwt                                                                                             2,850'        4,750                                                                              7,600
3   980 dwt                                                                                                          2,940;                                                                             2,940
3 x 1700 dwt                                                                                                         5,100              ,                                                               5,100
Ex-Norway                5 x 950 dwt                                                                                                                 1,900   950 1,900                                                           4,750
5 x 980 dwt                                                                                                          1,960'  980   980'  980                                                            4,900
5 x 1,650 dwt                                                                                                               1,650' 4,950,1,650                                                          8,250
5 x 1,700 dwt                                                                                                        1,700'       3,400 3,400'                                                          8500
51. 790
B. URED SHIPS
bAPINDO Financed         6 x 1,000 d.t                                          4,000    2,000                                                                                                                                   6,000
1 x I1,200 dvt                                                  1,200                                                                                                                                   1,200
ITRD Financed          35 x 1,000 dwt                                                                                    6,300 6,000 6,000  6,000 6,000 5,000                                                                   35,000
3 x 1,500 dvt                                                                                          3,000 1,5((                                                                                      4,500
2 x 2,500 dwt                                                                                   5,n03                                                                                                   5,000
51. 700
C. REHARBILrIA'ttON                                                                                                             1,500 6,500  2,500 3,500 4,500  4,500  4,500 4,500  4,500 4,500 4,500 4,500 4,500               54,500
NOTE: i/ Actua] tim.ing of ship deliveries say vary from thAt shown below.
2/ Slight discrepancies between these figores and those given in the Aenne Lo the
agreed Minutes of Negotiations are of individual ship tonnages.
April 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
SHIP COST ESTIMATES (P.T. PANN)
(Rupish millions)
-----__- ______------------------- -   -------     1. NEW  ianS---------- ---------------------------------                                                               2. USED SHIIPS_------       _ --------
Ships                                          Interest during         Delivery          Total        Ships                                         Interet  ur  S -          TDa ivry          tt
Year     Quarter       No.        Dwt               Base Cost         Construction             Cost             Cost           No.        Dwt        Bsse Cost             Construction              Cost              Cost
1975        1                                                                                                                 4         4,000           1,294                    35                  100             1,429
2                                                                                                                3         3,200           1,016                    28                  100             1,143
1976        2         3         2,250                2,057                 65                 -               2,122
3                                                                                                                8        11,000           3,652                    63                  398             4,113
4        6         5,100                4,268                143                  -              4,411           8         9,000           2,988                    52                  398              3,438
1917        1                                                                                                                 7         7,500           2,490                    44                  349             2,883
2       21        21 700               21,883                767                  498           23,148           6         6,000           1,992                    36                  299             2,327
3        4         42530                5,248                248                  199            5,695           6         6,000           1,992                    36                  299              2,327
4        7        10,280                9,909                494                  349           10,752           5         5,000           1,660                    31                  249              1,940
1978        1         6         7.930                8.165                425                  299            8 889                                 ______08
47       51,790               51,530              2,142                1,345           55,017           47        51,700         17,084                   325___1960
3. REHABILITATION
Interest During         Total
Year      Quarter                Dwt               Base Cost           Escalation      Construction           Cost
1976        4                   1 500                  109                 11                    3              123
1977        1                   6,500                  472                 69                   14              555
2                  2,500                  182                 32                    5              219
3                  3,500                  254                 52                    8              314
4                  4,500                  326                 77                   10              413
1978        1                   4,500                  326                 87                   10              423
2                  4,500                  327                 92                   10              429
3                  4,500                  327                107                   11              445
4                  4,500                  327                118                   11              456
1979        1                   4,500                  327                127                   11              465
2                  4,500                  327                136                   12              475
3                  4,500                  327                145                   12              484
4                  4.500                  327                153                   12              492
54,500               3,958              1,2                    129            5,293                                                                                                   oi



IND0)NESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
P.T. PANN
Projected Income 3tatement 1975-1982
(Hp. million)
1974      1975       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
(Actual)(Estimated)  ------------------- Forecast -----------------------
Revenues
New Ships                                           -          12    2,958   6,788   7,120   7,120    7,120   7,120
Used Siips                               -           166      189    2,201   2,913   2,913   2,913    2,913   2,913
Rehabilitated tonnage                    -          -          -       158      494      890   1,154    1,154      995
Conmitment Fees                          -          -         663       82       18      10    -          -        -
Total Revenues                           -           T66      864    5,399  10,213  10,933  11,187   1187 -1150
Expenses
Operating Expenses                        27         104       250     325      425      525     525       525     525
Technical Assistance                     -           -                  74      -       -        -         --      -
Total Operating EXpenses                  27         104       300     399    4T2       525      525       525     525
Gross Income                             (27)         62       564   5,000   9,788  10,408  10,662   10,662  10,503
Less Depreciation:
New Ships                                             -         70   1,417   3,120   3,166   3,166    3,166   3,166
Used Ships         )                                  34       103   1,146   1,703   1,703   1,703    1,703   1,703
Rehabilitated Ships)                                  -         -      151      455     827   1,060    1,o60       909
Other Assets                         _8                         11       16      31      46       51        51
Subtotal - depreciation                 -                      184   2,730  75,309   5,742   5
Net Operating Income (Loss)              (27)         20      380   2,270   4,479   4,666  4,682        4,682   4,680
Less: Fixed Charges                     _            135       212   2,287   4,478   4,100   3,724    3,300   2,889  
Reserves for Loan Losses         -              19      644       82      18       10    -         -        _
Plus Other income                         31190                 -      -        -       -       -
Net Income (Loss)                          4          56      (476)   (99)      (17)    556      958    1,382   1, 791   .
April 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
P.T. PANN
Prolected Balance Sheets 1975-1982
Rupiah Millions
1974             1975             1976              1977           1978           1979         1980            1981              1982
(Actual)     (Estimated)           ------------------------------------- Forecast -------------------------------------------
AS SETS
Current     Cash                                     1,946                91              734-           1,236          1,120            2,405        S,998         10,074             14,284
Receivables                               -                  79               48 1       118                2.04 2..7                    2,271
Total Current Assets                    1,946               170              782             2,354          3,166           4,638        8,271          12,345            16,613
Fixed       Ships - new                                                  -              6,883           45,763         56,054           56,054       56,054         56,054             56,054
Ships - used                                              1,231           10,124           19,601          19,601          19,601       19,601          19,601            19,601
Rehabilitation tonnage               _ _123                                                  1 624          3,377           5,292        5,292          5,292              5,292
Sub-total                                                 1,231           17,130           66,988          79,032          80,947       80,947         80,947             80,947
Less: Depreciation                                           34              207             2,921          8,199          13,895       19,824         25.753           _31.531
Net Fixed Assets in use                                   1,197           16,923           64,067          70,833          67,052       61,123          55,194            49,416
Plus Works in Progress                                   1121            22.337           10,315             452            -                    -                -
Total Net Fixed Assets                      29            2,318           39,260            74,382         71,285          67,052       61,123          55,194            49,416
Long term receivables                     -               1,288            1,073               858            643             428           214           -
Intangible Fixed Assets                      5                4                4                 4              4               44
Other Assets (net)                          30               50                75         _   159             328             382           331            280         _     235
Total Assets                             2.010            3,830           41,194            7 ,757         75,426          72,Yo4       69,943          67,823            66,268
LIABILITIES
Current     Accounts Payable                              6                6               332              892          1,150           1,072           963            851                745
Current Portion of Long Term Debt          -                130               980            2,890          3,410            3,1410       3,9C90         3,240              3,12i0
Total Annual Liabilities                     6              1 36            1,312             ,782                                                                          3,
0                                    3~~~~~,56,820                 41534,09
Long Term Debt                                            119-09                           4                 490 1,7,00                 24,7 5i1 21,6403
Reserves for Loan Losses-                                    19               663             '4               63              773          737373
Deferrea Income                            -                 45                45               45             45               45           45             45                 45
Equity      Share Capital                             2,000            2,000           20,500            39,000         39,000          39,000       39,000          39,000            39,000                e&P
Accumulated Earnings (Losses)                4                60             (416)          5_ 2)                         (                                2,41 
Total Equity                             2,004            2,060            20,084 238,485                  38,468           39,024       39,982         41,364             43,1
Total Liabilities and Equity             2,010            3,830          141,194            7 7,T          7576             72,5014    -6-53            6712                h
April 1976



IND)ONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
P.1, PANN
Source and Application of Funds 1975-1982
Rupiah Millions
Totals
1974              1975               1976               1977           1978         1979     1974-79            1980              1981               1982
Sources:
Net Income (Loss)                                            4                  56               (476)               (99)          (17)         556            24            958               1,382              1,791
Plus Depreciacion                                           -                   42                184           2,730           5,309         5 742       14,007           5,980               5 980              5,823
Cash from Operations                                         4                  98               (292)            2,631         5,292                     14,031          6,930            -7;36t2        7smi
Increase in Equity                                      2,000                  -              18, 500            18,500                         -        39,000                                 -
-Debt                                          -                1,700            18,500             18,500            300           -        M ,0              - ,_-
-Reserves                                                         -                  644                 82            18            10          754
-Payables                                      -                  -                  326                560           258           (78)      1,066            (109)               (112)              (106)
Deferred Income                                              8                  64                                                                            72
Decrease in Long Term Receivables                                                                 215               215            215           215         860             214                 214
Total Sources                                           2,012683                                                                              6,14125     9                7,043          ____                     7,
Applications:
Shipping Investment - New Ships                              -                  -             28,016             26,651           387           -         55,054
- Used Ships                          -              2,352              8,S21             9,728             -             -       20,601
- Rehabilitation                      -                  -                578              1,457         1,794         1,463        5,292
Other Assets                                                66                  ( 2,               36               100           200           1D0          500
Sub-total Investmenit                                       66              2,350             37,151             37,936         2,381         1 563      81.447
Repayment of Long Tenm  Debt                                 -                                    130               980         2,890         3410        7                 ,41
Increase in Receivables                                      -                37                 (1)              1,070           928         3,187       7,21 41340                          3                 3,240
Total Applications                                          66                                                                   392187                   7                -_                      2X
Surplus (Deficit) for year                              1,946              (1,855)               6h1 4              502          (116)        1,285        2,405          3,593               14,076_             74T
Cash Beginning of Year                                       -              1,946 191                               734         1,236         1,120          -            2,40                5,998            10,0714
Cashi End of Year                                       1,946                   91               (314             1,3            ,2            ,4405          05981,74114,2814
April 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Procedures for the Execution of
the Project
A.   General
1.        PANN shall invite Shipping Eaterprises to apply to PANN for the
purchase or lease of a new or used ship or the rehabilitation of one or
more of the ships then owned and operated by such Enterprises.
2.        Upon receipt of such application and upon the request of PANN,
BAPINDO shall, pursuant to a consultancy agreement between PANN and BAPINDO,
carry out an appraisal of the technical, operational and financial con-
ditions of the applicant Shipping Enterprise and of its ships.
3.        On the basis of the application, the appraisal and the advice of
its consultants, PANN shall decide whether the applicant Shipping Enterprise
is eligible for assistance under the Project and, if so, the form such
assistance shall take, and the terms and conditions upon which it shall be
made available.
4.        Subsequently, PANN shall inform SEACOM of its decision and furnish
to SEACOM such information as SEACOM may require, and shall obtain from
SEACOM a statement indicating what ships, if any, of the applicant Shipping
Enterprise shall be rehabilitated or scrapped.
5.        Thereafter, if the Shipping Enterprise is eligible for assistance
under the Project, PANN shall enter into a Development Agreement with the
Shipping Enterprise specifying the terms and conditions under which ships
will be made available to the Enterprise by PANN or be rehabilitated.
6.        Ships constructed to the order of, or purchase by, PANN shall
be sold or leased to Shipping Enterprises. PANN may sell ships to
creditworthy Shipping Enterprises on terms pursuant to which the sales
price will be paid to PANN in installments subject to interest on the
balance of the sales price outstanding from time to time.
7.        Ship rehabilitation under the Project shall be carried out
by PANN under arrangements whereby PANN will lease the ship to be reha-
bilitated from the Enterprise and lease it back to the Enterprise upon
completion of the rehabilitation.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
B.   Appraisal of Shipping Enterprises
8.        The appraisal of Shipping Enterprises referred to in paragraph A.2
of this Annex shall be carried out, at least during the first two years, by
BAPINDO's Maritime Credit Department pursuant to a consultancy agreement with
PANN. During this period of two years, staff of PANN will assist BAPINDO's
staff in making the appraisals with the intention that at the end of this
period further appraisals will be done solely by PANN's staff.
9.        The appraisal shall to the extent possible include inter alia the
following:
(a)  An inspection of the ships owned by the Shipping Enter-
prise and operated in inter-island carriage. The in-
spections shall be carried out with due regard to the
regulations of SEACOM and in consultation with BKI.
The inspection report shall provide the technical
specifications and age of the ships; state their value
as estimated on the basis of appropriate valuation
principles and procedures; specify what ships, if any,
meet the Borrower's licensing requirements and BKI's
classification standards or may be rehabilitated or
are recommended for scrapping; and state for each
ship that may be rehabilitated what repairs or modi-
fications must be made to the ship or its equipment
to meet such requirements and standards or to improve
its productivity, as well as the estimated cost of
rehabilitation. In those cases where lack of time
or physical difficulty of access make it impractical
to inspect all ships of an Enterprise before com-
pletion of the appraisal suitably qualified reports
will be made on ships not inspected and every reasonable
endeavor will be made to inspect such ships at a later
date and to report on the results of the inspection.
(b)  An evaluation of the staff of the Shipping Enterprise,
with special emphasis on- management, organization
and administration of the Enterprise; salary and wage
structure; accounting; planning and budgeting;
navigational qualifications; routine maintenance;
internal and external communications; and passenger
and cargo handling. The evaluation report shall
make detailed recommendations on the actions to
be taken to correct any deficiencies found, including
without limitation training required and the employ-
ment of consultants.
(c) An evaluation of the operations of the Shipping
Enterprise, producing, on the basis of reliable



ANNEX 7
Page 3
data on past operations and realistic forecasts
of future operations (including the effect of the
Enterprise's participation in of the Project), and
on an annual basis, detailed information covering
the two fiscal years immediately preceding and the two
fiscal years immediately following the year in which
the evaluation is made as well as the current fiscal
year, and in outline forecasts for the third, fourth
and fifth fiscal years immediately following the year
in which the evaluation is made, on: routes covered;
revenues earned per ton or ton-mile or, if possible,
the ratio between weight ton and revenue ton; number
of passengers carried; load factor; repair days;
seadays-portdays ratio; seadays; average distance
travelled each year per ship; average speed per ship;
productivity ratio (i.e., tons carried or ton-miles
sold each year per dead weight ton); crew-ton ratio
or crew per ton-mile sold ratio for each ship; and
total tonnage required each year to meet demand on the
routes concerned. The evaluation report shall make
detailed recommendations on the actions considered to
be required to improve the Enterprise's operations
and financial condition.
(d) A financial appraisal of the Shipping Enterprise, based
on its financial statements and records for the im-
mediately preceding fiscal year, audited by qualified
independent auditors (or, if such audit was not made and
cannot be completed in time, reviewed by BAPINDO), and
on realistic forecasts of revenues and costs, and cover-
ing the periods referred to in the preceding paragraph
(c). The financial appraisal report shall include a
detailed analysis of past and future balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements
and shall specify inter alia the debt-equity ratios
and current ratios for said periods. The appraisal
report shall make detailed recommendations on the actions
to be taken to improve the financial condition of the
Enterprise, and shall recommend financial targets to be
met by the Enterprise.
C.   Terms and Conditions on which PANN will make Assistance
Available to Shipping Enterprises
10.       PANN shall on the basis of the appraisal report and SEACOM's state-
ment referred to in paragraph A hereof conclude a Development Agreement in
form and substance acceptable to the Bank with each eligible Shipping Enter-
prise stating the terms and conditions on which assistance will be made
available.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
I1.       Only Shipping Enterprises that are considered to be able to meet
all their foreseeable financial obligations to PANN shall be eligible.
12.       Each Development Agreement shall be entered into on terms and
conditions adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and PANN, and
shall inter alia:
(a)  Specify the main particulars of the new or used ships
to be acquired by PANN for sale or lease to the Shipping
Enterprise and the ships of the Enterprise to be reha-
biliated with the assistance of PANN or to be scrapped.
(b)  Require the Shipping Enterprise to enter into agreements
with PANN for the sale (on cash or credit terms as
appropriate or lease to the Enterprise of any new or used
ship acquired by PANN pursuant to the Development Agreement,
and such sale or lease agreements shall be substantially in
accordance with the form of sale or lease agreement attached
to the Development Agreement.
(c) Require the Shipping Enterprise to rehabilitate any ship
that is to be rehabilitated under the Development Agree-
ment from resources otherwise available to the Enterprise;
or, alternatively, if the rehabilitation of the ship is to
be financed by PANN, to lease and deliver the ship to PANN
and, upon completion of its rehabilitation, to lease the
ship back from PANN under a lease agreement substantially
in accordance with the form of lease agreement attached to
the Development Agreement.
(d) Require the Shipping Enterprise to deliver to PANN, by
the date specified in the Development Agreement, the
registration certificate and sailing permit of any of
its ships to be scrapped, or evidence that these
certificates have been cancelled or that the ship has
been struck off the Indonesian ship register.
(e) Require PANN: (i) to purchase or to rehabilitate the
ships to be purchased or rehabilitated by PANN pursuant
to the Development Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, engineering and shipping practices, and
at reasonable costs which shall not exceed the maximum
cost figures specified in the Development Agreement, as
such maximum cost figures may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the parties to that Agreement,
with the consent of the Bank if such costs are to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) to



ANNEX 7
Page 5
arrange for the training of staff of the Shipping Enterprise
in the operation and maintenance of the ships so purchased
or rehabilitated.
(f) Require the Shipping Enterprise:
(i) to manage its affairs, carry on its operations
(including without limitation the adequate and
timely maintenance of its ships) and plan its
future expansion in accordance with appropriate
financial, administrative and shipping practices
under the supervision of experienced and com-
petent management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers;
(ii) to maintain adequate records and to have its
accounts and financial statements for each of
its fiscal years audited by a qualified in-
dependent auditor;
(iii) to take out and to maintain, or to authorize PANN
to take out and to maintain for the acount and
benefit of the Enterprise, with responsible
insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice, providing without limitation for all-
risk insurance in respect of each of the ships of
the Enterprise for the full replacement value of
such ships and for the assignment to PANN of the
insurance proceeds if and to the extent required
to cover the Enterprise's obligations towards
PANN in respect of such ship;
(iv) to furnish to PANN such information as PANN
shall request concerning the operations and financial
condition of the Shipping Enterprise, to permit
representatives of PANN and the Bank to inspect
the ships of the Shipping Enterprise and any
relevant records and documents; and
(v) to perform such other obligations as shall be
designed to improve the operations and financial
condition of the Shipping Enterprise and shall
be specified in the Development Agreement.
(g) Permit PANN to exercise appropriate remedies in the event
that the Shipping Enterprise will have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Rehabilitation
Agreement.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
D.   Procurement of Used Ships
13.       PANN shall procure the used ships specified in the Development
Agreements in accordance with the following procedures.
14.       PANN shall, through its shipbroker and surveyor consultants, secure
offers for the sale of used ships that will be less than ten years old at
the date of their purchase by PANN' and that meet the requirements of the
Shipping Enterprises as specified in their respective Development Agreements.
If an offer is made, PANN shall, prior to its acceptance, make an inspection
of the ship.
i5.       PANN shall send a copy of the inspection report to SEACOM and
BK1 and obtain statements:
(a) from SEACOM that the ship qualifies for licensing in
inter-island shipping, or, if not, a statement of the
alterations to be made so to qualify the ship; and
(b) from BKI that the ship meets BKI's classification stan-
dards, or, if not, a statement of the alterations to
be made to permit the ship to meet such standards.
16.       On the basis of the inspection report and BKI's statement, PANN
shall prepare a final report and recommendation on the purchase of the ship.
PANN shall furnish copies of the inspection report and its final report and
recommendations to the Enterprise and consult the Enterprise thereon.
17.       If PANN and the Enterprise decide that the ship is suitable, PANN
shall negotiate with the shipowner the sale of the ship to PANN and arrange
for the repairs and alteratons required, if any. If PANN accepts the ship
and if during the predelivery drydock inspection PANN considers it necessary
or desirable to carry out any repairs or modifications to the ship PANN shall
obtain an estimate of the cost thereof and arrange for such repairs or
modifications.
E.  Rehabilitation of Ships of Shipping Enterprises
18.       The rehabilitation of ships pursuant to the Development Agree-
ments shall be carried out in accordance with the following procedures.
19.       If the Shiipping Enterprise shall decide that the rehabilitation
of a ship will not be financed by PANN, the Shipping Enterprise shall enter
into a contract acceptable to PANN for rehabilitation of the ship with a
qualified and experienced shipyard which contract shall provide inter alia
that the rehabilitation works shall include at least the modifications to be
made to the ship puisuant to the survey report referred to in paragraph B.2(a)
of this Annex. PANN shall promptly notify SEACOM of such decision.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
20.       If the ship's rehabilitation is to be financed by PANN, the Enter-
prise shall lease and deliver the ship to PANN under a lease agreement which
shall run for not more than five years. PANN shall enter into a contract for
rehabilitation of the ship with a shipyard selected by PANN in consultation
with the Enterprise and after prudent shopping. The ship rehabilitation
works contract shall provide inter alia for a rehabilitation cost which,
unless otherwise agreed between PANN and the Shipping Enterprise with the
consent of the Bank, shall not exceed the maximum cost figure specified in
the Development Agreement with the Enterprise, and for the execution of all
modifications to be made to the ship pursuant to the inspection report
referred to in paragraph B.2(a) of this Annex. Upon completion of the reha-
bilitation works, PANN shall lease the ship back to the Enterprise.
F. Terms and Conditions of Sales and Leases by PANN
21. Sales of Ships by PANN
(a)  Sales of ships by PANN shall be made under arrangements
whereby the purchase price of the ship shall be paid
either in cash upon delivery of the ship to the Ship-
ping Enterprise or in installments.
(b)  At the request of the Shipping Enterprise PANN shall
sell to the Enterprise the ships constructed or pur-
chased under of the Project, under a purchase
agreement substantially in accordance with the form
of purchase agreement attached to the Development
Agreement with the Enterprise.
(c)  If the Enterprise is creditworthy, PANN shall at the
request of the Enterprise finance a portion of the
construction cost or the purchase price of the ship
by permitting the Enterprise to pay such portion of
the purchase price in installments. The portion of
the purchase price to be paid in installments shall
not exceed 90% of the purchase price. The Enterprise
shall pay interest at the rate of 10% per annum on
the portion of the purchase price outstanding from
time to time. In addition, the Enterprise shall
upon signing of the purchase agreement pay to PANN
a one-time commitment fee equal to 1% of the portion
of the purchase price to be paid in installments.
For newly constructed ships, the installment period
shall not exceed fifteen years including a grace
period of not more than six months after the de-
livery of the ship to the Enterprise; for used ships,
the installment period shall not exceed ten years



ANNEX 7
Page 8
including a grace period of not more than six
months after the delivery of the ship to the
Enterprise. All debt service obligations of
the Enterprise to PANN shall be secured by a
first mortgage on the ship.
22,       Leases of Ships by PANN
(a) If the newly constructed or used ship cannot be sold
to the Shipping Enterprise, PANN shall lease the ship
to the Enterprise at a lease price that shall be cal-
culated on the basis of amortization of the acquisi-
tion cost of the ship to PANN and interest at the
rate of 10% per annum on the unamortized portion of
such cost outstanding from time to time. New ships
shall be amortized over not more than 15 years; used
ships shall be amortized over not more than 10 years.
Upon signing of the lease, the lessee shall pay to
PANN a one-time commitment fee of 1% of the value
of the ship on the basis of which the lease price is
calculated.  The lease price may be revised on termi-
nation or renewal of the lease to reflect the ship's
depreciated replacement cost.  The lease agreement
shall be substantially in accordance with the form
of lease agreement attached to the Development Agree-
ment with the Enterprise.
(b)  If the ship is rehabilitated by PANN, the ship shall,
upon completion of its rehabilitation, be leased back
to the Shipping Enterprise under a lease agreement
substantially in accordance with the form of lease
agreement attached to the Development Agreement with
the Enterprise. The total lease price shall be deter-
mined on the basis of the following:
(i) amortization of the cost of rehabilitation of
the ship; and
(ii) 10% per annum of the unamortized cost of
rehabilitation.
Upon signing of the lease, the lessee shall pay to PANN a
one-time commitment fee of 1% of the cost of rehabilitation
of the ship.  The lease period shall not exceed 5 years
after the date on which the rehabilitated ship is recom-
missioned to service. All obligations of the Shipping
Enterprise towards PANN pursuant to the lease agreement
shall be secured by a first mortgage on the ship.
April 1976



ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 1
P.T. PANN
Policy Statement Memorandum
1.   Management and Budgeting
Budget and review          -  The Dewan Komisaris at its quarterly meeting
prior to the commencement of each quarter
will give approval to the Direksi to execute
the functions stated in Art.9 C 1.1 (a), l(b)
of PANN's charter for the quarter in question
and this approval will be based on the annual
working program and budget approval by the
shareholders.
Quarterly review of budgeted performance each
quarter covering four prior quarters will be
carried out by Dewan and Direski.
- Submission of quarterly reports to World Bank
in agreed form will include details of pay-
ments due and receipts for each lease/sale.
Lease/sale terms           -  Sale/leasing terms and conditions to:
New Ships - Sale:
- minimum 10% cash payment paid
on delivery of the ship
- maximum terms of payments 15
years
- interest rate 10%
- 1% commitment fee (lump sum on
signing)
- 6 months of grace after delivery.
lease:
- no down payment is required
- lease hire to be paid quarterly
in advance
- maximum terms of lease 15 years
- interest rate 10%
- 1% commitment fee (lump sum
on signing)



ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 2
Used ships - Sale
- none to be acquired over 10
years old
- to be required 10% down pay-
ment on signing of the contract
and 20% on delivery in Indonesia
of the ship.
- maximum term of payment 10 years
- interest rate 10%
- 1% commitment fee (lump sum
on signing)
- 6 months grace after delivery.
lease:
- none to be acquired over 10
years old
- no down payment
- maximum term of payment 10 years
- interest rate 10%
- 1% commitment fee (lump sum
on signing)
- lease hire to be paid quarterly
in advance on delivery in
Indonesia.
Rehabilitation
- maximum rehabilitation costs
normally to be about 1/2 of
comparable used ship price
- no rehabilitation of ship of over
20 years of age
- interest rate to be included in
charter to be 10%
- 1% lump sum commitment fee of
rehabilitated cost on signing
- maximum term of lease to 5
years including up to 3 months
of grace after delivery.
Options to purchase
- all leases to be firm for the period of
the lease. The lessee has the option
to purchase the ship on payment of the
last month hire (on terms as stated
in the lease) provided the lessee
has fulfilled his obligations according
to the provision of that contract/
lease.



ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 3
Lease/sale documents
- all leases and sale contracts and
procurement documents to be prepared
in a standard form inn agreement
with Bank and submitted with applic-
ation for reimbursement.
Dual class for PANN's ships
- During the course of payment by lessee
or buyer on any ships in which Pann
has a beneficial interest, such ship will:
(a) New Ships  - when a new ship constructed at Indonesian
shipyard, be single class by Bureau
Klasifikasi Indonesia (BKI) as well as
conforming to all Indonesian Laws.
- when a new ship constructed at a
shipyard abroad, be either single
class by BKI, but supervised on
behalf of BKI by an internationally
recognized classification society
(new ships in Japan) or dual class
by BKI and an internationally re-
cognized classification society
(new ships in Norway) as well as
conforming to all Indonesian laws.
- be single class BKI (unless decided
differently by the Government) for
newly built ships as soon as the ship
is delivered to Indonesia.
(b) Used Ships - When a used ship, if classed by an
internationally recognized classifi-
cation society having a cooperation
agreement with BKI, be changed to dual
class with BKI as well as conforming to
all Indonesian laws.   Dual class will
be maintained until the ship passes its
next special survey. After that, class
may be single BKI.



ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 4
- when a used ship, if classed by a class-
ification society not having a coopera-
tion agreement with BKI, be changed into
a dual class with BKI and an interna-
tionally recognized classification
society having a cooperation agreement
with BKI as well as conforming to all
Indonesian laws. Dual class will be
maintained until the ship passes its
next special survey. After that, class
may be single BKI.
(c) Rehabiliated
Ships      - When a rehabilitated ship, be dual
classed by BKI and an internationally
recognized classification society as
well as conforming to all Indonesian
laws. Dual classification will be
maintained until the ship passes its
next special survey. After that class
may be single BKI.
Foreign Loans              - PANN will, should it be the beneficiary of
any foreign loan, provide the lender with a
copy of this policy statement and of the
World Bank project document and will not
make any agreement with such lender which
negates the provisions of the policy state-
ment and/or of the project documents.
Lease/sale                 - Leases or sales shall only be concluded with
where obligation              companies which are considered to be able
in arrears                   and willing to meet their foreseen financial
obligations to PANN.
Insurance of ships         - PANN will insure (or cause to be insured)
for "all-risk" at replacement cost, any ship
which it owns or in which it has a bene-
ficial interest.
- Such insurance on all ships in which PANN
has a beneficial interest will be adjusted
from time to time, in accordance with the
best business practice, to reflect the cost of
replacing ships should they become a total
loss. Suitable coverage for damage will
also be included in the policies.



ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 5
- Pann will solicit sources of "all-risk"
coverage and will continually attempt to
secure reduction of premiums by the use of
fleet policies, with reasonable deductibles,
and will, through national insurance compa-
nies, seek proposals from national, inter-
national and regional insurance companies in
order to select the best coverage at the
lowest cost.
- For this purpose an experienced insurance
executive will be hired by Pann.
Training                   - Pannn will seek to arrange for training of its
executives and operational staff by arrange-
ments with its shipbroker and its financial
adviser and with shipyard and classification
societies. It will draw up a comprehensive
training proposal for submission to the Bank
within six months of the loan being signed.
The intention is to develop adequate,
practical and formal training programs.
Technical assistance       - Pann, in consultation with its financial and
technical advisers will prepare a program of
technical assistance requirements covering
the project period, i.e. until the end of
1978, for discussion with the Bank and
other lenders. After agreement the program
will be put in hand in a timely manner. It
is expected that, in addition to training,
technical assistance may include technical
services, accounting services, and necessary
support equipment and material.
2.   Financial              -  PANN will not borrow without Dewan approval
Guideliunes               based on forecasts of PANN's cash flow, income
statement, and balance sheet which will be
designed to reflect, to the extent feasible, on
an annual and five-year basis, the sources and
uses of funds, the return on total capital and
on equity capital employed, the weighted average
borrowing rate, the working capital and reserves
for bad debts and the profit or loss incurred.
- Pann will not permit its debt to exceed 65% of
combined debt and equity.



ANNEX 7
Attachment 1
Page 6
- Pann will maintain a weighted average cost
of its debt such that, weighted together with
a 3% notional return on its equity, its total
costs of capital (equity plus debt) will not
exceed 7.7% of its total capital.
- PANN shall earn revenues sufficient to achieve
a minimum 3% rate of return on its equity.
- PANN will, for tax purposes, claim depre-
ciation on all assets at the maximum rate
allowable or at such a rate as to minimize
its tax liabilities.
- no dividends or return of capital will be
declared during the first five year of
operations. After that no dividends or
return of capital shall be declared except
after providing for debt repayment, for
adequate reserves for losses, and for any
increase in working capital appropriate in
view of the both then current costs of ships
and PANN's operating costs.
- all assets acquired shall be taken on the
books at the time of acquisition at
acquisition cost.
- Pann will base its leases or other time
payment contract in the first instance on
the acquisition cost of the ships.
- Mortgage interests of second parties will
be expressed on the mortgage deed.
April 1976



I'DONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
HIALF-YEAR PERIODS OF CALMDAR YEARS
1275      1976           1,77          127T          1)7)
::vent                    2        n  -2/2         2/2           2/2          2/2
'.  Agree:aent on Legal Docs.                 x
2.  Tech. Asst. to PA-IN, TORAD
(a) Fin. 5.v Tech. Advisors Retained         x
(b) Other, Legal, Accounting, etc.           x
3.  Tech. Asst. to Govt.
study                  iriplementation
(a) Revision of Ship Safety                     x-x    X_--------------
Regulations, IORAD
(b) 'ar-itime Training Center                   x---- x _---- i2e.tmentation  _____x
Study & Advisors
(c) Management Study of PM, VI
i) Starts                                x
ii) Report                                                 x
iii) Agree on Plan of Acticn                                x
iv) Start Plan of Action                                   x------  ipleentationx
(d) Econonic Study Starts, Ends.                x-----------x
L.  New & Used Ship Procurement,
Starts                           x-------------------------------------------------
.  Rehabilitation, Starts                        x--------------------------------------------------
6.  Scrapping, Starts                             x--------------------------------------------------
April 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Estimate of Economic Benefits
Replacement of Existing Tonnage
Benefits from replacing the obsolete existing ships with more
efficient ships would be the reduction in the operating cost and the increase
in the productivity of the ships. The unit benefits were estimated as
follows:
(a) Operating Cost Savings
The main categories of costs that vary with ships' age and state
of repair are maintenance (both floating repair and docking and running
repair), lubrication and consumption of fuel. Based on data supplied by
SEACOM and PELNI these costs were compared in Attachment 1 for three types
of ships - 20 year old ships, 10 year old ships and new ships. The per dwt
per operating day total of those costs are:
20 year old ships              Rp 265
10 year old ships             Rp 130
New ships                      Rp 78
The average number of operating days per year for different
ships are assumed to be as follows:
20 year old ships              180 days
10 year old ships              260 days
New ships                      330 days
Operating cost saving was calculated for the existing number
of commission days for those ships to be replaced, the additional commission
days for rehabilitated and used ships being taken into account in the
estimate of productivity increase. The rehabilitated and used ships will
halve the per dwt operating cost from Rp 265 per day to Rp 130. Multiplying
this by 180 days, the total annual operating cost saving per dwt is Rp 24,300.
(b) Productivity Increase
Productivity increase is calculated using estimated additional net
revenue per dwt (based on the existing tariff) as proxy. According to PELNI
data the typical RLS ship in reasonable repair seem to earn a gross revenue



ANNEX 9
Page 2
of Rp 744 per dwt a day on the basis of estimated 260 commission days (see
Attachment 2) and the average daily operating cost per dwt is Rp 334 (see
Attachment 3). This leaves a net revenue of Rp 410. Since we assume 260
commission days, the additional commission days after rehabilitation or
acquisition of used ships over the typical existing (20 year old) used ships
would be 80 days a year. By multiplying the net daily revenue per dwt of
Rp 410 by 80 days, we get Rp 32,800 which is the per dwt net revenue per
year due to rehabilitation and used ship purchase.
The total annual benefit of rehabilitation and used ship purchase
per dwt is therefore as follows:
Operating cost savings         Rp 24,300
Net additional revenue         Rp 32,800
Rp 57,100
The amount of annual benefit per dwt equals about 80% of the per dwt cost
of rehabilitation or about 20Z of the estimated acquisition price of one
dwt of used ships.
Net Increase in Tonnage
The benefits from the net increase in tonnage to be realized by
acquisition of new ships would be only the increase in net revenue which is
used as proxy for production increase. Similar to the case of used ships,
the new ships are expected to produce a net revenue of Rp 410 per dwt daily.
Multiplying Rp 410 by 330, the number of commission days a year, we get
Rp 135,300 which is the annual net revenue per dwt of new ships. The annual
net revenue so calculated is an equivalent of about 13.8% of the estimated
acquisition cost of new ships of Rp 984,000 per dwt.
April 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Average Annual Costs of Maintenance, Lubrication and Bunker
by Age and Size of Ships
(Rp. Millions)
20-Year Old Ships        10-Year Old Ships               New Ships
575    600  t 720        750 1,000  1,500        750   1,000   1,500  2,500
dwt    dwt    dwt        dwt    dwt   dwt        dwt    dwt      dwt    dit
Annual Costs of:
1.  Floating Repair and Docking          13.3   13.9   13.8       11.9   20.7   26.5       5.9    10.3    13.3   17.2
2.  Running Repair                        1.2    1.3    1.3        1.1    1.9    2.4        .9     1.5      2.0    2.5
3.  Lubrication                           1.7    1.9    2.1        1.8    2.9    3.8       1.0     2.1      2.7    3.1
4.  Bunker Oil                           11.5   13.3   15.2        9.7   13.6   17.5       9.7    13.6    17.5   25.3
Total               27.7   30.4   32.4       24.5   39.1   50.2    17.5    27.5    35.5   48.1
Per dwt Cost (Rp.1000)                      48.1   50.0   45.0       32.7   39.1   33.4    23;3    27.5    23.6   19.5
Weighted* Average
Per dwt Cost (Rp. '000)                          47.7                      33.8                        23.3
Average Operating Days Per Year                     180                       260                          300
Cost Per dwt Per Operating Day (Rp.)                265                       130                           78
* With the exception of 20-year old ships for which non-weighted average cost Js shown
Source:  SEACOM, PELNI, Bank staff.
April 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Revenue of Typical PELNI Ships
Per Commission
Number of      Size of                                                    Number of              Day Revenue
Ships         Ships        Annual Revenue        Per dwt Revenue        Commission               Per  dwt
Sampled         (dwt)         (Rp. Million)        (Rp. Thousand)            Days                   (M.)
Weighted
6          1,000           1,009.8                   168.3               260                     647        Average
744
5            750             886.9                   233.8               260                     899
Source: SEACOM, PELNI, Bank Staff
April 1976
'INsP
C..m



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL CF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Daily Operating Cost of PELNI Ships
(Rupiahs)
Ship Sizes
750              1,000             1,500                 2,500
Cost Category                            dwt               dwt               dwt                    dwt
Crew                                    55,246           65,625            80,869                 99,283
Ship Operation                         117,415          205,592           255,518                372,171
Port Fees                              120,000          132,000           138,000                188,000
Agency Fees                             13,750           16,275            23,410                 35.400
Total                   306,411          419,492           497,797                694,854
Per dwt                     408              419               332                    278
Weighted Average Per dwt
Daily Operating Cost
for all Ships                                                     334
Source: SEACOM, PELNI, Bank Staff.
April 1976
CF



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Indonesian Fleet by Category and Size Classes. 1974
50-250         251-1.000    1.001-3.000    3.001-7.000    7.001-1 .000   15.001-30.000    TOTAL
Total          Total           Total           Total           Total         Total           Total
NAME OF VESSEL     No.    Dwt.    No.    Dwt.    No. - Dwt.    No.    Dwt.    No.    Dwt.    No.   Dwt.    No.    Dwt
Ocean going
cargo vessels   -      -      -       -           2    3,891   20   162,891   34   345,375    1   15,450    57   527,607
Inter-island pass/
cargo vessels     9    2,509  217    125,837   98  188,069   16    67,863    5    43,888    -          -      345   428,166
Local inter-island
vessels         363   51,003   60       19,819    -     -           -       -       -           -      -      423    70,822
Tankers             12    2,240   33       21,150    8   14,163    7    25,552    2    17,062    1   23,340    63   103,507
Tug Boats            72    9,585    6       2,735    -     -        -      -        -      --             -       78    12,320
Fishing Boats       68    8,303   21       8,300    -      -        -      -        -      -       -      -       89    16,603
T 0 T A L          524   73,640  337    177,841  108  206S123   43   256,306   41   406,325    2   38,790 1,o55 1,159,025
Source: Directorate General of Sea 5ommunications
April 1)76



TABLE 2
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL CF A SECCND SHIPPING PROJECT
Shipping Acquisition and Rehabilitation Program
GIDI S~2ping  rogramAc3uired B  PANN                    Acquired By Private Compnes
(First Phase, 1974-19797             *An4S5 rrojec-i7       -Non-FANN)
A. New Ships
Class    Number    Total        Class    Number   Total    Class         Number      Total
750      15        11,250       750       13      9,750      750          2         1,500
1,000      23        23,000     1,000       21     21,000   1,000           2         2,000
1,500      13    .19,500        1,500       13     19,500      -            -          -
Total  51       53,750          Total  47      50,250           Total  4          3,500
B.  Used Ships
750       2         1,500       -         -        -         750          2         1,500
1,000      47        47,00'      1,000      41     41,000   1,000           6          6,000
1,500       4         6,000     1,500        4       6,000     -            -            _
2,500       2         5.000     2,500        2       5,000 - _                         _
Total  55       59,500           Total 47      52,000           Total  8          7,500
C". Rehabilitation
Total           54,500                         54.500
Grand Total        167.750                       156,750                             1.0ooo
April 1976



TABLE 3
INDCKESIA
APPRAISAL (F A SEC ND SHIYPING PROJECT
IBRD Fiscal Year                                              Cumulative Total
And Quarter Ending                                              Disbursement
1975/76
June 30, 1976                                                  0.2
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                            10.8
December 31, 1976                                             20.3
March 31, 1977                                                 28.5
June 30, 1977                                                 35.4
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                            42.4
December 31, 1977                                             48.3
March 31, 1978                                                49.5
June 30, 1978                                                 50.5
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                            51.2
December 31, 1978                                             51.9
March 31, 1979                                                52.6
June 30, 1979                                                 53.3
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                             53.8
December 31, 1979                                              54.0
April 1976



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL CF A SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
Alternative Projections of Freight Traffic
and Shipping Capacity Requirements
Assumed Annual
Growth Rate                     15.5%                                10%                                 7%
Freight     Shipping Capacity      Freight      Shipping Capacity      Freight      Shipping Capacity
Traffic   Needed (Thousand dwt)   Traffic   Needed (Thousand dwt)   Traffic   Needed (Thousand dwt)
(Millions      With Per dwt        (Millions       With Per dwt        (Millions       With Per dwt
of Tons)     Productivity of       of Tons)      Productivity of       of Tons)      Productivity of
17.7 Tons     15 Tons              17.7 'rons     15 Tons              17.7 Tons      15 Tons
1973 (Actual)   2.50         141           167      2.50         141          167       2.50        141           167
1974            2.89         163          193       2.75         155          183       2.68        151           179
1975            3.34         189           223      3.02         171          201       2.86         162          191
1976            3.85         218           257      3.33         188          222       3.06        173           2Oi
1977            4.45         251           297      3.66         207          241h      3.28        185           219
1978            5.14         291           343      4.03         228          269       3.51        198           234
1979            5.84         330           390      4.44         251          296       3.75        212           250
Source: LTFD Study, Bank staff.
April 1976



TABLR 5
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEC CD SHIPPING PROJECT
Passenger Traffic
P.N. PELNI           Other Companies            Total
Actual         1962           408.3                   N.A.                   NA.
1963           388.4                   N.A.                   N.A.
1964           343.3                   N.A.                   N.fi.
1965           266.3                   N.A.                   N.A.
1966           353.8                   N.A.                   N.A.
1967           221.6                   N.A.                   N.A.
1968           189.4                   N.A.                   N.A.
1969           220.1                   80.7                  301.8
1970           209.4                  147.4                  346.9
1971           227.2                  105.5                  332.7
1972           227.2                   93.3                  310.5
Estimated      1973                                                         365.0
1974                                                         432.0
Projected      1975                                                         508.o
1976                                                         600.0
1977                                                         710.0
1978                                                         838.0
1979                                                         976.0
Source: LTFD Study, Bank staff.
April 1976






ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF SEA COMMUNICATIONS
Director General
Adml. Haryono Nimpuno
Inspectorates                                                                                    Secretariat General
- Planning
- Organization and Method
- Personnel
- Finance
- Material
- Legal and International
DIRECTORATES
Shipping                      Marinv                     Navigation Aids               Coast Guard               Research and              Training                             Health
Traffic                       Safety                     Capt. V. Arun                  Kol. I Supardi           Development               J.H. Warula
L. Sapta Adli.                M. Wibono                                                                          Mr. J. Rustarndi          - Maritime Academies
- Upgrading
- Examining Board
Security                  Ports and Dredging           Shipyards
Kol. Jakarso              Ir. Boediardjo               Ir. Chatab Nuzwari
1    2     3    4      5    6      7    8    9
Maritime Districts
- Ports
- Navigational Aids
- Finance
- Health
World Bank-9677






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND SHIPPING PROJECT
CAUSE & EFFECT RELATIONSHIPS
IN SHIP OPERATIONS
C_uses - - ------_---                                                                                                                                               Effects
Poor Ship
Maintenance
-Long repair time
-Breakdown delays                          Low Saling
-Poor ship efficiency                         Tm
-Irregular scheduliig
| Competition    |
Competition                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deferred Maintenance
I                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Laid-up Vessels
_                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Breakdown Delays
-Bad service                                                                 o L                         Low                         Working                  Poor Ship Efficiency
-Irregular sailings                           Low                        Productivity               Nominal Profit                   Capital                  Dependency on Shippers
No marketing effort                      Load Factors                   Ratios (1I                 or Net Losses feficits                                   Supplier Credits
_                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~No Schedules
Working Capital
Loans Borrowing
-Inefficient route patterns
-Freight wars
-High capacity cost
CapitalHighClCapital
Debt & H.P.
Repayments
Cash -flIow 
F                 ~~~~~~Capital
L(2      __            Lack of                                                                                                                                  A 
Equity
Key: (If  Low productivity ratios are also due to inadequate ports, port facilities, and trained personnel.
(2) As a result of the lack of equity, companies resort to more debt, thereby repeating the cycle.
World Bank-9604(R)






SL96-lueS PPM                                                                             *laij pU2LSI-JalUI Jo0  sd!qS piepuelS pasodoJd
uOl gt'6      ' .............. . .1HOIZM0VWT
SlOU)j   L L .......... ............'........' ...' .........33dS   IV IHI
1J'D OSZ  b5'''........'.'.....''.'''''''''''''''' 'AllVdVD  31V3
'w OL.'. ''......... .. ....        ''' . '' .  '' .f     0 Hsnval
W 9L 9' .' --'''' .... ''''' '' - 33Uddn 01 H1d3G
uu 09s0t ...--. .... . ...  ... a13lnno            HIGV3UG
uw oz .. --                ' ' 'd'd N33MI38 H19N31
*w 08LS5...'...........'.'... .... ..........'IIV   J3AO  HI N31
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1,  ,                      I                 
uOI o99L              -         -   -  -    IH913ACM0V3
SlOU)     EL  . .. .........   .................... ... ..... (' 33 dS   lVI8l1
14'0 000'01 i ''''L ' .. ..... '.............A1I3VdVO 31V8
*Uu  8E't    ...''''' .................' ...' .......'. '''''''''''     I'''H E(nvua
.w 0             .tL ... .. .. . . - 03ddn 01 H1d3C
w OLZ .t .- .  .3Ilno HIOV3U8
*0 9 OO ........................'''''  .d'd N=--M133 HION31
.w OL'69............'...................'.... I-IV  83AO H1ON31
UO1 09S~~~~~~~~~.1HElI3MOV~~~~~~~~~~~0 
L+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -== - t- - - - - - -=-= m-S
|Eul OSEZ .................................... H9 13Ma V3G
SIOUi   .................... 33dS lVI8I
4':) 000'851 ........................................AllOVdVO 31V3
'U  89' .........................................................1HOnVUa
w  09. ..................................ND3U83ddn 01 H1d3G
.w OZ'.t''L'....................................3 nOn  HIaV3HS
w 09t'L................................. .d'd N33AM138 H19N31
OL 0L'6L.........................................IV  83AO  H19N31   SNOISN3WIa I1VdI3N18d
/!p~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ -L -==-  -r-  ---           r- =- - - -= -                f ---
133rOHd 9NIddIHS 0N033S I0 1VSIVUddV
VIS3NONI
D1-H






IBRD 11493
S  -IN   )0N        
nfl                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~Appraisal of Second Shipping Project
PHILIPPINES                                   Proposed Regular Liner Service Route Systems
A                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~oufh  Chmoa    Sea                    BRUNE/                                                                                                                             MAJOR PORTS
I           -mss,C  f-nm,'  J..a purts
Pronvin,ial b.uraais
~~~~~~~l.  I ii                                                 .,.tg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 
I BatE j  IA Wasn Kaliergoran                 JORPOSTA~      ~ ~       W                                                                         K,M.
5 Spcia SsnitnnJgtaiant   iSoetal  alaoes                                       dE-d.CaAa
~~ NotCh Soananena  25 SogAlt-Esen Salaa,esi  Cilsoap  A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'  OMBOAK04
IS SenhuL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~                vaS                       
an ola~~~~~~~~~~~~00 aadnAigaaC sartJ c
PROVINCES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,nAniCttOtrrnrnt t
I E.v J..       oplo 14is                                                                                                                               s                                 ta                                 an                  icrBaKaaAiSi.,r-gO



