                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 29923




                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-32200 TF-25581)

                                        ON A

                                   CREDIT/GRANT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

                                       FOR AN

                              EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT




                                   September 18, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective September 8, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Azerbaijan Manat (AZM)
                                 AZM 4,904 = US$ 1
                                       US$ 1 = AZM 4,904



                                     FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 -   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIS     Commonwealth of Independent States
ERP     Education Reform Project
ESDP    Education Sector Development Project
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IEP     Institute on Educational Problems
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE     Ministry of Education
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCD     Project Concept Document
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PISA    Programme for International Student Assessment
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PSR     Project Status Report
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
TEI     Teacher Education Institute
TRC     Teacher Resource Centers
TTI     Teacher Training Institute




                             Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director     Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
                             Sector Director    Charles C. Griffin
                            Sector Manager      Maureen McLaughlin
                             Task Manager:      Halil Dundar

                                AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
                             EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report (Summary)                                  32

Project ID: P057959                                                  Project Name: EDUC REF
Team Leader: Halil Dundar                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 18, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: EDUC REF                                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-32200; TF-25581
   Country/Department: AZERBAIJAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (62%); Central government administration
                            (14%); Primary education (12%); Secondary education (12%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/11/1998                                     Effective: 09/08/1999                09/08/1999
     Appraisal: 03/09/1999                                         MTR: 03/10/2001                  03/10/2001
      Approval: 05/24/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF AZERBAIJAN/Ministry of Education
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                          Ishrat Hussain
Sector Manager:                 Maureen McLaughlin                             James Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:             Halil Dundar                                   Philip O'Keefe and Halil Dundar
ICR Primary Author:             Pasi Sahlberg


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Demographic context: The population of Azerbaijan was over 8 million in 2002. The population growth
rate has slowed steadily. Average annual growth rates were 1.8 percent in 1970-1979 and then 1.5 percent
in 1979-1989. Between 1989 and 1999, the growth rate slowed to just 1.3 percent, and fell further to 0.8
percent in 2000-2002. Together with some net emigration, the declining population growth rate in the
1990s is attributable to a fall in the birth rate from 26.3 per 1,000 of the population in 1990 to 13.8 per
1,000 in 2001. More than 80 percent of the population is Muslim: this includes the Azeris, Georgians and
other groups such as Lezghins and Kurds. Most Azerbaijanis are Shia Muslims, but around 30 percent are
Sunni Muslims. Azeri is a Turkic language closely related to Turkish and more distantly to the Turkic
languages of Central Asia.

Educational context: Azerbaijan, like other countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS),
inherited a relatively well-developed educational system. However, since independence, the educational
system has been deprived of resources, and the general standard of education has visibly declined. Public
expenditure on education was only 3.5 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2001. The situation has
been further exacerbated by the emigration of many highly educated professionals. In addition, the Nagorno
Karabakh conflict, which led to the displacement of over one million people, also resulted in the loss of all
schools in that territory (excluding Nagorno Karabakh), amounting to about one-fifth of Azerbaijan's total
number of schools. The Law on Education of 1992 permits both state and private educational institutions,
but the latter are still undeveloped. By 2002, about 60 percent of the population over the age of 15 had
received at least the stipulated eight years of schooling, down from over 90 percent during the Soviet
period.

Azerbaijan has been struggling to retain the positive achievements of the past education system while
introducing education sector reforms appropriate to the needs of an independent democratic state and an
emerging market economy. During the Soviet era, all curricula were developed, standardized, and issued
from Moscow with little or no input from the local levels. The major problems concern the process by
which curricula are formulated due to the hiatus caused from the break-up of the Soviet Union, limited
adjustments in curricula and syllabi to reflect the needs of a market economy and democratic society,
overcrowding of the current curricula for general schools, and restricted funds for curriculum development
institutions to perform their functions. Furthermore, the authorities have had limited technical capacity for
curriculum development (in terms of the number, qualifications, and experience of staff), with no existing
curriculum developers specifically trained in this area.

The present teacher education system consists of three elements: pre-service education, in-service training
and re-training by gaining knowledge of a different subject field or while changing from another occupation
to become a teacher. The main problems in teacher education include: poor integration within and
duplication of functions among some of the institutions, narrowly specialized teacher education programs
for upper grades, lack of functional relationships with schools, inadequate funds for facilities, equipment,
books, and other essential teaching materials, and lack of exposure of staff in teacher education institutions
to modern teaching methods and teacher training delivery methods.




                                                     - 2 -

Azerbaijan shares the characteristic low student/teacher ratios of most CIS countries, with a ratio of 10:1
in general education. This compares to an Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) ratio of around 15:1 and far higher ratios in middle and low income countries. This is caused
mainly by the inherited policy of having single subject teachers in secondary (Grades 5-11) education, and
the decrease of a "full" teaching load from eighteen to only twelve hours per week. Despite falling real
wages and a drop in the birth rate, the number of education sector workers increased by more than 10
percent between 1992 and 1998 (though there are continuing problems with accurate measurement, due to
the frequent confusion between actual teachers and authorized teaching positions).

During the Soviet period, teachers were given little discretion as to what to teach and how to teach. One of
the main characteristics of teaching was the focus on learning facts rather than acquiring skills that allow
knowledge to be applied in various situations. Hence, methods of instruction in Azerbaijan are not based on
active and problem-based approaches of teaching which are preferred in many contemporary education
systems, but are typically rigid and authoritarian, with insufficient attention paid to the needs of individual
students. Even where there is a desire to move away from this model, administrators face lack of new
teaching resources and other professional development support to teachers on contemporary teaching
methods.

Project design and objectives: The Education Reform Project (ERP) was the first Bank-financed support
to Azerbaijan education sector development. The project supported the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
(August 27, 1996) objective of the need for "social policies that preserve Azerbaijan's human capital and
protect those vulnerable to changes that are sweeping the economy." In particular, it referred to the need to
develop a "more rationalized system for delivery of basic social services". An additional related CAS
objective was "improving the allocation efficiency of public resources". As the education sector accounts
for around 50 percent of total public sector employment currently, promoting more efficient training and
use of teachers as anticipated under the project is critical to realization of this objective.

The Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was designed to strengthen the policy and institutional framework
and experiment with new models within the education sector. The belief was that a LIL would provide the
analytical and implementation experience to consider a larger operation in the sector in the future.
Moreover, it was expected that the lessons from the LIL and the formal approval of the Government's
Education Reform Program together would provide a strong programmatic basis for such an intervention.

The overall development objective of the project was to improve the effectiveness of teaching and
learning in selected grades of general schools in Azerbaijan through: (i) supporting innovations in
curriculum content and the curriculum development process; (ii) piloting new teacher education content
(including new teaching methods) and delivery mechanisms; and (iii) evaluating the impact of project
interventions through monitoring and evaluation in teacher education institutions and pilot schools in order
to provide lessons for broader sectoral reform.

The project development objective was consistent with the Government's own education reform program
and also closely related to the Country Assistance Strategy of that time. However, the terminology (e.g.,
effectiveness, innovations) that was used to formulate that objective is not very clear and actually leads to
considerable difficulties in evaluating the project. Effectiveness of teaching and learning should be defined
through the intended outcomes of schooling, not using any general determinants. Two issues should be
noted at this point. First, the intended outcomes, i.e., educational goals of general education should be
established prior to intervention in order to be able to conduct effective teaching and learning practices. As
the content of teaching and learning was changing in the pilot schools, so were the intended outcomes. It
was assumed in the project that students will not only learn better but will also acquire different knowledge


                                                      - 3 -

and skills than their peers in non-pilot schools. Second, both baseline data on teachers' pedagogical
behavior and students' learning outcomes, and comparative data from non-pilot schools should be available
in order to judge how the effectiveness of teaching and learning has changed.

The project documentation is not specific in what exactly was to be improved. The main means that were
selected to lead to improved effectiveness of teaching and learning were curriculum reform and
development of related educational materials (for Grades 1, 2, 5 and 6), and professional in-service training
of teachers on new teaching methods and curriculum. In summary, the formulation of the project
development objective indicated the core areas to be improved within the education system, but this
formulation was not appropriate for a LIL. Instead of aiming at improved effectiveness, the project
development objective should have emphasized the learning and innovation nature of a LIL. For example,
the project development objective could have focused on improving the Ministry's (including regional and
local education administration) knowledge and skills to design, implement and monitor education sector
reforms.

Selecting a pilot approach in this LIL was a good choice. Including just twenty schools and seven teacher
training institutes from five rayons enabled more intensive and focused implementation that is a
requirement for improving effectiveness of teaching and learning in schools. In this sense, the project
provided an exceptional opportunity for the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the participating institutions
to learn about effective alternative arrangements in school development and educational change. However,
piloting could have been based on more than one approach in order to provide multiple sources of
information about what solutions seem to work in developing education. The key question in reviewing the
overall project is how much beneficiaries were able to learn through this project and what they will be
doing differently when the education reform will be scaled up in Azerbaijan.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the Education Reform Project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components: (1) Curriculum Development; (2) Teacher Education; and (3) Project
Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation. What follows is a brief description of these components.

Component 1. Curriculum Reform (US$1.5 million)

The project was implemented during the period of 4.5 years (instead of 3 as intended) and it was hence
agreed that curricula will not be completed for all grades in general school, though much of the support on
curricula for selected grades was relevant to all grades of general school (e.g. on curriculum development
organization; active learning methods). The project supported curriculum reform through the following
activities:

o   international and local consultant support on main areas of curriculum development, including
    syllabus, teaching methods, institutional issues, and assessment (including textbook development);
o   training workshops with local and international consultants for local curriculum developers and those
    training teacher trainers in new curriculum, a small number of fellowships (2-3) for Azerbaijani
    specialists to undertake studies abroad in curriculum development, and study tours to relevant countries
    in the region and Europe;
o   basic refurbishment for two curriculum development institutions;
o   equipment, materials and supplies for local curriculum developers to have access to resource materials
    on international and regional practices in curriculum development and reform;



                                                     - 4 -

o   printing of new syllabi and teachers guides for Grade 1 nationally and Grade 5 in pilot schools in the
    first year, with phased roll-out into higher grades thereafter; and
o   operating costs (salaries; utilities, etc.) of the curriculum development institutions participating in
    project-financed activities to be part of the Government contribution.

Component 2. Teacher Education and Pilot Schools (US$3.0 million)

This component had two sub-components:

Sub-component 2.1. Pilot teacher education (US$1.4 million). This component worked with seven
in-service Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs) in five pilot regions. The project supported capacity building
and reorientation of these selected institutions. This required development of new teacher training materials
in selected areas, and working with the MOE and pilot TTIs to strengthen their training capacity and
diversify provision of in-service training. The project focused on technical assistance on teacher training
and teaching methods development, training of teacher trainers, minor rehabilitation and refurbishment of
institutions, and financing of training materials, equipment, materials and supplies. This included an
evaluation of how various teacher training initiatives financed under the project affected teaching and
learning, both in pilot TTIs and in pilot schools.

Sub-component 2.2. Pilot Schools in Five Proposed Regions (US$1.6 million). Twenty pilot schools in five
pilot regions were selected in the areas where teacher training institutions are located to assess and evaluate
newly developed curricula and teaching methods for selected grades. The project financed teaching
materials (including textbooks, supplies, and other selected materials), equipment, training for both
teachers and administrators, and modest rehabilitation and refurbishment of pilot schools as part of the
improvement of the learning environment. In addition, the training and outreach activities aimed at
strengthening parent and community involvement in school operations.

The component included the following activities:

o   training of trainers through workshops, short courses, seminars, and study tours about new curricula
    and teaching methods, including non-TTI-based provision of training for teachers;
o   training of teachers and principals through seminars, workshops, and short courses about new curricula
    and teaching methods;
o   technical support to establish twinning arrangements between pilot teacher training institutes and pilot
    schools; and
o   support to pilot teacher training institutes to become teacher training resource centers in the selected
    rayon. In this respect, the support included textbooks, references, and other learning materials.

Component 3. Project Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.6 million)

This component had two sub-components:

Sub-component 3.1. Project Management (US$0.4 million). This component supported operations of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) during project life, including training, equipment and salaries. This
included support to PIU Director, PIU staff in financial management, procurement and administration, and
basic equipment needs. Project management was supported by international consultancies for project
advisory assistance (e.g., implementation specialist, financial management specialist, procurement
specialist, etc.). Furthermore, additional capacity development was offered to the staff of the MOE.




                                                      - 5 -

Sub-component 3.2. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.2 million). This sub-component was an integral
part of the project because of its learning and innovation aspects. For this reason, the project supported not
only regular monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the set of key performance indicators to monitor project
impact, but also several studies to evaluate the implementation of innovative elements. This sub-component
also financed several evaluation studies about the performance progress of the project, including Education
Cost and Finance Study, and Textbook Publishing and Distribution Policy Study. However, Azerbaijan's
planned participation in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) study, which focuses on developing
internationally comparable measures of student achievement, was not actualized.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no amendments to the original project components or the overall structure of the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
According to the available references and considering the country circumstances, the quality at entry of the
project was satisfactory. The project was prepared according to the Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
standards of the Bank. It was subject to normal peer review process and had political support of the
Government of Azerbaijan. The project design was clearly in line with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS 15948-AZ, dated August 27, 1996) and with the Government's Education Reform Program. Relevant
lessons from other International Development Association (IDA) Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs)
were studied during the project design. Social assessment and education management review were financed
by the Dutch Trust Fund and the implementation capacities were assessed through financing from a Policy
and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) grant. No baseline data for project performance
indicators were available at the start of the project implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The goal of the Education Reform Project was to
speed up the education sector development by having an impact on teaching and learning in selected pilot
schools and selected age groups of pupils in general education schools and to learn from those experiences
for putting the reform in a national scale through a larger project. The intended outcomes of this project
were strengthened policy and institutional frameworks and new knowledge through experimentation with
new models and ideas in developing the education system. Since the instrument used was a LIL, the project
goal was also to assess the impact of project interventions through continuous monitoring and evaluation of
the Teacher Training Institutions and the pilot schools.

Evaluating the achievement of the project objective and outputs should have two aspects: to what extent
were quantitative and qualitative outputs reached as a result of the interventions? Furthermore, it is
necessary to note that there were practically no sector studies available prior to this project and the
Ministry of Education is a first time borrower, so building project management capacities was one
important aspect of the project. The overall rating of the achievement of the project development objective
depends on how these different aspects of the project are balanced and how they compensate each other as
the education reform is moving forward in Azerbaijan.

Several points need to be made here. First, the ERP was designed as a three-year intervention to strengthen
the foundation for future lending to the sector. However, due to ineffective project management and the lack
of understanding of the procedures, the MOE spent about a year selecting the consultant (to provide
technical assistance to curriculum reform) who eventually started to work in October 2000. After this



                                                       - 6 -

recruitment and re-arranging of project management, the project implementation commenced. Second,
being a LIL, this project needs to be looked at from the point of view of the main purposes of that
particular intervention. The project design correctly focuses on two main areas of improving the quality of
teaching and learning, namely curriculum and teacher development in selected grades and schools. The
project also had a component on project management, and monitoring and evaluation of the
experimentation in the pilot schools and institutions. The third component is therefore critical regarding the
learning and innovation aspect of the entire project.

In general, the ERP had a positive impact on the education sector development in Azerbaijan. During the
visits to the pilot schools and institutions, it became obvious that teachers and pupils had gained a lot from
in-service training and new curriculum materials that were provided under the project. Moreover, the
general attitudes towards education reform were positive in two ways. First, there seemed to be a wide
recognition of the need for changing education, not only in terms of structures and regulations but more
fundamentally concerning what goes on in schools and classrooms. The awareness of the global trends in
schooling, including active models of teaching and learning, alternative methods of assessment, school level
improvement and school management, has also been consolidated in the Ministry of Education and its
affiliated institutions. Second, the Ministry of Education has considerably better knowledge and skills today
to steer and manage the ongoing sector reform after the learning period during the ERP. There seems to be
a good understanding of the need for strategic thinking and monitoring of the implemented policies. The
headmasters in the pilot schools recognized the importance of helping teachers in their schools to overcome
the anxiety related to moving from traditional teaching to more interactive modes of instruction. Finally,
there is a broader pool of experts now within the education system who are available for education reform
work and advising schools how to cope with the existing expectations of renewal.

Pilot approach to education reform is often criticized as a failing strategy to bring about sustainable
improvement in education. Moreover, piloting sometimes has unexpected consequences within the system.
The case of the ERP in Azerbaijan is no exception, and a remark needs to be made here since this was not
among the issues under section Sustainability and Risks in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The
development objective of this project generates a question: Are the pupils in pilot schools that use renewed
curriculum, better facilities and where teachers have been retrained, learning better compared to pupils in
other schools? The follow-up question is: What other consequences has participation in the pilot had to the
participating schools? All the schools visited (six pilot schools) shared the same development: as the
curriculum, facilities and teachers teaching capacities improved, the number of enrollments in these schools
increased respectively. In some schools, as much as 30 percent (in one school from 1,800 to 2,500) due to
new legislation that provides parents with free school choice. At the same time, the net enrollments have
been declining during the past decade, which indicates a dramatic drop in number of pupils in other
schools. In other words, the pilot schools are, for obvious reasons, attracting certain families from other
schools' catchment areas. Together with increasing class sizes and school sizes, this has also had a positive
impact on student performance and achievement based on teachers' experiences (not always objective
evidence). However, it may be argued that the improved learning outcomes are due to biased intake which
favors pupils from the better-off families.

Overall, the conclusion of this report is that despite some shortcomings in terms of reaching the
development objective, there was a satisfactory impact of the project in the education sector and its ongoing
reform in Azerbaijan. Most of the quantitative targets (teachers and experts trained, schools rehabilitated,
new syllabi designed) were achieved or exceeded. However, due to lack of reliable data, there is not enough
evidence that the project objectives, as they are described in the PAD, were fully achieved. The project was
able to produce new thinking as well as some new practices in the Ministry, pilot institutions and schools,
but it partially failed to benefit from the initial idea of a LIL: to have recorded evidence of the advantages


                                                       - 7 -

or disadvantages of selected education improvement approaches to improving the quality of teaching and
learning. As noted earlier, the concept of improved effectiveness of teaching and learning is complicated
and this project provided only anecdotal evidence of improved effectiveness in schools. The key problem in
judging the achievement of project objectives is that there is no data on which this judgement could be
based. Indicatively, the Monitoring and Evaluation Study (2004) and Final Report on Curriculum
Development, Preparation of Educational Materials and Student Assessment Consultancy (2003) carried
out by an external consultant indicated that there was no significant difference in student achievement
between the pilot schools and non-pilot schools after the interventions (although it should be noted that this
was the first national assessment in Azerbaijan and was conducted more as a trial than as an actual
assessment) nor improved parent and community participation and satisfaction in pilot schools. However,
this project is a good example of the complex nature of designing education reforms - often the most
important outcomes of these reforms are different than those initially expected.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The main emphasis during the implementation of the ERP was on the curriculum reform and related teacher
in-service training for teachers in pilot schools. The third project component (Project Management, and
Monitoring and Evaluation) was only partially implemented regarding monitoring and evaluation, although
this was regarded as a crucial element of the LIL.

1. Curriculum Reform (Appraisal estimate US$1.2 million; Actual US$1.32 million) - Unsatisfactory

The intended implementation of this project component was jeopardized by the unsuccessful selection (the
contract was signed but soon termonated due to unacceptable performance) of a consultant who was
supposed to assist the MOE and provide technical assistance to the Working Groups and curriculum
specialists in Azerbaijan. In other words, nothing significant happened under this component before 2001,
except completed civil works in pilot institutions. The Ministry of Education tried hard to cope with the
situation without external help and established Working Groups that drafted new syllabi for music and
drawing, Azeri language for Grades 1-2, and Azeri language and literature, mathematics and informatics,
history, English, music and drawing, and Russian language (in Russian schools) for Grades 5-6. The draft
versions of these new syllabi were delivered to the pilot schools in August 2001. It is obvious that the
quality of these pilot curricula was not what was expected when the project was designed. However, the
MOE, together with the regional and local (rayon) education specialists, analyzed the experiences in the
pilot schools and discussed them in the workshops and meetings during 2002.

New curriculum (syllabi). A new consultant was hired to provide technical assistance to this component in
January 2003. As a result, the consultant and its local counterparts prepared the concept of the framework
curriculum for general education, supported the further development of Azeri language and mathematics
curriculum for Grades 5 and 10, and prepared and conducted the small-scale national student assessment in
eight pilot schools and twelve non-pilot schools. In addition, this consultant provided professional
development to teachers, trainers and education authorities in the workshops and seminars.

This component was supposed to experiment with innovations in curriculum content and curriculum
development process and learn from those experiences in order to put the curriculum reform on a national
scale in the proposed follow-up project. Due to unsuccessful performance of the initially selected consultant
and weak consultant management, this component lagged behind in implementing the activities that would
have enabled expected experimentation of curriculum innovations and delivery of intended outcomes. Most
of the activities related to renewing curriculum took place during the last year of the project, and therefore
the actual piloting aspect remained weak. Actually, this component of the project was not able to provide
any significant lessons for the nation-wide reform of national curriculum, except for the conceptual



                                                    - 8 -

framework for curriculum development. Visits to pilot schools gave the impression, expressed also by some
MOE experts, that teachers appreciated the new facilities, in-service training and pedagogic guidebooks
but, at the same time, emphasized that the real curriculum change requires also new learning materials for
pupils. Ideas of interactive learning methods discussed during in-service training sessions were far more
often referred to by teachers than the actual new curriculum as primary outcomes of the project.

Capacity building. Although this component failed to achieve its main objectives, it has had some
significant positive impact on reform-related issues in Azerbaijan that deserve specific mention here. First,
as a result of this component, the concept of 'curriculum' is beginning to be rooted in pedagogical and
educational development discourse in Azerbaijan. It is well-known that during the Soviet era, curriculum
was not a concept used in this context. Now, however, even in the pilot schools, the principals spoke about
the need for 'curriculum development' and, in the MOE, the officials referred to 'curriculum reform' as one
key means of transforming education to meet the needs of modern society. Second, through the emphasis
on pupil-centered curriculum and respective pedagogics, the attitudes of teachers in pilot schools are
changing in favor of active participation of their pupils instead of traditional presentation-recitation mode
of classroom behavior. Although there is no evidence yet in Azerbaijan that what was piloted during the
project would make a difference in terms of effectiveness of teaching and learning, teachers who were
engaged in the new curriculum process tend to believe that there will be a change in outcomes of schooling.
Third, this component convinced the MOE and other reformers of education that curriculum reform alone,
regardless of how well it is designed, would not do much unless pupils have new learning materials and
schools are equipped with appropriate facilities to promote intended new pedagogical patterns of thinking
and acting. These and other lessons from the project are important indeed although they were not recorded
as the intended outcomes of this component.

2. Teacher Training and Pilot Schools (Appraisal estimate US$3.2 million; Actual US$3.2 million) -
Satisfactory

In this component, teacher training refers to in-service training of teachers. Teacher Training Institutes
(TTI) that were the pilot institutes (total of seven institutes) offer in-service training to teachers. The goal
of this component was to pilot new teacher education content (including new teaching methods) and
delivery mechanisms in order to improve the effectiveness of teaching and learning in pilot schools. As in
Component 1, this component also suffered significantly due to delayed technical assistance that became
available only in February 2003, when the last months of the planned project implementation were at hand.

For the purposes of piloting new teacher training ideas, twenty pilot schools and seven TTIs were selected
from five regions. Logically, this second component is interconnected to the first. The content of teacher
training was therefore related to new curriculum, student assessment and especially to the methods of
teaching that were reflected by the renewed syllabi and goals of teaching.

Capacity building. There were two waves of training of trainers and teachers on active and interactive
teaching methods. The first wave in 2000-2002 was mainly arranged internally without support from
consultants. Through the workshops and seminars, 731 teachers from pilot schools (Grades 1-6) and 110
methodologists from the TTIs were trained. It was assumed that some of the trained teachers and teacher
trainers would later be engaged in training other teachers. Based on the estimates done by the MOE, the
number of willing and able trainers from this population is 20-25 percent. The second wave occurred in
May - September 2003, when an external consultant was assigned to strengthen the training provided
during the first wave. This trainers training focused on modern teaching and learning methods and reached
128 persons from pilot regions. As a result, Azerbaijan has a pool of teacher trainers with awareness,
knowledge and initial skills to work with other teachers in providing them with training on modern teaching


                                                      - 9 -

and learning methods.

The impact of the traning provided was clearly visible in pilot schools and TTIs. The concept of active and
interactive teaching and learning was spelled out during all visits. Discussions with pupils and students
were convincing that these ideas were also brought to the classrooms. Interestingly also, students who were
much older than the target population in this project were able to describe the features and their personal
experiences with new teaching and learning methods. However, it is possible that the expressed enthusiasm
regarding the positive impact of these modern teaching methods will remain rather limited because there
was no evidence that the new pedagogical practices were presented in any wider context or conceptual
framework. Based on the contemporary conceptions of effective in-service training of teachers, it is easy to
argue that what was implemented within this component does not promise any sustainable or more general
improvement in teacher effectiveness or student achievement since what has been offered consists of rather
conventional solutions towards quick fixes in teachers' teaching skills rather than permanent change of their
beliefs and behaviors.

Institutional development. One positive impact of this component was the realization of more
demand-driven provision of in-service training to teachers. Trainers in the TTIs were trained on how to
conduct needs assessment analyses and how to develop and redesign training programs based on the actual
needs of teachers. Most of the TTIs changed their way of thinking as well as their actual training curricula
as a result of this component. One intention was to establish twinning relations between pilot schools and
the TTIs. Since the creation of Teacher Resource Centres (TRC) within the TTIs was not properly
actualized, truly operational partnerships between pilot schools and TTIs never really came to exist. There
was an opinion that these TRCs already exist, which is true in theory, but according to teachers, they are
not useful, as they have outdated literature and limited resources, for alternative modes of teaching. One of
the most visible and widely recognized inputs was the strengthening of educational facilities and equipment
in pilot schools and pilot Teacher Training Institutes.

3. Project Management, and Monitoring and Evaluation (Appraisal estimate US$0.6 million; Actual
US$0.76 million) - Satisfactory

The objective of this component was to set up a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), hire necessary staff for
that Unit, provide adequate training to the staff, and coordinate the overall monitoring and evaluation of the
project implementation. In this respect, the component needs to be analyzed in two parts: project
management (Appraisal estimate US$0.4 million) and monitoring and evaluation (Appraisal estimate
US$0.2 million).

Project management. The overall output of project management was satisfactory. It is necessary to note
that at the beginning of the project (1999-2001), very little progress was made and output was highly
unsatisfactory. Only after reorganization of the PIU management (in January 2001), the implementation of
the project activities proceeded as planned. The project was then managed by a strong PIU director and
supported by a committed Minister and his senior staff that brought the project back to track after great
frustration in the early phase of the project. Since then, there has been a close and dynamic relationship
between the PIU and the MOE, and also mutual trust that has enabled flexibility during the course of
project implementation. The PIU director has been very successful in hiring consultants for the technical
assistance needed for the first two components of the project. Moreover, he managed to recruit local
experts who believed in the project and had the right knowledge and skills to carry out their assignments
effectively. Most of the achievements in this project took place after the beginning of 2002.




                                                     - 10 -

Monitoring and evaluation. The overall output of this sub-component was unsatisfactory. First of all,
monitoring and evaluation is a principal tool in a LIL (or any learning-oriented intervention) in order to
understand the realities of reforming education under selected piloting (experimental) settings. In this
project, monitoring and evaluation focused solely on quantitative performance as determined by the project
performance indicators; in other words, it was limited to routine monitoring and evaluation as part of
typical project management. This implies that the learning aspect of the LIL was not properly utilized.
Second, no baseline data was collected to provide even tentative indications of the effects of selected
innovations to teaching and learning. In short, it is impossible to say anything ex post facto on how
teachers' thinking and skills have changed in terms of new pedagogical approaches introduced during the
project, or whether pupils are actually learning more or better in pilot schools after active/interactive
teaching methods have been used by their teachers. Third, technical assistance to improve monitoring and
evaluation within the MOE was made available only at the very end of the project implementation. The idea
of enhancing respective knowledge and skills in the MOE in tandem with training and on-the-job learning
was therefore mostly missing. A total of six sector studies were conducted and completed: Textbook
Publishing and Distribution (2000), Education Cost and Financing Review (2002), Parent and Community
Mobilization (2002), Teacher Evaluation and Professional Development (2002), Azerbaijan Education
Reform Project - Monitoring and Evaluation (2003) and Monitoring and Evaluation Study (2004).
Azerbaijan did not participate in PISA 2003 due to financial reasons.

The meaning and importance of the monitoring and evaluation sub-component in a project like ERP should
have been much more carefully emphasized and operationalized from the very beginning. Project
supervision and technical assistance should have played key roles in designing and implementing necessary
and relevant monitoring and evaluation activities. This did not happen in the ERP. According to the MOE,
what was supposed to be done under this component was realized too late when basically nothing could be
done.

Financial Management. The overall project financial management was satisfactory. One positive aspect
was the PIUs attempt to comply with both financial and audit covenants by maintaining adequate financial
management systems - including staffing, accounting and financial reporting systems, internal controls and
auditing arrangements. Quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual audit reports were submitted to
the Bank on time, and auditors recommendations on strengthening internal controls that were identified
during the course of conducting the audits adhered to. Although the Project experienced Credit
disbursements delays during the first year of implementation due to procurement process, overall
disbursement progress was satisfactory. Total disbursements of IDA Credit 3220-AZ was
US$4,825,596.72 and PHRD Grant TF 25581 was US$288,909.44.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Analysis of the pre-project situation in the education sector in Azerbaijan and comparing it to the
post-project implementation shows that the relatively high cost of experimenting curriculum and teacher
training innovations, as far as eventual results are concerned, will probably pay off in the long term as the
follow-up project will be fully under implementation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for the Education Reform Project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project has been moderate in the project environment and
within the education community. Pilot institutions (schools and TTIs) have gained not only from
participating in various in-service training sessions but also from their internal discussions as part of a



                                                     - 11 -

small network of changing schools. Wide-spread recognition of a need to change the ways in which schools
function was common in all pilot institutions. This attitude change is a crucial element of institutional
transformation because it constitutes the core of what is called the culture of schools. Moreover, together
with these new patterns of thinking about teaching and learning, there is also a much better understanding
today in the pilot schools and TTIs of what needs to be done to get there. Similarly, to TTIs in their shift to
mapping teachers' training needs and expectations, teachers are also looking more at their pupils in terms of
what they think and expect from school. This cultural change in pilot institutions is perhaps the most
important single development impact of the project in its environment.

Based on the technical advice delivered through the PHRD grant during the project preparation, the
Government reorganized the structure of some key education institutions. On June 2000, a Presidential
Decree merged the Pedagogical Research Center and the Methodological Center under the Institute on
Educational Problems (IEP). The Government approved the institutional structure of the IEP in February
2001, and the hiring of the intended qualified staff was rather slow, which affected the expected operations
of the IEP in the project. Given that the IEP is one of the pilot institutions supported under the project, this
institution was also to receive development and capacity building support through the project. Although the
actual establishment of the IEP is an asset in itself to the education system, the institutional capacity of the
IEP to contribute to the progress of education reform in Azerbaijan remains weak. The IEP is responsible
for curriculum development, student assessment, development and review of textbooks and learning
materials, and educational research.

The project also contributed positively to conceptualizing, designing and preparing the follow-up project,
Education Sector Development Project (ESDP). More comprehensive basis for managing education project
and education reforms in general was established. The MOE now has better capacity to truly lead the
reform and be more independent in implementing the ESDP, compared to the situation in the beginning of
the ERP. The improved capacity of the MOE to cooperate with the Bank and other international agencies
should also be emphasized. The project also provided equipment and limited training to the MOE's
departments of Economics and General Education to collect and analyze the key performance indicators for
the project.

This project has clearly had a positive impact in the MOE. The Minister and his senior staff are convinced
now that developing the education system to perform better in terms of quality and effectiveness benefits
from active international cooperation. Good examples and lessons learned in other education systems find
much softer soil today in Azerbaijan compared to the pre-ERP era. Through study visits, international
training programs, visiting consultants and the Bank supervision, the MOE has received continuous inputs
of global ideas that may turn out to be useful in the ongoing education sector reform. This project has also
catalyzed thinking on the overall goals of education as a result of good experiences with new teaching
methods, increased focus on educational assessment and changes in school curricula. Teachers and also
pupils and parents are beginning to have a stronger voice regarding how schools should be developed. The
MOE is also clearly recognizing the necessity of investing in a system that would help in evaluating
education outcomes as crucial element of the overall monitoring of the education system.

It is, however, important to realize that this project included only twenty schools and seven TTIs. The big
issue is how these positive results of the ERP can be disseminated to all schools in every part of
Azerbaijan. Although some pilot schools have provided training to their neighboring schools, it is fair to
say that the development impact in the level of schools and teachers has been minimal. Furthermore, this
project does not provide advice on whether what has worked in pilot schools will work in other schools as
well. As a conclusion, the LIL has helped to introduce the education reforms needed in Azerbaijan and
showed that some change is possible with enthusiastic teachers and school directors. It has also proven that


                                                     - 12 -

if teachers receive appropriate help and resources, they, together with their pupils, will react positively and
actually find these new ideas beneficial to their work.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In general, the Government (Ministry of Education) showed commitment to the project purpose and
objectives. The project became effective on time. Short preparation time, lack of sector work and
inexperienced borrower reduced the active participation of the MOE in project preparation. Project
implementation suffered from inexperienced project management in the beginning (three PIU Directors
were replaced) and as a consequence, unsuccessful selection of a consultant who was not able to deliver
what was expected. This caused considerable delay in implementation. The first year of the project focused
on the selection of the consultants and procurement of goods and works. In reality, very little was done in
curriculum development or teacher training by mid-2001. According to the available records, the project
implementation actually started in the beginning of 2002 (until then the Project Status Report [PSR] rating
was unsatisfactory). It may be argued that the Government should have selected the initial consultant more
carefully, being in charge of selecting the consultant, should have been more careful in finding out the real
capacity of the winning consultant. However, it is extremely difficult to predict in advance whether a
competitively selected consultant will be able to deliver or not, especially for first time borrowers from the
Bank. On the other hand, the lenthy selection process (in this case, it took about one year to see the selected
consultant for the first time!) was partly due to the current procurement procedures set by the Bank.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
This project was implemented under a relatively strict centralized planning and implementation scheme
although the local education authorities and individual schools had new areas of responsibilities due to the
first waves of decentralization in the public sector. The positive factor that has had significant impact on
project implementation and outcomes described earlier is the continuous and strong support by the Minister
and his senior colleagues to the project. The MOE has also used media effectively in communicating to the
people about the education reform and the project activities.

The main negative factors subject to Government control affecting implementation were the lack of an
action plan for the Education Reform Program, delayed institutional reform regarding the Institute on
Educational Problems (IEP), and weak coherence between the project activities and the overall education
sector reform. Lack of competent education development staff often led to ad hoc solutions and
uncoordinated reform efforts, especially in curriculum development and teacher training that often affected
the activities implemented under the ERP. The merger of the two previous institutes to IEP was also done
without a strategic or operational plan, institutional analysis or management review that would have guided
the organizational reform (although such review and a seminar were provided through the Dutch Trust
Fund by external consultants). Since the organizational structure, staffing and operational functions
remained undefined for almost a year, very little institutional development or support to the project
implementation occurred.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ERP was the first IDA-financed investment credit in the education sector in Azerbaijan and, hence,
was a valuable learning experience for the Government. After relatively smooth project preparation, both
the Bank and the Government faced considerable challenges that accumulated during the first half
(September 1999 - December 2001) of the project implementation. In the PAD, the Bank team forecasted
some of the probable risks: lack of implementation capacity, weak practices in project management, and the
project being too complex for a first-time borrower. Most of the constraints were related to the
implementation agency and its affiliates (pilot TTIs).


                                                      - 13 -

The major problems in this project were related to delays in implementation. Analyzing the documentation
during the course of the implementation, several factors can be identified. First, project management was
the weak point from the very beginning of the project. After sixteen months of project implementation, the
PIU Director was replaced and project management begun to gradually improve. Second, procurement
capacity also remained weak until the latter part of project implementation and this had a negative effect on
overall implementation and outcomes. The process of consultant selection and procurement of teaching and
learning materials to pilot schools and TTIs was slow, leading to delays in receiving technical assistance
and shortages in adequate materials in schools. A misprocurement issue that occurred in 2000-2001 was
one indication of the complexity and related consequences of procurement, although it did not directly
affect implementation. Third, lack of coordination of implementation activities between the PIU and the
other implementing agencies (IEP and the TTIs) eventually led to the PIU Director becoming the
coordinator general of practically all project activities. During most of the implementation period, the IEP
and the seven TTIs did not have an agreed clear implementation plan that would have encouraged these
institutions to take the lead and coordinate the implementation of the Teacher Training component. The
project implementation was extended twice (until 31 March 2004) to be able to complete all planned
activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Project was implemented between September 9, 1999 and March 31, 2004. It was approved for an
amount of US$5.5 million of which US$5.0 million was provided by IDA and US$500,000 was provided
by the Government. The planned project budget was very accurate, with financing totalling US$5.28
million. The counterpart funding from the Government was US$448,000 and credit disbursement was
US$4.8 million.

Table 1. The Education Reform Project budget and actual disbursements

           Component                   Allocation       Percentage of      Actual         Percentage of
                                        (US$m)              Total       Disbursements       Allocation
1. Curriculum reform                       1.20              21.8            1.32              110
2. Teacher training                        3.20              58.2            3.20              100
3. Monitoring and evaluation                0.6              10.9            0.76             126.6
Contingencies                               0.5               9.1
TOTAL                                       5.5              100             5.28              96.0


The total cost of project preparation, supervision and completion was costly, as Annex 4 indicates.
Disbursements were timely while the project was in full operation. All civil works were completed during
the first year and a half of the project. There were delays in textbook procurement and hiring of the external
consultant after first unsuccessful procurement.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The key purpose of the pilot approach in education is to test a selected approach or various models that
would provide potential means to replicate the intended reforms on a national scale. If sustainability in this
section means the probability of maintaining the achievements generated or expected to be generated in
relation to its objective over the life of the project within the Government budget, the intended outcomes of
the ERP are likely to be sustained. However, the outcomes achieved in this project required approximately
US$100.0 investment per unit (school or TTI) in rehabilitation, improved facilities and equipment, and



                                                       - 14 -

training of teachers in pilot schools was expensive during the ERP. Given these costs, it would be difficult
to multiply within the forecasted government budgets the reform efforts of the ERP in all or even most of
the schools in Azerbaijan which has 4,450 schools and 160,000 teachers within the system.

The ERP was able to train and prepare a pool of local trainers in the TTIs and in the pilot schools, many of
whom will be able to work as trainers during the ESDP. This will bring the cost of teacher training down
but is also a factor that will affect the effectiveness of this training. Unfortunately, due to the limited scope
of project design, the ERP was not able to produce any further information on various options, such as
low-cost/high-impact teacher development and school improvement models. For political and equity
reasons, the MOE has to somehow include all schools in the ESDP as beneficiaries. There is a risk,
therefore, that teachers and schools will receive what the pilot schools did in the ERP, but in much smaller
and less-intensive scale. There is a lot of evidence in other projects and in research on school development
about the ineffectiveness of this type of effort.

Finally, the initial review and evaluation of the impact of the ERP on effectiveness of teaching and learning
does not provide any evidence that the quality of pupils' learning in pilot schools has improved. According
to the external consultant's study (2003) that was carried out under the ERP, the first external student
assessment in Grade 5 mathematics and Azeri language achievement did not find significant differences
between the pilot schools and non-pilot schools. There may be various reasons why the ERP interventions
did not have visible impact on learning, although many teachers and their pupils warmly welcomed the new
pedagogical ideas delivered through the ERP. Hence, the evidence from the ERP experience does not
support repeating the same efforts or models of teacher training and curriculum to improve the quality of
teaching and learning.

Despite generally low expectations of overall sustainability of the selected reform approaches, there are
several themes that will certainly be sustained by the Government, donors, or community level support. The
commitment to bring about the changes in curriculum, including both content and models of teaching and
learning, will be continued one way or the other. The follow-up ESDP will also provide significant
value-added to this process. The recognition of the importance of better monitoring and evaluation of the
education system performance will also be sustained and probably will receive even more attention from the
Government as well as from the stakeholders in the near future.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Education Sector Development Project (ESDP) was designed towards the end of the ERP
implementation and was actually launched during the last months of ERP effectiveness. Some of the
successful aspects and good experiences of the ERP have been scaled up or modified to match with general
dissemination (teaching methods training, student assessment). Some of the issues that have been raised in
this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) were not available when the ESDP was prepared. However,
there will be occasions when these issues can be discussed during the supervision of the ESDP, especially
as the PIU will continue to be the key coordinating unit for the implementation of the EDSP. This also
means that the project management capacities developed during the ERP are more likely to sustain under
the ESDP.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall lending performance was unsatisfactory. The identification of the ERP was done in
coherence with the MOE's education sector reform priorities that were reflected in the Education Sector
Strategy that was drafted during the project preparation. The Government saw the ERP an integral element


                                                      - 15 -

in the overall implementation strategy of the education sector development plan. The project supported the
CAS (1996) objective of the "need for social policies that preserve Azerbaijan's human capital and protect
those vulnerable to changes that are sweeping the economy." In particular, the CAS referred to the "need to
develop a more rationalized system for delivery of basic social services." The ERP also supported the next
CAS (1999) and further development of the education system by providing advice on curriculum reforms
and teacher training programs. There was sufficient stakeholder participation during the project preparation
and the Government demonstrated a high commitment to implementing its reform agenda. The project team
took into account the relevant issues in project design at the time of preparation.

Based on the situation analysis at the time of identification, the LIL was considered an appropriate lending
instrument. The project team envisaged that a LIL would provide the framework for strengthening the
policy and institutional framework and experimenting with new models within the sector. Afterwards, as
the implementation and related outcomes of the project are analyzed, one wonders if the main rationale of a
LIL was properly utilized. The learning aspect of the ERP was rather unfocused, touching mainly on
capacity building within the PIU and in the pilot schools and TTIs. In terms of innovations, the ERP did
not experiment with any really new teacher training arrangements or curriculum approaches. Therefore, it
appears that the intended LIL was implemented as a small Specific Investment Loan (SIL), with the
specific goal to change some core areas in the education system rather than to learn what would work and
how the proven impact could be put onto a national scale to benefit all schools. Although this LIL had
several positive impacts (of which some were among those unexpected), it is not clear to what extent the
MOE understood the primary logic and purpose of the selected lending instrument.

Another remark related to the project design concerns the level of complexity of the designed project.
Education reforms are challenges to any government and, for the first-time borrower, partnership with the
Bank in education development is a double-challenge. The project team quite correctly reflected in the PAD
risk analysis that the complexity of the project may become an obstacle for the borrower. Therefore, a
roadmap for education reform in general and curriculum development, in particular, could have been made
more specific. Most complications occurred in procurement, coordination of teacher training and
curriculum development activities, and establishing ownership-driven relationship with the consultants.
None of these issues were appropriately predicted during the project design and preventive measures were
therefore not sufficiently mobilized. It may be argued that the ERP design should have had stronger
emphasis on management and leadership in general from the beginning of the project in order to create
self-correction capacity within the PIU and the MOE, to indicate where the potential problems might be
encountered.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the ERP was satisfactory. The project was supervised throughout the project
implementation by means of semi-annual visits and more frequent assistance through telephone and
electronic mail. The main focus of the supervision was on the progress in implementing the project
components, identification of possible problems and general project management issues. The project
implementation progress was adequately and timely reported and the performance ratings given in the PSRs
were, for the most part, realistic. Supervision reporting was mainly impact-oriented and dealt with those
implementation issues that were likely to affect implementation and outcomes. Supervision mission
typically lasted for 5 to 8 working days in the field which in normal circumstances is an appropriate
duration for an effective supervision. The Bank managers (two Sector Managers and Sector Director) were
involved in three supervision missions during the critical phases of the implementation, and this probably
improved the positive momentum in implementation. The field office in Baku played a crucial role during
the supervision and also provided an important sustainability factor to the overall supervision. It appears
that the Task Team Leader of the ERP should have been supported more in the beginning of



                                                     - 16 -

implementation by the Bank. All in all, cooperation between the Bank team, the Borrower, the PIU, other
donors and the consultants was mainly constructive and successful.

As was described in earlier chapters, the project suffered from severe implementation delays in the
beginning due to lack of experience in Bank operations, insufficient project management capacity in the
PIU, poor overall implementation coordination between the implementing agencies, and unsuccessful
selection of good consultant in the early phase of the project. Moreover, there was a lengthy
misprocurement case during the second year of implementation. These implementation problems were
identified and addressed properly and pro-actively. However, since the supervision teams visited Azerbaijan
only semi-annually, it was very difficult to perform any preventive or early corrective measures in order to
help the PIU and the MOE to react properly to these problems. The PAD and the first supervision
memoranda quite correctly underline that close cooperation, advice and help in the early stages of
implementation of this project would be crucial for the project success. It may be argued that this principle
of more intensive supervision was not fully practiced. Although some of the problems faced by the
Borrower may have been inevitable, for example, selecting another consultant after failing performance of
the first one, could have been done faster with more direct support from the Bank.

The purpose and rationale of supervision seemed to be unclear to the Borrower until the very end of the
project. Supervision was seen as auditing and control conducted by the Bank rather than technical advice
and help to improve overall project-related performance, especially implementation. As a consequence, the
Borrower was not sure whether they could influence the supervision process, for example, by requesting
certain kinds of assistance or specific experts to join the supervision missions. Review of the supervision
documents indicates that the Bank could have paid more attention to appropriate knowledge and skills mix
on the Bank team (including consultants). With appropriate skills mix, the Bank team could have provided
more relevant and useful advice to the PIU, especially with regard to the occasional major issues that arose
in implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in general was professional and client-oriented. There were some
serious weaknesses in the project design (low learning orientation and lack of focus on truly new solutions
to teacher training and curriculum development) as well as project supervision (lack of support to the
implementing agency in the beginning, lack of focus on education change, and lack of specific technical
staff in supervision teams), but close partnership with the MOE and the PIU, and accurate processing of
project issues keep the overall Bank performance rating satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The ERP was the first education project with the Bank in Azerbaijan. The MOE had
independently drafted the Education Reform Program and expected that this project would help to achieve
some of the expected outcomes of the sector reform. The MOE education reform strategy has a strong
emphasis on curriculum reform and related teacher in-service training as key priorities. Although the
project design was mainly prepared and drafted by the Bank team, the MOE provided its support to the
plan. Relatively low planning and research capacity in the Ministry of Education and in the education
sector in general prevented more active involvement of the MOE in the project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government described its education sector policy in the Education Reform Program. It
identified the priorities that were included in the project design. The Government, through the Minister of
Education, remained fully committed to the project throughout the implementation. The MOE was



                                                    - 17 -

pro-active in identifying problems during implementation, such as inability of the first PIU Director to
fulfill his responsibilities as expected and low level of consultant performance during the beginning of the
project. The MOE was very successful and quick in finding a competent and experienced new Director for
the PIU. The Government also demonstrated strict and open professional behavior as the unfortunate
misprocurement issue was processed and solved. The counterpart funds were disbursed as planned. Despite
the overall satisfactory performance of the Government, it should be noted that the MOE did not fully
utilize the new capacities gained during the Education Fellows placement programs and studies abroad.
Many of these individuals were not immediately hired to benefit the project management and
implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory (although initially Unsatisfactory). The implementing agency's performance from the
management effectiveness point of view was poor until the last two years of the project. During the first
two years of the project, practically nothing related to project objectives was achieved. Implementation of
the Curriculum Reform and Teacher Training components remained uncoordinated and ineffective until the
new PIU Director took the responsibility for all coordination in the project. Procurement of textbooks,
teaching materials and other goods to pilot schools and TTIs was delayed. Monitoring and evaluation of the
piloting process remained in at a low level throughout the project. Until the end of the project, the line units
(Department of General Education, IEP, pilot TTIs) did not take full ownership, assuming that the PIU
would be in charge of the project, including curriculum and teacher training activities.

On the other hand, much credit should be given to the leadership role of the Minister, the Deputy Minister
and their colleagues, including the new PIU Director, as he entered the project during an extremely
complicated period. The project had been practically at a standstill until then (except for civil works and a
few ad hoc teacher trainings) and had experienced a serious misprocurement case. Under the new
management, the project was brought back to full operation, good relations with the beneficiaries were
established, excellent communication with the Minister and his senior staff existed, and all project
management related procedures were conducted and completed in a timely and satisfactory manner. The
PIU Director and the MOE also performed well in selecting consultants and making sure that all their
deliverables were disseminated effectively. During the second half of the ERP implementation, the
implementing agency's (PIU) performance was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory during the course of project preparation and
implementation. The Borrower was doing the best it could in often new and strange circumstances, and was
willing to improve and learn continuously. Difficulties in project implementation were overcome
constructively, openly and professionally. Throughout the project, the Borrower demonstrated strong
commitment to the project and to education sector development. The MOE has shown understanding and
patience with the requirements of the Bank and flexibility in adapting to new practices and external
demands.

8. Lessons Learned

General issues

Learning and Innovation Loan. Although the selection of a LIL as a lending instrument for this project
was well-justified and understandable, after completion of the project, it is not clear to what extent this
project fulfilled the principles of a LIL (other than being prepared quickly). From the learning point of
view, most of what occurred was the raised individual awareness and knowledge related to education



                                                    - 18 -

reform, especially with respect to curriculum and teacher development. Far less learning took place at the
institutional levels or at the education system level. The Bank needs to be much more precise and
disciplined in using LILs, as they have a great potential to promote learning and understanding among
first-time borrowers about the partnership procedures with international organizations, and the nature and
dynamics of sectoral reforms, and they can provide political leverage and acceptance of new ideas and
necessity to change in general. It is important to set the development objective and short term goals of
similar LILs realistically and focus them on learning and improving borrowers' personal and institutional
capacities to cope with larger sector programs. This project also shows how shortened preparation time
often leads to inappropriate identification of key issues and priorities, and obstacles in implementation. This
implies that the shorter the preparation time, the greater the need for flexibility in implementation.

Pilot approach and design. The most beneficial aspect of the pilot approach in education development
comes from comparing various models to solve a given problem. This requires that the experiments within
the pilot be carefully designed. In this project, basically, only one approach was piloted in selected schools
and Teacher Training Institutes. Therefore, at the end of the project, very little could be said about how
good this chosen method actually is as a general approach. Piloting potential models of teacher professional
development or curriculum in schools would also require a systematic and continuous monitoring and
evaluation system, that in this project was not successful. What is left after rather expensive piloting are
mainly opinions of those involved in the exercise, not objective data on how the selected approach worked
and what impact it had on teaching and learning in pilot schools. Hence, in similar pilot-based LILs, much
more attention needs to be paid to designing of the pilot, mobilizing technical assistance during the first
months of implementation and an adequate monitoring system from the very beginning of the pilot
(including baseline data from pilot institutions).

Role of supervision. First-time borrowers always need more and different supervision than experienced
partners. This was well-recognized in the project documents and early supervision memoranda. However,
despite sufficient time allocated to supervision by the Bank team, this project shows that with more
client-oriented and needs-based supervision, some of the delays and other deficits in implementation could
have been either avoided or worked out faster. The lesson is that, in LILs, the entire concept of supervision
should be reconsidered. This means, first and foremost, emphasizing the planning for supervision visits in
collaboration with the Borrower, indicating the particular areas where technical help is needed, including
strong technical experts to provide sector-specific help to the client, and providing the Borrower and the
key stakeholders with regular opportunities to discuss together the issues related to the project and the
reform in general (more workshops and learning-events instead of traditional meetings). Finally, it is
important to clarify the purpose of supervision to the Borrower very carefully and to make sure that all
supervision has needs-based orientation throughout the implementation.

Attention to educational change. The MOE saw this project as a potential engine for its own education
sector reform strategy. Therefore, one important aspect of this project was to help the MOE, education
authorities, principals and teachers to understand educational change. In other words, central expectation
related to this project was to learn about how to make the intended reforms alive in schools and classrooms.
The aspect of understanding and learning to cope with continuous educational change was only implicitly
included in the ERP. Any education reform effort should provide opportunities for those who are in charge
of implementing the changes to learn more about the experience in education reform elsewhere. Educational
research community including teacher educators are playing a key role in doing this.




                                                      - 19 -

Project specific issues

Need for continuous support to schools. Teachers and pupils indicated that this project was useful for
them. Clearly, several new thoughts and practices were rooted in schools. However, in-service training that
was offered to teachers was limited to one or a few workshops without systematic follow-up. Although the
concept of 'clinical supervision' was experimented (but not analyzed in terms of its suitability in Azeri
schools and its impact on teaching and learning), most teachers had to find their own ways to continue their
professional development alone. Listening to teachers indicates that in addition to formal training, they also
need follow-up support in order to maintain the momentum to implement new ideas in their work, and what
is even more important, to continue learning. This project shows that it is possible to reach the level of high
teacher motivation to change rather quickly but maintaining that spirit of renewal requires systematic social
and resource support and help to teachers. Together with innovative and demand-driven teacher in-service
methods, it is necessary to design more sustainable professional development system that will help to
cultivate the knowledge and skills learned in these trainings.

Curriculum versus textbooks. Curriculum reform was one of the main goals of this project. For many
teachers, the actual curriculum is the textbook used by pupils. Conversion of the new syllabi and
curriculum framework prepared in this project to teaching and learning in classrooms was slower than
expected, mostly due to lack of teaching and learning materials that would have fully reflected the renewed
curriculum. Therefore, the lesson learned, again, in this project is that development of textbooks and related
teaching aids needs to go hand-in-hand with the new curriculum. One possible practical solution is to use
the selected pilot schools as a testing site for the new curriculum and develop new textbooks
simultaneously, using some of the teachers from these schools as authors.

Unpredictable impacts. The project also had some unpredictable impacts. The general demographic trend
in Azerbaijan includes declining birth rate that has influenced the number of pupils enrolling in schools. In
other words, schools are having fewer pupils every September than before. Generally, this means declining
school sizes. However, most of the pilot schools have experienced an opposite development. Due to the
legislation, parents have a right to choose the school for their children, and in the rayons where there is a
pilot school, many parents have chosen these schools, for obvious reasons. Some of the pilot schools are
experiencing a more than 30 percent increase in enrollment compared to the situation five years ago. This
naturally has some negative impacts to the life in school in general. Argued improvement of pupil
achievement may be because of the biased additional intake in pilot schools, together with or instead of
more effective methods of instruction. Pilot-approach can, hence, have both positive and negative impacts
on schools, teachers and pupils.

Conceptions of learning. This project had a strong focus on learning through curriculum and teacher
training. Moreover, this was a Learning and Innovation Loan. Since learning seems to be the key concept of
this and similar operations, it would have been beneficial to pay more attention to better understanding of
this concept. It is certain that learning has a different connotation in Azerbaijan than it has among
contemporary school development experts or at the Bank. These differing conceptions of learning became
very dominant when the lessons learned were discussed with the Borrower and the stakeholders in the end
of the Project. The conclusion is that understanding how pupils learn and what learning means in general
could become an integral theme in education sector reform programs in general and in LILs in particular.
Within these expanded conceptions of learning such complex issues as educational change (as one form of
learning) and monitoring and evaluation could be seen in a new light.




                                                    - 20 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Overall, the Borrower experienced the project execution satisfactory. Although there were constraints
during implementation of the planned project activities, most of them were implemented during the project
duration. Details of Borrower's views of the project are attached in Additional Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Improved teacher effectiveness and         No baseline survey. The results will be based The definition and respective measuring of
satisfaction in pilot schools and TTIs.        on the findings of a monitoring and evaluation improved teachers' effectiveness is not easy.
                                               study under the Project. The study was         However, 11 out of 13 headmasters underline
                                               completed in March 2004.                       changes in teachers' methodical approach to
                                                                                              instruction and higher variability of teaching
                                                                                              methods, more orientation towards the
                                                                                              students, more active and independent, it
                                                                                              indicates that a certain basis for improved
                                                                                              teachers' effectiveness was set. Most of 45
                                                                                              teachers who were asked whether they
                                                                                              changed their teaching behavior said "yes"
                                                                                              explicitly by illustrating their behavior
                                                                                              changes. They feel more responsibility for the
                                                                                              teaching-learning process, they feel
                                                                                              influenced by their students' behavior. The
                                                                                              first external assessment of student
                                                                                              achievement in Azeri language and
                                                                                              Mathematics (Grade 5) conducted by the
                                                                                              foreign consultant showed no significat
                                                                                              differences bewteen pilot and non-pilot
                                                                                              schools.
(ii) Improved student learning outcomes in     No baseline data.                              Pilot national student assessment on Mother
pilot schools.                                                                                tongue and Mathematics for Grade 5 was
                                                                                              carried out as part of the LIL. No baseline
                                                                                              data on student achievement was available.
                                                                                              However, the average scores of pilot and
                                                                                              non-pilot students were compared in order to
                                                                                              find out whether there was already an effect
                                                                                              of being thought with the new curriculum
                                                                                              materials. In both subjects, no significant
                                                                                              differences were found between the average
                                                                                              scores of pilot school and non-pilot school
                                                                                              students. Only evidence of improved student
                                                                                              learning outcomes are anecdotal and based
                                                                                              on non-formal visit to schools and
                                                                                              conversations with teachers and school
                                                                                              principals.
(iii) Improved teacher training and curriculum No baseline survey. The assessment is          Pool of trainers and curriculum developers
development capacity in the MOE and pilot      based on the findings of a Monitoring and      exist. There were 110 methodologists of
institutions.                                  Evaluation Study (2004).                       Teacher In-Service Institutions trained either
                                                                                              in new teaching methods or in using the new
                                                                                              curriculum materials, and 61 methodologists
                                                                                              of in-service training institutions were trained
                                                                                              in modern teaching methods and training
                                                                                              skills. A third group of 36 methodologists of
                                                                                              in-service training institutions and specialists
                                                                                              of the Institute of Educational Problems were
                                                                                              specially trained and qualified in developing
                                                                                              curricula for teachers' in-service training. 61
                                                                                              people from the MOE and pilot institutions
                                                                                              improved their teacher training and
                                                                                              curriculum development capacities in
                                                                                              different international trainings and
                                                                                              fellowships organised under the LIL.
                                                                                              Capacities have improved mostly at personal
                                                                                              levels, less so at institutional levels.
                                                                                              Institutions were slow in employing
                                                                                              internationally trained experts.




                                                                  - 22 -

(iv) Improved project management and             No baseline survey. The results are based on No evidence to show specifically which
implementation capacity in the MOE.              the findings of the Monitoring and Evaluation capacities have been developed and how the
                                                 (2004).                                       newly created knowledge and skills are
                                                                                               distributed over various institutions.During
                                                                                               the project 33 staff of the MOE/PIU
                                                                                               participated in international training on
                                                                                               different aspects of management of World
                                                                                               Bank financed projects.
(v) Improved parent and the community            No baseline survey. The results are based on It is difficult to give reliable data regarding
participation and satisfaction in pilot schools. the findings of the Monitoring and Evaluation improved parents and community
                                                 (2004).                                       participation in pilot schools. Many parents
                                                                                               were reserved in the beginning of the project,
                                                                                               when the new teaching methods were
                                                                                               introduced. Most of the headmasters
                                                                                               reported changes in parents' attitudes by the
                                                                                               end of the project. However, there are still
                                                                                               parents (about 10 to 20 percent) who reject
                                                                                               the pilot program. Of course, most of the
                                                                                               parents like and highly appreciate the new
                                                                                               equipment for the pilot schools.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of curriculum developers               96                                            239
participating in study tours and workshops,
and training.
2. Development and availablity of new syllabi, 10 syllabi for Grades 1-2 and 5-6, 12           11 syllabi for Grades 1-2 and 5-6;
textboks and teacher guides.                     textbooks and 7 teacher guides                6 textbooks for Grades 5-6;
                                                                                               6 workbooks for Grades 5-6;
                                                                                               3 teacher guides
3. Number of trainers of teachers in pilot       120                                           180
TEIs trained through workshops, seminars,
and study tours.
4. Number of teachers in selected grades of      1,500                                         1212
pilot schools trained in new curricula and
teaching methods.
5. Number of teacher resource centers            5 pilot Teacher Training Institutes           5 pilot Teacher Training Institutes
established in pilot TEIs.
6. Number of classes in pilot schools with       465                                           728
new curricula/teaching methods being
implemented.
7. Number of schools and institutes              20 pilot schools, 5 Teacher Training          20 pilot schools, 5 Teacher Training
rehabilitated and refurbished and provided       Institutes, 2 curriculum development          Institutes, 2 curriculum development
with supplies.                                   institutes                                    institutes

1End of project




                                                                     - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal         Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate            Estimate       Appraisal
                             Component                               US$ million          US$ million
 1. Curriculum Development                                                 1.20               1.32             101.5
 2. Teacher Education                                                      3.20               3.20                 1
 3. Monitoring and Evaluation                                              0.60               0.76             126.6

 Total Baseline Cost                                                       5.00               5.28
  Physical Contingencies                                                   0.40               0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                      0.10               0.00
                                Total Project Costs                        5.50               5.28
                       Total Financing Required                            5.50               5.28



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                                        Total Cost
                Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method1                   (including
                                                                                                       contingencies)
                                                        ICB          NCB            Other2    N.B.F.
    1. Works Civil Works                                0.00          1.30           0.00      0.00         1.30
                                                       (0.00)        (1.20)         (0.00)    (0.00)       (1.20)
    2. Goods
    Equipment and materials                             0.00          0.00           1.20      0.00         1.20
                                                       (0.00)        (0.00)         (1.20)    (0.00)       (1.20)
    Printing                                            0.00          0.53           0.00      0.00         0.53
                                                       (0.00)        (0.53)         (0.00)    (0.00)       (0.53)
    3. Services
    Technical Assistance & Consulting Services          0.00          0.00           1.20      0.00         1.20
                                                       (0.00)        (0.00)         (1.20)    (0.00)       (1.20)
    Training, study tours, fellowships, etc.            0.00          0.00           0.80      0.00         0.80
                                                       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.80)     0.00        (0.80)
    4. Miscellaneous                                    0.00          0.00           0.45      0.00         0.45
    Recurrent Costs
                                                        0.00          0.00          (0.05)    (0.00)       (0.05)
    Total                                               0.00          1.83           3.65      0.00         5.50
                                                       (0.00)        (1.73)         (3.25)    (0.00)       (5.0)

1Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. All costs
including contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and
(ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                         - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


     Expenditure category                                  Procurement Method1                           Total Cost
                                 ICB     NCB QCBS          IS     NS     CQ       IC     DC    SS  Other

    Civil Works                            1.27                                                                 1.27
    Consultant services,
    Training, study tours and
    fellowships                                    0.96                   0.56     0.41              0.41       2.34
    Goods                         0.75                     0.57   0.21                   0.01                   1.54
    Operating costs                                                                                  0.13       0.13
    Total                                                                                                       5.28

   1Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. All costs
   including contingencies.
   2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
   services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
   assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and
   (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 IDA          Govt.       CoF.        Bank         Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
1. Curriculum                   1.20          0.10        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00   0.0    0.0     0.0
Development
2. Teacher Education
2a. Pilot TEIs                  1.00          0.30        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00   0.0    0.0     0.0
2b. Pilot Schools               1.50          0.40        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00   0.0    0.0     0.0
3. Monitoring and
Evaluation
3a. PIU                         0.00          0.40        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00   0.0    0.0     0.0
3b. M&E                         0.00          0.20        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00   0.0    0.0     0.0




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/12/1998 -              7    Team Leader, 1 Sr. Education
              09/26/ 1998                    Specialist, 1 Education
                                             Economist, 2 Operations Officer,
                                             1 Operations Analyst, 1
                                             Education Specialist Consultant
              12/ 07/1998 -             3    Team Leader, 1 Education
              12/17/1998                     Economist, 1 Operations Officer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/14/1999 -              7    1 Team Leader/Education
              03/28/1999                     Economist, 1 Education
                                             Economist, 1 Senior
                                             Education Specialist, 1
                                             Operations Officer, 1
                                             Operations Analyst, 1 Senior
                                             Procurement Officer, 1
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist,

 Supervision
              08/29/1999 -              5    1 Team Leader, 1 Operations          S               S
              09/10/1999                     Analyst, 1 Financial
                                             Management Specialist, 2
                                             Operations Officer
              11/22/1999 -              3    1 Team Leader/Education              S               S
              11/26/1999                     Economist, 1 Operations Officer,
                                             1 Program Team Leader
              05/18/2000 -              5    1 Team Leader/Education              S               S
              05/19/2000                     Economist, 1 Education
                                             Specialist, 1 Procurement
                                             Specialist, 1 Senior Operations
                                             Analyst, 1 Operations Officer
              11/01/2000 -              2    1 Team Leader/Education              S               S
              11/11/2000                     Economist, 1 Operations Officer
              02/26/2001 -              5    1 Team Leader/Education              U               S
              03/10/2001                     Economist; 2 Operations
                                             Officers; 1 Financial
                                             Management Specialist; 1
                                             Program Team Leader
              09/02/2001 -              5    1 Team Leader/Education              U               S
              09/10/2001                     Economist, 3 Operations
                                             Officers, 1 Senior
                                             Implementation/Procurement
                                             Specialist
              11/27/2001 -              4    1 Team Leader/Education              U               S
              12/07/2001                     Economist, 1 Operations Officer,



                                              - 27 -

                                           1 Education Sector Manager, 1
                                           Social Scientist,
               06/20/2002 -            2   1 Team Leader/Education             S    S
               06/28/2002                  Economist, 1 Operations Officer
               06/23/2003 -            3   1 Team Leader/Education
               06/27/2003                  Economist, 1 Program Team
                                           Leader, 1 Education Sector
                                           Manager
               11/03/2003 -            3   1 Team Leader/Education             S    S
               11/05/2003                  Economist, 1 Operations Officer,
                                           1 Financial Management
                                           Specialist
               01/19/2004 -            4   1 Team Leader/Education             S    S
               01/24/2004                  Economist, 1 Operations Officer,
                                           1 Financial Management
                                           Specialist, 1 Procurement
                                           Specialist

 ICR
               04/19/2004 -           7     1 Team Leader/Education
               04/30/2004                   Economist, 1 Senior
                                            Education Specialist, 1
                                            Education Economist, 1
                                            Operations Officer, 1 Senior
                                            Procurement Specialist, 1
                                            Financial Management
                                            Specialist, 1
                                            Architect/Project
                                            Management Specialist
                                            Consultant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            34.5                             81
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 20.4                             48
  Supervision                          147.0                            343
  ICR                                   11.1                             31
  Total                                213.0                            503




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


The implementation agency's performnace rating is based on two different periods in the project. The first
part (1999-2001) was concidered to be unsatisfactory while the second period (2001-2004) was rated
highly satisfactory.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Azerbaijan Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 15948-AZ). World Bank, August 27, 1996.

2. Azerbaijan Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 19892-AZ). World Bank, November 29, 1999.

3. Project Appraisal Document: Education Reform Project (Azerbaijan). World Bank, May 4, 1999.

4. CITO Group. Final Report. Curriculum development. Preparation of educational materials. Student
assessment consultancy. August 2003.

5. Wagner, Joachim. Azerbaijan Education Reform Project. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Component. Final Report. September 2003.

6. CITO Group. Monitoring and Evaluation Study. March 2004.




                                                 - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report (Summary)

          Report on Implementation of the Credit Agreement 3220-AZ Education Reform
                                                      Project
       in Azerbaijan between the Republic of Azerbaijan and the International Development
                                        Association (the World Bank)

                                         Ministry of Education
                                        Republic of Azerbaijan
                                             April 26, 2004

The "Development Credit Agreement" 3220-AZ was signed on July 29, 1999 between the Government of
Azerbaijan and the International Development Association and it was ratified by the subsequent decree of
the President of Azerbaijan Republic. According to the World Bank classification the Credit is
characterized as a Learning and Innovation Loan. In other words, one of the objectives of the Credit is to
create necessary capacity and skills regarding the rules, procedures and regulations of the World Bank,
provide proper training of staff, support educational innovations in Azerbaijan education system.

The overall cost of the Project was 5.5 million US dollars, and 500 thousand dollars out of this sum was
the share of Azerbaijan Government. 27 pilot institutions were identified for the implementation of the
Project. These included 20 pilot schools in Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic (4), Baku (8), Ganja (3) and
Sumgait (1) cities and Lankaran (4); the former Head Institute for In-service Training and Re-training of
Pedagogical Staff and its Lankaran branch; teacher in-service training institutes located in Nakhchivan and
Ganja; Baku City Institute for In-service Training and Re-training of Pedagogical Staff; former
Scientific-Methodological Center for Educational Problems and Institute of Pedagogical Sciences Scientific
Researches.

The Education Reform Project focused on specific approaches for carrying out reforms in the following
three main directions:
1.       Reforms in the provision of educational plans and syllabi, and instructional-methodological
materials
2.       Reforms in teacher in-service training
3.       Project monitoring and evaluation.

Among the successful accomplishments of the Ministry of Education in the area of education reform is
development and printing of 9 (nine) new generation syllabi for grades I-II and V-VI of pilot schools based
on   national   standards   for   general   education   and   Basic   educational    plan.  The  prominent
scientists-pedagogues and education specialists, progressive teachers of the Republic were involved in this
work. Starting from 2001-2002 school year the subjects of Azerbaijan language and literature, math and
computer science, history, English language (grades V and VI), music and arts (grades I-II, V-VI),
Azerbaijan language (for grades I-II, V-VI of schools with Russian as the instruction language), Russian
language and literature (for grades V-VI of schools with Russian as the instruction language) are being
taught according to the new syllabi.

In connection with the implementation of these syllabi, 252 teachers and methodologists have passed
special training courses based on the system "training of trainers". Staring from the year 2001 major
attention was given to the fundamental change in learning environment at pilot schools, and application of
active and interactive teaching/learning methods in instruction process. 204 primary grade teachers from


                                                    - 32 -

pilot schools in the year 2000, and 527 subject teachers instructing at grades V-VI and 110 methodologists
from pilot in-service training institutes in the year 2001have participated in special courses on modern
teaching methods. And 66 teachers from pilot schools and methodologists from related REOs, as well as 62
methodologists from in-service training institutes have attended in May-August of the year 2003 the
104-hour training course conducted in three stages based on the "training of trainers" model and have
subsequently received certificates. Those teachers and methodologists will train their colleagues in active
and interactive learning methods starting from the new school year. Special seminars devoted to issues
related to the application of those methods have been organized each month at one of the pilot schools.
Seminars of this type with participation of teachers and methodologists from pilot schools, prominent
scientists-pedagogues were held in Baku schools # 7, 18, 70, 82, 181, 275, 287, Sumgait city school # 25,
Nakhchivan city school # 11 and Aralig village school in Sharur region.

In accordance with modern pedagogical tendencies aiming to apply new experiences in Azerbaijan
educational system, three education specialists selected on a competitive basis received a master's degree in
Britain, at Leads University and King's College on "Integrative subjects", "Math and science" and
"Assessment in education" on a special scholarship from the Ministry of Education. In May 2000, 7
employees of the Ministry of Education were sent to the Republic of Turkey with the purpose of learning
the features of implementation of World Bank financed education reform projects. A delegation
representing the Ministry and the pilot institutions and consisting of 10 persons has closely familiarized
with the education system of the United States of America in April 2001, and held 18 official meetings,
participated in 15 seminars and got acquainted with the work practices of 12 general schools and other
educational institutions in 5 big cities of the US. In July of the same year 28 officials of the Ministry and
pilot institutions have participated in the training course on "Modern methods of general school
management in the course of democratization of the society" organized in Israel.

In May 2002 a delegation of the Ministry of Education consisting of 8 persons have closely familiarized
with the educational system of the Netherlands and Britain. During the course of the study tour the
delegation has studied in both countries the functioning of 10 units dealing with development of syllabi,
textbooks and other materials, evaluation of activities of educational institutions, visited 2 universities and
2 general schools, participated in 21 seminars.

In October 2002, seminars on "Modern views on education quality" and "Monitoring and evaluation of
educational system" were organized by German specialists for 80 leading officials in the field of education
and in December of the same year British and US specialists conducted seminars on "Evaluation of teacher
performance and development of professional level" for the leadership and employees of the Ministry of
Education, in-service training institutions and pilot schools.

In July 2003 a delegation of 20 persons consisting of 2 deputy ministers and heads of departments and
divisions of the Ministry passed a two-week training course on "Management of the education reform
project" organized in Training Center of the International Labor Organization located in Italy. In the period
of 1-14 September 9 educational employees were on a study tour in Finland and Sweden devoted to the
issues of curriculum development. In the period of 2000-2002 international consultants have carried out
special researches and made relevant recommendations for textbook provision in Azerbaijan, educational
expenses and finance, parent and community involvement in school life, development of teacher
professional level. Specialists from an international consulting company conducted research on
"Monitoring and Evaluation of the Education Reform Project".

Under the Education Reform Project it is also envisaged to strengthen the material-technical resources of
pilot institutions. Renovations were carried out in pilot institutions in 2000 and approximately 1.28 million


                                                     - 33 -

US dollars were spent for this purpose. Computers, copy machines and other equipment, as well as
furniture in the amount of approximately 1.50 million US dollars have been purchased for the Ministry of
Education and a number of pilot institutes. In the years of 2000-2003 512 sets of computers, 77 printers,
34 copy machines, 100 TVs, 208 stereo tape recorders, 92 videos, 189 various projectors, including
multimedia projectors have been purchased for all pilot schools and institutes. In addition pilot schools
were supplied with 5,950 sets of student's desks/chairs, 470 boards for using with chalk and marker, 1897
chairs for conference rooms etc. (see, Table 1).

TABLE 1

Equipment supplied                 MOE            PIU        IEP       TTIs         PS        TOTAL
 Computer                            37            9          37       152          277         512
 Printer                              9            4           7        21           36          77
 Copy machine                         4            1           3        6            20          34
 TV                                   6            1           5        32           56         100
 Stereo tape recorder                 -            -           -        36          172         208
 Video, DVD/VCR                       -            1           5        30           56          92
 Projectors                           3            2           6        56          122         189
 Fax machines                         8            1           2        5            20          36
 Video camera                         1            1           1        6            20          29
 Student's desk with two chairs                                                   5950 sets   5950 sets
 Writing boards                                                                     470         470
 Cabinet furniture (set)             15            1       2            4                        22
 Office desk                         67           22         170       290                      549
 Office chair                        66           50         330       290                      736
 Bookcase                            28           20         110       120                      278
 Safe                                 7            2           6                                 15
 Chairs for conference room                                                         1897        1897


On the whole, 92.85 percent of 5 million US dollars allocated by the World Bank and 87.34 percent of 500
thousand dollars of the contribution of the Azerbaijan Republic have been disbursed so far (see Table 2 for
details).

TABLE 2

IDA Credit funds - 3220AZ

          # Category Description         Allocated        Disbursed    Undisbursed

           1 CIVILWORKS                     1154955          1152279           2676
           2 CONSULTANTSERVICES             1816792          1721073          95719
           3 TRAINING                         622577           616350          6227
           4 GOODS                          1307273          1272810          34463
           5  OPERATINGCOSTS                   70860            64591          6269
                    TOTAL                   4972457          4827103         145354
                       %                       100.00            97.08          2.92




                                                     - 34 -

Azerbaijan Government contribution

      # CategoryDescription            Allocated        Disbursed        Undisbursed

       1 CIVILWORKS                         128544           127457               1087
       2 CONSULTANTSERVICES                       -                -                  -
       3 TRAINING                                 -                -                  -
       4 GOODS                              321456           272850              48606
       5 OPERATINGCOSTS                      50000            46649               3351
                TOTAL                       500000           446956              53044
                   %                         100.00            89.39              10.61



Due to regression in the first 2 years of the Credit Agreement and because of some mistakes made, a range
of activities envisaged were not carried out in time. Thus, due to a number of shortcomings in the activities
of the Consortium for International Development selected in October 2000 for rendering consultancy
services in "Curriculum development and teacher in-service training" and because of its careless
performance of the terms of the contract and the activities it envisaged the Ministry of Education started in
July 2001 the procedure for cancellation of the contract with the consortium and this process was
completed at the end of November of the same year. As a result, a range of activities provided for in pilot
schools in the fields of education content, curriculum development, teacher in-service training have not been
carried out and funds for this purpose amounting to 405 thousand US dollars have remained unused.

In the Project Appraisal Document funds in the amount of 400 thousand US dollars are provided for the
purchase of textbooks for pilot schools, 130 thousand US dollars are provided for development and printing
of methodological aids for teachers. Because this issue has not been precisely detailed in the Project
Appraisal Document a series of negotiations have been held between the Ministry of Education and the
World Bank, suggestions were made and only in April 2002 a suitable agreement was reached for solving
the issue. Because completion of these two large-scale activities till the end of the Credit Agreement, i.e. the
31st of December was not feasible, with consent of Azerbaijan Government the World Bank was addressed
to in order to prolong the Credit Agreement for 9 months and on 16th of July, 2002 the World Bank
approved the prolongation of the Credit Agreement till September 30th, 2003.

During this time-period a bid for preparation of new textbooks, workbooks and teachers' methodological
aids was conducted according to the plan. For the first time in Azerbaijan, starting from 1st of September
textbooks, workbooks and teachers' methodological aids will be provided for students of grades V and VI
in pilot schools on the subject of "Literature", and for the schools with Russian as the language of
instruction on the subject of "Russian language" and "Literature".

Appropriate activities have been carried out in order to complete the unfinished activities in the field of
curriculum development, assessment of student achievements and teacher in-service training. Selected
external consultants have commenced their consultancy services in January-February of the current year
and these activities are almost completed.        These consultants conducted seminars on "Curriculum
development", "Student assessment and national assessment" for specialists from the Institute of
Educational Problems, in-service training institutes and a group of progressive teachers (total of 62
persons) in the period of February-June of the current year. For the first time a national student assessment
in compliance with the international standards was organized for 1,600 grade 5 students from 8 pilot and
12 non-pilot schools located in Baku, Ganja, Sumgait and Lankaran. Task groups involving the



                                                     - 35 -

international and national consultants and 26 education specialist have developed curricula on Native
Language and Math (V and IX grades), as well as models for national and student assessments.

Another international consultant conducted seminars for 155 methodologist from in-service institutes, IEP
employees and pilot school teachers on "Curriculum development for in-service institutes", "Active and
interactive teaching/learning methods". Curricula in 20 fields based on 6 subjects were developed for the
first time, with help of this Center. Taking into consideration the second prolongation of the Credit
Agreement the Ministry of Education (PIU) prepared a corresponding implementation plan and is now
implementing this plan. The Credit 3220-AZ was closed March 31, 2004.




                                                  - 36 -

- 37 -

