Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18991-AZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 3,700,000
TO THE
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
FOR AN
EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
May 4, 1999
Human Development Sector
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Azerbaijani Manat
3,861 manats = US$ I (as of 10/27/98)
3,942 manats = US$ I (as of 04/28/99)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB             Asian Development Bank
COM             Cabinet of Ministers
ESAF/EFF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility/Extended Fund Facility
FMS             Financial Management Specialist
FSU             Former Soviet Union
IsDB            Islamic Development Bank
IDP             Internally Displaced People
IMF             International Monetary Fund
LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
MOE             Ministry of Education
MOF             Ministry of Finance
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
PIM             Project Implementation Manual
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
PMR             Project Management Report
PRI             Pedagogical Research Institute
SA              Special Account
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SMC             Scientific and Methodological Center on Educational Problems
TEI             Teacher Education Institution
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNHCR           United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF          United Nations International Children's Education Fund
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager:  James A. Socknat
Task Team Leaders:   Philip O'Keefe and Haiil Dundar



Azerbaijan
Education Reform Project (LIL)
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objectives ................................................................I
1.   Project development objective ................................................................I
2.   Key  performance  indicators ................................................................I
B: Strategic Context ................................................................1
1.  Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ............ 1
2.   Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ...............................................................I                              1
3.   Sector issues to be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices .....................................4
C: Project Description Summary ................................................................7
1.   Project components ................................................................7
2.   Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by the project ...........................................7
3.   Benefits and target population ................................................................8
4.   Institutional and  implementation  arrangements .............................................. , .,.9
D: Project Rationale ..............................................9
I .   Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ..............................................                                9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned) ..........................................                                                             10
3.   Lessons learned  and  reflected  in the project design ..........................................                                         11
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................................                                                11
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project ..........................................                                                    12
E: Summary Project Analysis ..........................................                                                                               12
1. Economic ..........................................                                                                                        12
2. Financial ..........................................                                                                                        12
3. Technical ..........................................                                                                                       13
4. Institutional ..........................................                                                                                    13
5. Social ..........................................                                                                                           14
6. Environmental assessment ..........................................                                                                         14
7. Participatory approach ..........................................                                                                           14
F: Sustainability and Risks ..........................                                                                                               15
1. Sustainability ..........................                                                                                                   15
2. Critical Risks ..........................                                                                                                   15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ..........................                                                                                   16
G: Main Credit Conditions ...........................                                                                                                16
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..........................                                                                                         16
2. Other covenants ..........................1 , 7
H: Readiness for Implementation ..........................                                                                                           17
I: Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................                                                                                          17



Page ii
Annexes
Annex I       Project Design Summary
Annex 2       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3       Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4       Financial Summary
Annex 5       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6       Financial Management
Annex 7       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8       Documents in Project File
Annex 9       Statement of Credits
Annex 10      Country at a Glance
Map           IBRD 27426



AZERBAIJAN
Education Reform Project (LIL)
Project Appraisal Document
Human Development Sector
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Date: May 4, 1999                                    Task Team Leaders: Philip O'Keefe and Halil Dundar, ECSHD
Country Director: Ishrat Husain, ECCOI               Sector Manager: James A. Socknat, ECSHD
Project ID: AZ-PE-57959        Sector: Education     Program Objective Category: PA 50%; EA 50%
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Credit (LIL)   Program of Targeted Intervention:   []  Yes [x] No
Project Financing Data                      [  Credit    [x] Credit [ ] Guarantee   [  Other [Specify]
For Credits/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 3.7 million
Proposed terms:                              [x]  Multicurrency -  []   Single currency, specify
proposed
Grace period (years): 10          [x]  Standard        []   Fixed           []    LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
-Finauu   -Iu  -USS 5.- -millkx-     -             -
Sourse                                LOWa.              Foreign           T0aI
Government                                                        0.5                                  0.5
IBRD                                                              0.0                 0.0              0.0
IDA                                                               1.0                 4.0              5.0
Total           1.5                 4.0              5.5
Borrower: Republic of Azerbaijan
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Education
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
.Y             W- .FY0                  FYO         F'W2
Annual       1.9      2.5        0.6
Cumulative      1.9      4.4         5.0
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: July 1999 Expected closing date: December 2002



A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objective:
The overall development objective of the project is to improve the effectiveness of teaching and
learning in selected grades of general schools in Azerbaijan through: (i) supporting innovations in curriculum
content and the curriculum development process; (ii) piloting new teacher education content (including new
teaching methods) and delivery mechanisms; and (iii) evaluating the impact of project interventions through
monitoring and evaluation in teacher education institutions (TEIs) and pilot schools, in order to provide
lessons for broader sectoral reform.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
A set of key indicators is specified and presented in Annex 1. The key indicators would be related to
the development and implementation of new curricula and teacher training. Given the learning objectives of
the LIL lending instrument, a strong but flexible monitoring and evaluation system would help the project
management develop additional indicators as appropriate during the implementation of the project. Indicators
would be not only related to some key input indicators, but also to some process and outcome indicators,
which will be measured through several evaluation studies towards the end of the project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15948-AZ      Date of latest CAS discussion: August 27, 1996
The project supports the CAS objective of the need for "social policies that preserve Azerbaijan's
human capital and protect those vulnerable to changes that are sweeping the economy." In particular, it refers
to the need to develop a "more rationalized system for delivery of basic social services." More broadly, the
GAS focuses on issues in which the role of education and the Ministry of Education are critical. The first is
reorganization of the public sector. The CAS calls for "reorganizing the public sector (such as ministries,
agencies, concerns) in line with the requirements of a market economy". An additional related CAS objective
is "improving the allocative efficiency of public resources". As the education sector accounts for around 50
percent of total public sector employment currently, promoting more efficient training and use of teachers as
anticipated under the project is critical to realization of this objective. The CAS also has alleviating poverty
as a major objective. Given the important role of an improved education system in long term household and
national welfare, the proposed project is a core element of the Bank's medium to long term poverty alleviation
goals.
There is a new CAS under preparation for the period FYOO-FY02, which is expected to be approved
early in FYOO. The preliminary draft retains a strong emphasis on social sectors and human capital formation,
with the education sector the primary focus on social services. Given the overall "Dutch disease" theme of
the new CAS, social sectors are viewed as one of the major targets for productive investment of oil revenues.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Azerbaijan has been struggling to retain the positive achievements of the past education system while
developing sectoral reforms appropriate to the needs of an independent state and a market economy. It
inherited a developed education system from the Former Soviet Union (FSU), and its impressive educational
statistics at all levels of education place it in the ranks of middle income countries, and ahead of several FSU
countries. However, a closer look at enrollment, quality of education, and operation of the system shows that
the system is confronted with numerous challenges. The main sectoral issues are:
(a) Inappropriate curriculum content and development process: During the Soviet era, all curricula were
developed, standardized, and issued from Moscow with little or no input from the local levels. Since
independence, curriculum plans for all institutions of learning are prepared by the national Scientific and



Page 2
Methodological Center on Educational Problems (SMC), which reports directly to the Minister of Education.
The role and functions of this Center are closely-though not clearly-related to those of other institutions,
especially the national Pedagogical Research Institute (PRI) and the various institutions dealing with teacher
education. Through its Science Department, the MOE approves the curriculum plan or timetable for each
grade from pre-school through higher education, and the syllabi, teachers' guides and textbooks for each
subject. The SMC also designs statutory forms, documents, certificates and records that are printed by state
publishers. There is limited consultation of practicing teachers during this process, or other interested groups
such as students or employers, and a notable absence of coordination between SMC and PRI.
The Azeri education system is confronted with several significant problems concerning its current
curriculum content and structure in general education. The major problems concern: (a) the manner in which
curricula are formulated due to the hiatus caused from the break-up of the FSU; (b) limited adjustments in
curricula and syllabi to reflect the needs of a market economy (e.g., more optional courses; less rigid
course/subject classifications) and a newly independent society (e.g., civics education); (c) apparent overlap
in functions between SMC and PRI, with limited coordination of their efforts; (d) limited opportunities for
any comparative basis for determining logical, sequential content or establishing standards; (e) overcrowding
of the current curricula for general schools, where up to 31 subjects can be studied; (f) restricted funds for
curriculum development institutions to perform their functions (e.g., facilities, equipment, books and other
materials); and (g) limited technical capacity for curriculum development (in terms of the number,
qualifications, and experience of staff), with no existing curriculum developers specifically trained in this
area.
(b) Teacher education, teaching and learning: The present teacher education system includes: (a) pre-
service education, which is provided in both universities (for upper grades) to those who have completed a
full general education cycle, and in teacher training colleges (for pre-school and primary teachers) to those
who leave schools after grade 9; (b) in-service training or upgrading every five or so years while employed as
a teacher; and (c) re-training to gain knowledge of a different subject field or to change from another
occupation to become a teacher. At present, around 12 major public institutions spread throughout the
country offer teacher education: five teacher training colleges prepare pre-service teachers for Grades 1-4, two
major universities prepare teachers for Grades 5-1 1, and five institutions deliver regular in-service training
with three of these also offering formal full-length re-training courses.
The major problems in teacher education include: (a) the lack of integration within the whole system
of teacher education; (b) possible duplication of functions among some of the institutions; (c) the size and
structure of some of institutions; (d) narrowly specialized teacher education programs for upper grades (e.g.,
secondary school teachers trained in biology are not also entitled to teach chemistry or other science subjects
in upper grades). This practice contributes to the low student-teacher ratio in general education since most
single subject teachers are not able to teach "full-time equivalent" teaching loads, particularly in smaller
schools in rural areas; (e) curricula of the institutions and their relationships to the school curricula, which are
frequently unclear; (f) lack of formal on-going relationship with schools, including no provision of in-service
training in schools themselves; (g) inadequate funds for facilities, equipment, books, and other essential
teaching materials; and (h) lack of exposure of staff in teacher education institutions to modern teaching
methods and teacher training delivery methods. All these problems affect the quality and effectiveness of the
delivery of teacher training, and eventually the quality of teaching and learning at the school level.
Azerbaijan shares the characteristic low student/teacher ratios of most FSU countries, with a ratio of
12:1 in general education. This compares to an OECD ratio of around 15:1 and far higher ratios in middle
and low income countries. This is caused in significant measure by the inherited policy of having single
subject teachers in secondary (grades 5-1 1) education, and the decrease of a "full" teaching load from 18 to
only 12 hours per week. Despite falling real wages and a drop in the birth rate, the number of education-
sector workers increased by more than 10 percent between 1992 and 1998 (though there is continuing
problems with accurate measurement, due to the frequent confusion between the number of teachers and
authorized teaching positions). The high number of educational staff is not only a sectoral issue, as they now



Page 3
account for over 50 percent of non-defence budgetary employment, and more than 10 percent of all
employment. The latter compares to figures of around 7 percent in both Hungary and the USA.
In the Soviet period, teachers were given little discretion in what to teach and how to teach. One of
the main characteristics of teaching is the focus on learning facts rather than acquiring skills that allow
knowledge to be applied in various situations. Methods are not based on active methods of teaching which
are preferred in contemporary education systems, but are rigid and passive, with insufficient attention paid to
the needs of individual children. Even where there is a desire to move away from this model, administrators
face lack of new teaching resources on contemporary teaching methods. A final notable feature of the
primary education system is that teachers move through with a class from grades 1-4, before reverting to a
new group in grade 1, which has interesting implications for teacher training strategies as are curricula are
revised.
(c) Budgetary: There has been a rapid decline of education budgetary resources as a share of GDP, resulting
from the reduced levels of government revenues. The bulk of financial resources for education is provided by
the local and central government, though a growing fraction comes from informal payments from parents to
supplement teacher salaries and other recurrent expenditures. Public investment in education as a percent of
GDP has dropped dramatically from close to 7 percent in 1992 to less than 4 percent in 1997. In real terms,
public education expenditures in 1997 were 34 percent of the level of 1992.
(d) Inefficient use of resources. The use of scarce resources in the education system is inefficient and
unsustainable. The education budget, like the other sectors, is a line item budget formulated according to
Soviet-era planning norms, and spending cannot be shifted across line items or between budget years. The
rigid nature of this budgeting has undermined the ability of local education administrations to prioritize
among expenditures in the budget preparation process, and to allocate resources according to local needs.
The unsustainable composition of expenditures can best be seen in the high share of education spending on
salaries and payroll taxes (over 75 percent of territorial budgets in recent years), and the failure to finance any
capital expenditures for the past several years.
(e) Deteriorating infrastructure and educational materials: There has been a rapid deterioration of the
quality of education resulting from the decay and destruction of school buildings; lack of textbooks,
instructional materials and basic school furniture particularly in rural and poor areas of the country; and the
flight of better teachers away from the profession due to low salaries. Most schools are in need for substantial
rehabilitation and refurbishment. In 1995, only 3.2 percent of education spending was on textbooks and
curriculum development, with children from grades 5-1 1 paying, and textbooks for grades 1-4 provided by
the government free of charge in principle. However, MOE sources indicate that only around 35 percent of
children in grades 1-4 will be provided with free textbooks by the Government in 1999/2000. Moreover, only
one textbook is available per subject, and books provided to schools are bought and resold at high prices by
private traders.
(f) Increasing inequities in access to education. There is growing concern about equitable access to
education, as rates of extended absence and/or drop-outs in general education have increased and considerable
regional variations have emerged. For example, the percent of relevant age group (3-6 years) attending
kindergartens has dropped from 19 percent in 1990 to 13 percent in 1997. In upper secondary education, the
share of the relevant age group (15-18 years) attending school dropped from 34 percent in 1990 to 28 percent
in 1996.
Second, regional variations in school attendance have begun to emerge as there are falls in attendance
at every level of school, especially in rural parts of the country and for those children coming from poor
families. For example, there are considerable differences in regional enrollment rates for 6-16 year olds-
among very poor households, with Baku and Apsheron rates of 97 percent, compared to only 75 percent in the
Near Southwest. With respect to absence rates for general education, there are also substantial regional
differences. According to nationally representative household survey data from the end of 1995, about 43



Page 4
percent and 38 percent of students from the Far South and Nakhichevan respectively were absent from
schools, but only 2 percent in Baku and Apsheron.
The sharp decline in public education spending has coincided with a sharp increase in private
spending, offsetting at least part of the collapse in public spending (though this is mostly in higher rather than
general education). There is some evidence that an increasing number of poor families can not afford the
increasing cost of education.
Government response and strategy: The Government recognizes these challenges, and has responded
through establishment of an Education Reform Commission in 1998. The Commission has overseen
preparation of a draft Education Reform Program, which is expected to be approved by the President later this
year. This is intended to outline a reform agenda for the next decade or more for all levels of the education
system, though the main focus of the current draft is on general education. It is intended that the Program
would form the basis of a more concrete and detailed Education Reform Action Plan. Two major areas where
reform is stressed are curriculum reform and changes in teaching and learning processes, where major
changes are anticipated. Reforms are needed in the content of subjects, the overall structure of subjects at
each level of the system (including the balance between core and optional subjects), and standard setting to
ensure that all students develop a core set of skills and knowledge in compulsory education. These reforms
should be based on a clear and flexible understanding of what society expects from students. While many
specific measures are needed, like reduction in the number of compulsory subjects and increasing the number
of core texts per subject grade, they are only outcomes of a more thorough reorientation of the objectives and
methods of teaching and learning.
There was concern from the policy dialogue that the Government may move too fast, and thus
superficially, in implementing curriculum reform. The Bank and PHRD-funded advisor have been working
with the MOE to try to allow for an implementation timetable in the draft Education Reform Program more
consistent with local capacity and the lessons of international experience. There has been significant
movement on this, as the proposed number of grades for implementation of new curricula nationally in
1999/2000 has been reduced from 1 I (grades I -I 1) to one (grade 1).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The first choice in project design was on which level of education to focus the project. The range of
issues above appeared to be more acute in general education, in particular because the curriculum, financing
and other issues in higher education are in part being addressed by an increased supply of private higher
education institutions. The choice of general education is also more consistent with the priorities of the draft
Education Reform Program, and was strongly advised by the MOE during project identification.
Curriculum Reform. This is a major component of the project. The component would seek to address a
number of issues in the curriculum development process:
* based on the results of a curriculum organization and institutional study financed under the PHRD
grant, it would support institutional and process innovations in curriculum development, by
attempting to coordinate the development of curriculum better between relevant institutions, and
introducing new consultation processes (e.g., with teachers and students) during the curriculum
development process. It is hoped that the improved institutional and process arrangements piloted
under the component can provide lessons for future curriculum development in general education, as
well as in other types of education.
* based on the findings of consultant studies on curriculum and teacher education under the PHRD and
agreements with the MOE during the appraisal mission, the component would support reform of
curriculum content in selected grades and more broadly in teaching methods. The proposed
implementation schedule for curriculum reform would target grade 1 in the 1999/2000 school year, in



Page 5
addition to grade 5 in pilot schools, with a phased roll-out into upper grades continuing during project
life. In addition to course content in the selected grades, the project would support the first attempts
in Azerbaijan to integrate courses into subject groupings within each grade (e.g., social sciences;
natural sciences), and to promote over time a more logical sequence of pedagogical progression from
one grade to the next. It is hoped that this will provide both the exposure to international practices
and innovations and-through monitoring implementation of the new curricula in pilot schools-
early lessons of experience which will be relevant to the ongoing curriculum reform process, and
enable the Government to adjust its reforms as it goes.
An important strategic decision in this component was not to have a substantial textbook sub-
component. This was recommended by the PCD review meeting, given the limited project funds and the
complexity of issues involved in a serious engagement with the textbook and publishing industry (which for
textbooks remains largely a segmented duopoly of two state-owned publishing houses, despite attempts by the
Soros Foundation to foster a more competitive small scale local educational publishing capacity). Instead, it
is proposed that textbooks be provided only in selected grades of pilot schools, and mainly for the purposes of
monitoring whether the textbooks for the new curricula are effective learning tools. At the same time, the
project will finance printing of syllabi and teacher guides for all teachers of grade I in 1999/2000, and
selected grades thereafter, given the relatively minor resource implications. These would be handed over to
teachers taking over that grade in the following year. In addition, there will be a detailed education textbook
and publishing study under the project.
The decision to exclude textbooks creates a risk downstream that the existing shortage of general
school textbooks will become even more acute, and that the potential educational benefits of the new curricula
and improved teaching methods will be diluted as a result. It is hoped that this risk can be mitigated in
several possible ways: (i) by trying to mobilize grant funding from the Government of Norway for textbooks
in grades where new curricula are introduced; (ii) Azerbaijan is soon to become a member of ADB. ADB has
already been quite active in the region in large textbook projects (e.g. in Uzbekistan), and the MOE and the
project team will explore with ADB possibilities for a similar operation in Azerbaijan; (iii) the Islamic
Development Bank had on exploratory visits to Azerbaijan expressed an interest in curriculum reform, but
acknowledged their comparative disadvantages on the technical side in development of new curricula. This
avenue for future textbook support should also be explored; (iv) the early discussions of the new Azerbaijan
CAS have suggested an APL in education with a first segment starting in FY02. Part of the financing could
be for textbooks if other funding sources are not forthcoming or are inadequate; and (v) encouraging
competitive tendering of textbooks under the project, and undertaking analytical work, both designed to
increase the longer term efficiency and diversity of the textbook publishing industry.
A second strategic choice in component design relates to assessment and testing in general education.
This is not addressed on any scale in the proposed project, though it is recognized that assessment and testing
are important elements of effective curriculum reform. However, teachers in pilot schools will be provided
training in student assessment and learning outcomes at the school level, and the project team will also
explore during project implementation the experimental use of different school-based assessment tools in the
pilot schools. It is also proposed that one or more of the studies under the curriculum and teacher training
consultancies should address the assessment and examination system in detail. In addition, the project would
finance Azerbaijan's participation in the OECD PISA study, which provides internationally comparable
assessment of student learning. Finally, advice on assessment and examination has been ongoing in the
policy dialogue over the draft Education Reform Program. The overall thrust of these reforms should be to
reorient student and school assessment from mainly monitoring inputs to education (e.g. teachers, number of
students) to a system which monitors inputs, teaching and learning processes (e.g. teaching and learning
methods and their flexible application) and outcomes (what knowledge and skills are acquired by students).
Teacher Training. The component addresses several issues in teacher education and teaching practices,
particularly focusing on in-service TEIs in five pilot districts (Baku, Sumgayit, Lenkoran, Genje and



Page 6
Nakhichevan). Given the limited project funds and urgent needs, it was decided not to include pre-service
institutions:
through piloting the teaching of modern teaching methods - more "active" learning methods, involving
greater flexibility for teachers in meeting the requirements of new curricula; project-based learning etc. -
the project will attempt to address the current passive teaching methods with their emphasis on fact
retention rather than problem solving and broader skills acquisition;
by supporting development of new in-service teacher education course content (e.g., piloting teaching of
integrated subject grouping courses resulting in broader profile secondary teachers), the component would
strengthen the linkages between school curricula and TEI curricula, which is presently weak. Training
single subject teachers as general specialists or dual subject specialists could in time provide some cost
savings in smaller schools due to a decline in the number of teachers in the system. More importantly, to
re-train single subject specialist teachers as generalist or dual subject teachers is particularly important in
the context of curriculum reform, since the number of compulsory courses will be reduced sharply;
the component would address the institutional problems of lack of linkage between schools and in-service
TEIs, and between TEIs through experimenting with use of school-based training by trainers from TEIs
where appropriate. The project would explore the possibility of linking in-service TEIs to teachers and
school administrators in pilot schools, to provide on-going teacher education and mentorship. This will
not necessarily be easy to introduce, and will very much rely on the experimental nature of a LIL
intervention to try to initiate successful experiences and create demonstration effects to encourage
replication in non-project TEls;
*  the intensive training-of-trainers element of the component would substantially strengthen capacity to
deliver teacher training in the pilot TEIs. These could then become "model" TEIs which could provide
valuable lessons for other TEIs throughout the country;
*  another option proposed to be tested is development of small teacher resource centers in the pilot TEIs, in
order to test whether TEIs can become a more effective tool of ongoing teacher learning and skill
upgrading between periods of formal in-service training. The limited resources under the component
mean that this will be a very basic resource center, but it is hoped that a positive side-effect can be that
trainers in the TEls are also placed in more regular contact with practicing teachers, and that this might in
time result in a greater demand orientation in TEIs.
One option in supporting new models of providing teacher training which has been tested in other
countries in the ECA region is project financing of out-sourced training services for teachers, where non-TEI
training providers could present proposals for packages of training for teachers in specific fields (e.g. IT
courses). This would be considered a radical approach in Azerbaijan presently, where all teacher education is
controlled by public TEIs, and may not be politically acceptable at this time. However, it may be an area
where - subject to agreement by the MOE - one small test case could be financed either under the project or
through attracting supplementary grant financing.
Pilot Schools. An important feature of the project in terms of learning and testing new approaches is the
implementation of new curricula and teaching and teacher training methods in 20 pilot schools in the five
pilot districts where pilot TEIs are located (the distribution of schools by district is outlined in the Minutes of
Negotiations). There will also be an attempt to engage local communities more actively in the operations of
the schools, through testing different models of facilitating active community participation.
Monitoring and Evaluation: This is a critical element of LILs, and monitoring indicators are discussed in
more detail in Annex 1. Broadly, the project would attempt to answer the following questions with regard to
the effectiveness of the project interventions:



Page 7
a. Do new curricula and teaching methods help raise students' leaming achievements, and teacher
and parent satisfaction in pilot schools compared to non-pilot schools? This will be assessed
through: (i) experimenting with school-based assessment methods and tools for learning
achievement, and comparing against non-project schools; and (ii) social assessments and other
qualitative assessments.
b. Do teachers in pilot schools become more effective in the delivery of instructional materials
through new teaching methods ?
c. Are twinning arrangements between TEIs and pilot schools an effective approach to improve
teacher training compared to the current situation ?
d. Are pilot TEIs more effective in improving teachers' effectiveness and satisfaction when they
include teacher resource centers compared to non-pilot institutions ?
C: Project Description Summary
1.  Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Curriculum development   Civil works; goods;             1.3         24       1.2       24
consulting services;
training, study tours and
fellowships; operating costs
2. Teacher education        Civil works; goods,
(a) TEls                consulting services; training    1.4        25       1.2        24
and study tours; operating
costs
(b) Pilot schools        Training; goods; civil          2.1        38        1.9       38
works; operating costs
3. Project management and    Goods; consulting services;    0.7         13       0.7        14
Monitoring and Evaluation  operating costs
a. Project management.
b. Monitoring and
evaluation.
Total       5.5        100       5.0        100
Note: Figures may not sum due to rounding
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Given the limited leverage provided by a LIL, there will not be substantial policy conditionality
attached to the credit, though lessons learned will be useful in developing conditionality for later Bank
adjustment and public sector lending operations, and provide a basis for monitoring performance on IMF
ESAFIEFF conditionality on education. However, the project should have a strong emphasis on promoting
policy and institutional reform through the demonstration effect of the pilot activities, and the analyticat work
of studies. These include:



Page 8
* promoting greater consultation in ongoing curriculum development;
* instituting a process of regular interaction between TEIs and schools which is underdeveloped presently;
*  through tendering processes for goods, equipment and leaming materials, and PIU financial management
procedures to improve the transparency and cost-effectiveness of other procurement and financial
management exercises by the MOE;
* to demonstrate that closer involvement of communities in schools has positive impacts; and
* linking ongoing policy development to a more coherent vision of sectoral goals and responsibilities,
developed on the basis of more accurate and useful data.
3. Benefits and target population:
The target populations are several:
(i)  children in selected grades, parents, teachers and school administrators in areas where project
activities are piloted;
(ii)  TEI managers, teacher trainers and teachers in selected grades in pilot TEIs;
(iii) management and staff of curriculum development center(s), and other actors involved in the
curriculum development and approval process;
(iv) teachers for grade I and selected higher grades nationally, who will receive syllabi and teacher
guides;
(v)  MOE staff- both centrally and in pilot districts; and
(vi) the broader target population is all children in the selected grades under the project, who should
benefit from the experimentation and demonstration effects of the project. The same would be
true for TEI management and staff in non-project areas, who would also benefit from the
project through training of trainers workshops.
While the project is a LIL, it would have both immediate and more narrowly focused direct benefits,
and longer-term and broader benefits for the people of Azerbaijan. In the short term, there would be several
benefits: (i) initiating reforms in what is taught in schools and how it is taught, and developing capacity to
develop and refine curricula in the future. For curriculum development centers, this would involve exposure
for the first time to international practices in curriculum development methodology, syllabi content, and
teaching methods. They would also benefit from structural refurbishment and equipment and materials; (ii)
preparing groups of faculty members in pilot TEIs and teachers pilot schools in new curriculum and teaching
methods. They would also benefit from structural refurbishment, and materials and equipment; and (iii) for
children in pilot schools - benefits from the improved learning environment through: (a) revised curricula (for
selected grades); (b) improved teacher training; and (c) provision of the other key inputs (e.g., textbooks and
instructional materials, and school rehabilitation and refurbishment); and (iv) developing project management
capacity in the MOE which will be important for implementing its own reform agenda, and possible follow-
on Bank projects in the sector.
In the long run, if new curricula are found effective and implemented nationwide, all children
nationwide would benefit from a modern general education curriculum which would be based on intemational
standards. Given that the project is a LIL, this would be achieved through technical assistance on curriculum
development, including building local curriculum development capacity, through training, study tours and
fellowships.
It should be noted that the project would finance the development and implementation of new
curricula for only selected grades. However, it is expected that the enhanced curriculum development
capacity within the MOE would help revise and update curriculum for all subjects and grades within the



Page 9
duration of the project, though the implementation of new curricula could take longer time than the project's
expected implementation period.
In the long run, the spillover effects of the project should be more significant. Since the Ministry is
already planning to reform the curricula (regardless of any international support), the Bank's support would
be critical in providing international experience and practices in updating and restructuring curricula. All
students will be eventually benefit from modern curricula. Of course, in the long run the ultimate
beneficiaries are the school graduates of the country, who are better skilled and benefit from higher wages due
to improved productivity. Another major beneficiary would be employers in the country, who will employ
the better-skilled graduates.
An issue for consideration is why the project does not have more explicit focus on poor areas of the
country. The answer has several elements: (i) in selecting pilot schools - particularly in rural areas- an
attempt will be made to include schools from poorer areas, though this involves the usual trade-offs between
the desire for successful pilot experiences and poverty focus. The proposed inclusion of Nakhichevan also
addresses this concern to an extent, as it was found to be the poorest region of the country in the Poverty
Assessment; (ii) in all pilot schools, the monitoring of enrollment and attendance will attempt to focus
particularly on the poorer students, with poverty levels proxied by receipt of means-tested child allowances;
and (iii) in many cases, poor areas are synonymous with areas with high concentrations of IDPs. As many
NGOs and donors are active in these areas already, there is a risk of over-concentration on these areas, and
introducing substantial donor coordination problems. In addition, the Pilot Reconstruction Project
specifically targets the raions of Fizuli, Agdam and Terter, which are poor and have high concentrations of
IDPs. This is discussed more below on the Bank's value added.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project implementation period is 3 years.
The project would be implemented through a PIU located in building of the MOE, and reporting
directly to the Minister of Education, and with inputs from international and local consultants. It was agreed
at negotiations that the preferred status for the PIU would be for it to be established under a COM decree, but
reporting directly to the Minister of Education. This would also provide some benefits to the Ministry of
Education in building project management capacity. There would be core staff of a project director,
procurement officer, accountant, and administrative support and interpreter. These would be supported by a
Project Advisor, and international technical assistance on procurement and financial management.
The team is also exploring possibilities for involving a broader range of actors in project
implementation, including international and local NGOs. In particular, the team is exploring possibilities for
parallel financing from the Government of Norway, for both textbooks and to promote "twinning"
arrangements between participating TEIs in Azerbaijan and Norway. This might involve staff exchanges,
training in Azerbaijan and Norway, and perhaps equipment and other support to selected TEIs. A Bank team
member visited Norway in December 1998 and found in principle support for such an idea, and the MOE and
the Bank are now following up with the Norwegian Ambassador.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed lending instrument. The proposed credit is a LIL. LILs are intended to be used
when: (i) Bank involvement in a sector is relatively recent; and (ii) the authorities are at the early stages-of
sectoral reform, and what is required is further institutional and policy development, and piloting of new
processes and instruments in the sector. The intention is that the LIL should strengthen the policy and
institutional framework and experiment with new models within the sector. This should lead to more



Page 10
substantial investment in the sector in the medium term, which builds on the capacity developed and pilot
lessons learned under the LIL. The country and sectoral management and the project team feel that the
conditions in the education sector in Azerbaijan match this situation well, and the PCD meeting endorsed the
use of a LIL.
Both the Bank team and the MOE hope that a LIL will provide the analytical and implementation
experience to consider a larger operation in the sector in the future. In preliminary discussions in the context
of the forthcoming CAS, an APL has been suggested for FY02, and will be discussed with Government in the
coming months. In a meeting with the President during the appraisal mission, he endorsed a longer term
involvement of the Bank in the sector. Together, the lessons from the LIL and the formal approval of the
Government's draft Education Reform Program and subsequent Education Action Plan would provide a
strong programmatic basis for such an intervention.
Alternatives considered
(a) regular investment project: Given the limited analytical work in the education sector to date in Azerbaijan
(both by the Bank and other donors), and the fact that the MOE is a first time borrower, it was felt that a
larger investment operation was overly high risk. The prohibition under s. 907 of the US Foreign Relations
Act on non-humanitarian aid has also meant that normal operations on which a Bank operation might "piggy-
back" do not exist. An additional reason for avoiding a larger investment operation is the constrained IDA
resources available for Azerbaijan, so that an operation which has been relatively recently added to the
portfolio would not have substantial funding. Finally, a larger investment operation would take significantly
more time to prepare. Given the window of opportunity offered by the timetable of the MOE's own reform
strategy development, and the desire to respond in a timely manner to the lead given by specifying the Bank
as the lead donor partner in education in the Presidential Decree, it was felt that time was of the essence; and
(b) adjustment lending as part of SAL: The Bank is pursuing a broader public sector reform agenda in its
policy dialogue and under the Public Sector Reform Strategy. However, a number of the quality issues
involved in the MOE's reform agenda are not easily addressed through policy conditionality, but rather
involve learning by doing and gradual approaches. At the same time, a LIL is a rapid and cost-effective way
of learning lessons which can deepen the sectoral relevance of the Bank's other lending and policy work.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sectorissue                        pr tte
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Education (IDP and general)   Pilot Reconstruction Project         Satisfactory     Satisfactory
Other development agencies
UNICEF                        Pilot school finance and management
reform
Open Society Institute        World history textbook initiative
Various local and international  Relief-type education programs in
NGOs                          tented IDP camps and for psycho-
social rehabilitation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highiy Unsatisfactory)



Page I 1
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
One lesson from existing projects in Azerbaijan is that capacity building within Government agencies
is served best by trying to coordinate the project closely with the overall operations of the executing Ministry.
This has its risks (possibly slower implementation; need for more careful oversight and project management),
but the pay-off in terms of ownership and sustainability is high. The PIU for the project would report directly
to the Minister, though would be administratively and procedurally independent.
Another clear lesson is that buy-in from the relevant sectoral ministry needs to be complemented with
support from the Presidential Apparat and COM. This needs to be developed in the coming missions, but the
existence of the Presidential Decree is a useful tool in this process. An important step in this process was
taken during the appraisal mission, when there was a meeting between Bank staff and the President and all
members of the Education Reform Commission to discuss the draft Reform Program and the Bank's support
in its implementation.
There are concerns about corruption in Azerbaijan, which the Government is seeking to address in its
public sector reform strategy. While the education sector does not appear to be an acute case, the project will
seek to put in place controls that will minimize bad practices, including international procurement support etc.
At a minimum, the Bank's own procurement, disbursement and other project procedures must be followed
precisely, and the project design allows for this, in particular through up-front investments in foreign
assistance in setting up financial management and procurement systems and procedures. It is felt that the new
discipline of preparing PMRs under the LACI initiative should assist the process (though they are not
proposed as the basis for disbursement).
Experience from education reforms worldwide suggests that fundamental curriculum reform takes
time. The approach of the project is to expose key actors and policy makers to new methods and contents of a
modern curriculum, while acknowledging the areas of relative strength in existing curricula (such as
mathematics and science). It is not feasible under the project to support wholesale reform of all levels and
subjects, nor all associated areas of curriculum reform (such as textbook publishing and distribution). This
lesson is accepted by educational technocrats in Azerbaijan, but there continues to be the not-unusual political
incentives and pressure to introduce change quickly, broadly and visibly. Based on the experience of other
countries in the region and internationally, this has substantial risks, as overly-rapid attempts to design and
implement curriculum reform have proved counter-productive (e.g. Romania in the early 1990s).
In the area of teacher education, international experience suggests that the existing model of in-
service teacher education in Azerbaijan is not well-suited to emerging demands on teachers, especially during
a period of rapid curriculum change. Two relevant lessons of international experience are: (i) for pre-service
training, the trend towards putting trainee teachers into school-based training as early as possible in their
studies (which currently occurs only in the final year of training and for a limited period); and (ii) for in-
service training, the need for a more flexible retraining opportunities in terms of length of training, place and
source of education. The project will attempt to experiment with different channels and time periods for
providing teacher education.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Probably the most important indication of ownership is that the MOE has itself developed the draft
Education Sector Reform Strategy, and sees the project as an integral part of implementing the strategy. The
agreement on the priority of curriculum and TE reform has been strong and consistent throughout project
preparation. While work remains on that strategy, it is clear that the impetus for reform comes from
Government, and ultimately the President.
At the higher levels of Government, the Presidential Decree of March 1998 setting up the Education
Reform Commission not only demonstrated an increased interest at the highest level with the sector, but



Page 12
specifically referred to the World Bank as the Government's leading partner in the design and implementation
of educational reforms. In the meeting with the President and Education Reform Commission during the
appraisal mission, the President stressed the value which the country places on the Bank's financial and
technical support for the sector.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a unique potential role in the education sector in Azerbaijan. The major alternative
donors who could assume such a role are either not active in the sector to date (e.g., ADB; IsDB; USAID),
have budget constraints which limit the scale of their operations (e.g. UNICEF), or are not well suited under
their mandates to a broad scale systemic involvement in the sector (e.g. Soros Foundation). The importance
of education from a fiscal and public sector management viewpoint also gives the Bank a major advantage,
due to its linkages with other parts of the lending and ESW program.
E: Summary Project Antalysis
1. Economic:
[]Cost-Benefit Analysis:    [x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:   []Other
Consultancy will examine the cost-effectiveness of various project interventions. For example, pilot
schools would be compared to non-pilot schools with similar initial conditions in improving student learning
achievement (and teachers effectiveness and satisfaction) by introducing new curricula, new teaching
methods, and teacher training methods, as well as several key educational key inputs. In this context, school-
based assessment tools will need to be experimented with in order to monitor effectively.
2. Financial (see detailed discussion of FM issues in Annex 6):
Financial manageinent: To date, the financial management of the MOE appears to be weak, which
is one of the reasons for establishing the PIU with staff with financial management skills. To provide further
training to the PIU accountant, a foreign consultant is being recruited, using PHRD grant for the first months
immediately after negotiations, who will provide hands-on-training to the newly recruited local accountant in
setting up the accounting system for the PIU.
By effectiveness, a financial management system acceptable to the Bank will have been in place.
Disbursements will start using traditional disbursement methods - Statements of Expenditures (SOEs),
reimbursements, direct payrnent, etc. After the PIU has gained experience with the financial management
system and the reporting under project management reports (PMRs), and provided that a financial
management expert has reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, the Project would move to PMR-based
disbursements.
Disbursements will be made against SOEs for contracts for: goods less than US$50,000 equivalent;
works less than US$50,000 equivalent; and all operating expenditures. Contracts for works and goods
greater than US$50,000 would require prior review from the Bank. Disbursements would be made against
SOEs for consultant services or firm contracts less than US$50,000, individual consultant contracts for
US$10,000 or less, and training and recurrent costs. These documentations will be made available for the
required audit as well as to the Bank supervision mission, and will be retained by the PIU for at least one year
after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The
processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Credit and Borrower
counterpart financing wouldl be managed by the PIU, in coordination and consultation with the Ministry-of
Education and Ministry of Finance.



Page 13
The appraisal FMS assessment found that the existing financial management system is not adequate
as per Annex 4-C of the LACI Implementation Handbook. As a result, an action plan was developed during
the appraisal mission for strengthening the FMS to an acceptable level prior to project effectiveness (see
Annex 6).
SpecialAccount and Project Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government
will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account,
denominated in US Dollars, as well as a Project Account in local currency. The authorized allocation for the
Special Account will be US$500,000.
Fiscal impact: The project is expected to impose a minimal direct fiscal burden on Government, as
incremental financing demands are limited. It is also hoped that the proposed education cost/finance study
under the M&E component would provide inputs to reforms of the education finance system which would
improve efficiency in resource use and enhance systemic sustainability (e.g. increasing flexibility in allocation
and spending of non-salary line items). Finally, the curriculum reforms proposed could in the medium to long
term have a substantial impact on the aggregate demand for teachers, as the current inefficiencies of one
subject teaching in upper grades - most problematic in rural areas - should be gradually diminished. As
teachers account for around 50 percent of the public sector workforce, any reductions that can be created may
have major fiscal benefits.
3. Technical:
The project is consistent with recent developments in curriculum development and teacher training.
Various aspects of the project also provide some flexibility to test out different approaches in curriculum
reform, methods of teaching and learning at the classroom level, and in teacher training. Positive learning
experiences from the project would be incorporated both into the Government's current reform program and
future projects.
A particularly difficult technical issue will be defining new curricula in terms of inputs, process and
outcomes. While this is the stated goal of most OECD country developments, there are few - if any - solid
and tested examples of where this has been implemented successfully particularly in the context of the
transition economies.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The executing agency will be the Ministry of Education. The Ministry is a first-time
borrower, and has had limited exposure to significant programs with donors, so the difficulties of project
implementation should not be underestimated. This supports the need for a PIU reporting to the Minister of
Education to implement the project. The PIU staff would include a project director, a procurement specialist,
an accountant, and an administrative assistant and interpreter. Financing is provided under the project for an
international Project Advisor, who would make regular extended visits to Azerbaijan during at least the first
year of the project. There is also financing for a procurement specialist and a financial management specialist
to assist and train PIU staff, both of whom would be recruited prior to effectiveness under the PHRD and with
further funds available under the project.
b. Other actors: Other institutional issues that will need close attention during project implementation are: (i)
how to integrate parents and communities more fully into education management at the local level. This will
be especially important in Azerbaijan as the primary method of improving accountability in the system and in
the project; (ii) how to deal with TEI management which may feel that they would be losing control of the
teacher training process, as attempts are made to do more teacher education in schools themselves; and (iii)
the Ministry has indicated an interest in reforming the current institutional arrangements for curriculum
development, though the proposal is not yet well-developed. While this may have some significant benefits
in the long run, it also presents two major risks: (a) that the existing institutions involved in curriculum



Page 14
development resist and/or undermine the broader curriculum reform efforts; and (b) that the benefits of
improved coordination of curriculum development by rationalization of curriculum development institutions
may be outweighed by the risks of over-centralization of all aspects of curriculum development. On the latter,
it is hoped that the establishment of teacher resource centers in pilot TEIs might in time encourage creative
adaptation of the core curriculum by teachers, and help to offset this tendency, so that the details of syllabi are
eventually more determined at the school level.
5. Social:
There is a social assessment planned prior in the near future, though there have been delays in finding
funding. However, the local team to carry out the work has been identified, and is ready to proceed once
funding is confirmed (which is expected in the coming weeks). In the ECSSD review, it was agreed that draft
TOR would be shared with ECSSD staff. However, previous social assessments - both for the Poverty
Assessment and the Pilot Reconstruction Project - have focused in part on education and there are several
consistent findings: (i) even the poorest households place a high value on education of their children, with
qualitative findings confirmed by nationally representative household survey results finding even the very
poor spending an equal share of household income on education (though the absolute amounts vary
considerably); (ii) one of the reasons for the emerging extended absences from school is the perception that
educational quality has fallen, and that what is taught in schools in increasingly less relevant to the new
situation in the labor market; (iii) where households are able to afford it, there is an increasing reliance on
tutoring in secondary education, again reflecting quality concerns, and issues with the delinkage between
upper secondary curricula and university/higher education entrance examination and curricula; and (iv)
particularly in rural areas, structural inadequacies of schools - e.g. broken windows; no heating - are deterring
attendance in winter.
A major social concern is the increase in school non-attendance and drop-out rates. This is driven for
the most part by the need for children to earn income, and social assessments find that it is occurring for
children as young as 10 years old in the general population, and even younger for IDPs or street children. The
project will attempt to explore more closely how this can be stabilized, in part through improving
parent/school consultation in pilot schools, but also through the M&E component. At the moment, the MOE
and policy makers may underestimate the scope of the problem, and it is hoped that project monitoring can
focus their attention on it more squarely. If this can be done, it may be possible to experiment later in project
life with school-based program in pilot schools which would provide incentives for improved attendance from
children from poor households. This would seem to be an area where collaboration with NGOs or other
donors could be very effective.
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental Category      [ a A   [ I B   [XI C
The project was reviewed by Bank environment staff in December 1998, and found not to have any
specific environmental issues. The project was rated category C, and no Environmental Management Plan is
necessary. Civil works under the project are related to minor rehabilitation and refurbishment of pilot
schools, teacher training institutes, and curriculum centers. The review of the project noted that attention
should be paid to adequate water supply, sanitation and heating in all buildings to be refurbished under the
project. Attention could also be given to environmental issues in new curricula.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: During the project identification and pre-appraisal
missions - including field visits - particular attention was given to the fact that key stakeholders should be
involved in project preparation. Inputs from teachers, teacher trainers, and TEI managers, students, and-local
education officials were received and incorporated into the project design. However, more thorough and
systematic consultation will take place under the social assessment, which will address all these groups
through a combination of household surveys, key informant interviews, focus groups and case studies.



Page 15
Teacher groups would also be consulted in preparation of curriculum and teacher training. Project
implementation would aim to involve parent groups and local communities.
b. Other key stakeholders: To date, the project team has consulted the following: (i) BUTA - a local social
sector NGO; (ii) UNICEF; (iii) Open Society Institute (Soros); and (iv) UNHCR. A range of other NGOs
active in the education sector with IDPs have worked with members of the project team under the Pilot
Reconstruction Project and the Poverty Assessment, including Relief International, International Rescue
Committee, and Children's Aid Direct.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Azerbaijan is in the unusual position in the Caucasus that it is likely to have substantial oil revenues
in coming years. However, those revenues will not have a large impact on the budget for 5-8 years, and there
are issues of fiscal sustainability prior to then. An education finance study will attempt to frame the project
interventions and proposed systemic reforms in the fiscal context, and an assessment will be made of the cost-
effectiveness of various approaches offered by the curriculum reform and teacher education components.
To make curriculum reform effective, new curricula need to be translated into new textbooks and
supplementary reading materials, new teacher manuals and supplementary teaching materials etc. This is
very ambitious in the current fiscal environment. To address the provision of high quality textbooks to all
students, by involving private publishing sector, project-financed technical assistance on textbook publishing
and distribution will explore fiscally sustainable policies to provide textbooks to all students in compulsory
education (or at a minimum to students in grades 1-4, where there is a constitutional obligation to provide free
textbooks). The technical assistance would also assist the Government in the development of a policy
framework for textbook publishing and distribution. The technical assistance would be particularly important
after completing the development of curriculum, and at the stage of the preparation of new textbooks.
The more important sustainability issue is ownership by government at different levels and
communities. The project will experiment with different ways of mobilizing this, and the proposed
implementation arrangements aim to integrate the project's lessons into the mainstream activities of the MOE.
The close parallels between the Bank's assessment of priority reform areas and the MOE's are encouraging.
2. Critical Risks:
Lack of implementation capacity and weak      S         Establish PIU and train staff, TA and training on procurement
practices in project management                         and financial management; Project Advisor; close supervision;
CD's policy dialogue.
Project too complex for first time borrower  M-S        Components narrowed following PCD review; Project Advisor
with Bank project experience; intensive Resident Mission
collaboration and liaison with existing PlUs.
Pace of overall curriculum reform             M         Policy dialogue; President strongly supports gradual roll-out of
compromises quality and impact of curriculum            education reform (including curriculum).
component interventions
New textbooks are not available nationally    S         Explore other financing options from donors; collaborate with
Soros and other initiatives on textbook writing capacity
strengthening; textbook study on efficiency and sustainability
issues.



Page 16
Risk                    R                                          _isk Rail
Resistance of teachers to curriculum reforms  M         Teacher training leaders interested; consult teachers during
preparation and implementation, and create core trainers under
project with commitment; explore twinning arrangements with
foreign teacher training institutes.
MOE unwilling to borrow for necessary        M-S        Team international with local consultants; mobilize additional
international TA                                        grant funding; note need for TA to build capacity for roll-out
APL
Insufficient poverty focus                    M         Inclusion of Nakhichevan and rural areas in pilots; emphasize
equity issues in sectoral dialogue and financing studies; build
equity indicators into M&E component for pilot schools.
Overall Risk Rating                M-S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The pilot efforts to move teacher training away from single subject specialization to broader skills for
secondary teachers could be resisted on several grounds: (i) teachers might feel that this will lower the skills
level of teachers in specific subjects, as their skills are broadened; (ii) teacher trainers are unable to adapt
courses; (iii) teacher leaders understand the possible implications for possible reduction in the number of
teachers in the future; and (iv) pre-service institutions see the retooling of teachers in in-service institutions as
subsuming their roles.
Currently, the Ministry is planning to implement the new grade I curriculum nationwide in the
1999/2000 school year. This process may undermine the effectiveness of the implementation of curriculum
reform because of the lack of teacher training and availability of basic teaching and learning materials. If this
overall reform pace is retained, this risks the project being viewed as supporting the more rapid reform, and
being the subject of teacher and student/parent resistance.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  An adequate financial management system for the project is in place, which is consistent with agreed
steps under the Financial Management Action Plan, including recruitment of an international financial
management specialist;
*  At least 20 pilot schools have been selected in a manner and in accordance with criteria acceptable to
the Association;
*  The PIU has been established, and is staffed with a project director, deputy director (procurement
officer), accountant, and support staff;
*  A procurement Advisor to the PIU has been appointed with qualifications and under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association;
*   Independent auditors have been appointed by the Borrower with experience and qualifications and
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association;
*  The Project Account has been established in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association, and
an initial deposit made into the account in manat equivalent of US$10,000;
*   Draft bidding documents have been prepared for the first six months of project implementation1
Details specified in Minutes of Negotiations.



Page 17
2. Other covenants:
* The PIU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) which detail project financing
needs and sources for the subsequent quarter of project implementation, and describe the financial
situation of the project in terms of actual versus planned expenditures for each project activity;
* The PIU will provide an annual financial statement within six months after the end of each fiscal
year;
*  The PIU will ensure that the financial statement, special account, project account, and SOEs are
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards of auditing
acceptable to the Bank;
*  The PIU will properly maintain the Project Account;
*  The Government will provide adequate premises for the PIU for the duration of the project;
* The Government will ensure that counterpart contributions are paid into the Project Account in a
timely manner.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ]    The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
ofproject implementation. These have not yet been prepared, though there is an existing basis in the
engineering designs and documents for the Pilot Reconstruction Project, which targets schools of similar size
and design as those to be refurbished under the project. The school mapping and engineering assessment will
be performed as early as possible, probably using a local engineering firm.
[ ]   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and readyfor the start of
project implementation. Not yet, but will be prepared with international procurement assistance under the
PHRD grant, and supported by recruitment of PIU procurement staff member. A Procurement Assessment
was carried out during appraisal by a Bank procurement specialist. In terms of the overall country
procurement environment as required by LACI Implementation Handbook Annex 3 (e.g. legal framework),
this built on the recently completed PA for the Agriculture APL, and ongoing work under the procurement
IDF.
[ ]    The Project Implementation Plan has been worked on during the appraisal mission, and will attempt
to remain flexible, consistent with the LIL lending instrument and objectives. It is proposed that the draft PIP
be submitted to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.



Page 18
Task Team Leaders: Philip O'Keefe and lil undar
Sector Le   er      A
Sector Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Country Director: Ishrat Husain



Page 19
Annex 1
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal:
I1. Social policies that      1. Share of education in total    l. IMF ESAF/EFF          1. MOE, COM and
preserve Azerbaijan's        government expenditure,        education conditionality    Presidential
human capital and protect     and as share of GDP.          reviews                     Apparat share
those vulnerable to changes                                                              strategic vision
that are sweeping the      2. Percentage increase in      2. Technical work under        of education
economy.                      student enrollment and        public sector               reform
attendance rates              management and SAC II
2. A more rational system for                                                            2. MOF willing to
delivery of basic social   3. Revision of education       3. Work on social statistics  relax norm-base
services                     budgeting norms to allow       under IDF to Goskomstat     budgeting on
block allocation of non-                                   non-salary items
salary items                                               in education
budget
Project Development
Objective:
I. Improve the effectiveness    I.  Improved teacher        *   Education statistics    *   Draft Education
of teaching and learning in    effectiveness and              system, observation,        Reform
selected grades of general     satisfaction in pilot          interviews, and social      Strategy
schools in Azerbaijan         schools.                        assessments                 approved by
through: (i) supporting    2. Number of children          *   Baseline and analysis of    President
innovations in curriculum     improving in school-based       periodic achievement    *   Leaders of
content and the curriculum     assessments                   test results                teacher training
development process; (ii)   3.  Improved parent and the   *  A teacher evaluation         institutes buy-in
educatin   tcuerI              community participation        study                       to project
(including new teaching    4. Number of teachers trained   *  PIU progress reports       interventions
methods) and delivery         in new teaching methods    *  Mission supervision       *  Textbooks are
methods) and delivery   and curricula
mechanisms; and (iii)                                        reports                      available for
evaluating the impact of       Number of curculum                                         new curricula in
project interventions          developers exposed to                                      selected pilot
throug monitorig adinternational practice                                     schools
throug  moniing tan        6. Number of curriculum                                    *  Teachers are
evaluation in teacher
education institutions        fellows completing                                          provided
.TEs andpilot l, in  overseas graduate studies.                               sufficient
(rder and proidelotsoos in  7. Number of pilot schools                                   incentives to
order to provide lessons for   rehabilitated and                                         test new
broader sectoral reform,.eubsedtahn
refurbished                                               teaching
8. Number of teachers in pilot                                 methods
schools trained in new                                 *   Local education
curricula and teaching                                     authorities are
methods.                                                   supportive of
9. Number of training                                         the pilot school
sessions held by pilot TEIs                                experiment and
in pilot schools                                          the twinning
arrangements
between teacher



Page 20
training
colleges and
pilot schools
Outputs:                                                                                 (Outputs to
Objective)
I . Developed and adopted     1. Number of classes in pilot   1. PIU progress reports
new curricula in selected     schools with new curricula  2. Regular project         *  MOE
grades                        being taught               supervision missions, with      management
2.  Improved the quality and   2. Number of classes in pilot   active Resident Mission role  willing to
effectiveness of teacher     schools with new teaching                                   experiment with
education in pilot teacher    methods being used                                         new curricula
training institutes       3. Number of trainers of                                       and teaching
3.  Improved learning             teachers and teachers in                                   methods in pilot
achievement and               pilot schools trained                                      schools
enrollment and attendance
rates in pilot schools
4.  Increased collaboration
between in-service teacher
training institutions
5.  Increased relationship
between teacher training
institutions and schools in
providing teacher training
at the school level
6.  Developed teacher
training manuals
7.  Rehabilitated and
refurbished pilot teacher
training institutions
8.  Increased parent
involvement in education
a.  Project Components/ Sub-  Inputs: (total costs including                             (Components to
components: (see Annex    contingencies for each                                     Outputs)
2)                        component - figures may not
sum due to rounding)
1. Curriculum Reform                                         PIU and Bank monitoring
US$1.3 million                reports including:          Technical capacity
b. Technical assistance for                                  *   PIU progress reports    is readily available
development of new                                       *   Financial monitoring
curricula in selected                                    *   Disbursement reports
grades                                                   *  Procurement records
c.  Training, study tours and                                *   Contracts
fellowships for selected                                 *  Audits
curriculum specialists                                   *   Evaluation
d.  Refurbishing and
providing the necessary
equipment and supplies to
the Curriculum
Development Centers
e.  Operating costs of
curriculum center(s)
f.  Textbooks for pilot
schools and grades, and
printing new curricula



Page 21
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N r             1W1                                      _
2. Teacher Training
a. Training teacher trainers    US$3.5 million
in pilot teacher training
institutions
b. Providing teacher training
to teachers in pilot schools
(i) new curricula; (ii) new
teaching methods; and
(iii) re-training
c. Providing on-going school
management training to
pilot school
administrators;
d. Rehabilitating and
refurbishing pilot teacher
training institutes
e. Providing teacher
education materials and
resources to make pilot
teacher institutions
intoresource centers for
the education community
f.  Rehabilitating and
refurbishing pilot schools.
g. Mobilizing parental and
community resources in
support of education in
pilot schools
3. Project management
and monitoring and      US$0.7 million
evaluation
a. Providing an effective
management and
implementation of the
project
b. Carrying out periodic
progress reports
c. Building and
strengthening an effective
project management, and
monitoring evaluation
capacity in the Ministry of
Education.



Page 22
Annex 2
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Curriculum Reform (US$1.2 million base cost)
Since the project will be implemented over 3 years, it was agreed that curricula are unlikely to be
completed for all grades in general school, though much of the support on curricula for selected grades will be
relevant to all grades of general school (e.g. on curriculum development organization; active learning
methods). The project would support the curriculum reform in different ways, including:
*  international and local consultant support on main areas of curriculum development, including syllabus,
teaching methods, institutional issues, and assessment (including textbook development). This would
include an evaluation of how curriculum reforms and various teaching methods (teacher training)
affecting teaching and learning. The overall thrust of curriculum reforms include greater subject
integration - both within subject groupings within grades and across years - and increasing the share of
optional courses in upper grades;
*  training, fellowships and study tours: This would include training workshops with local and international
consultants for local curriculum developers and those training teacher trainers in new curriculum, a small
number of fellowships (2-3) for Azerbaijani specialists to undertake studies abroad in curriculum
development, and study tours to relevant countries in the region and Europe;
*  civil works: This would cover basic refurbishment for two curriculum development institutions, the SMC
and PRI. The balance of financing between institutions would be made on the basis of the overall plans
for the future of each curriculum development institution. Given available resources, this would not
involve major structural work;
*  equipment, materials and supplies: This would finance local curriculum developers to have access to
resource materials on international and regional practices in curriculum development and reform.
Equally, there will be needs for basic equipment in one or more curriculum development institutions;
*  Syllabi, textbooks and teacher guides: This would cover printing of new syllabi and teachers guides for
grade 1 nationally and grade 5 in pilot school in the first year, with phased roll-out into higher grades
thereafter. An second feature of this sub-component is the proposed project financing of printing of
textbooks for selected grades in pilot schools;
*  operating costs: This would cover the operating costs (salaries; utilities etc.) of the curriculum
development institution(s) participating in project-financed activities, and be part of the Government
contribution.
The description of the component by expenditure category does not reflect fully the process
innovations intended to be supported under the component, which include a more consultative curriculum
development process. This is hoped to have important demonstration effects.
Project Component 2 - Teacher education and pilot schools (US$3.2 million base cost)
This component will have two sub-components: pilot TEIs and pilot schools in 5 proposed regions
(Baku/Sumgayit, Lenkoran, Nakhichevan, Genje). These would be in the same pilot regions, which would be
selected by the MOE in consultation with the Bank. The selection of pilot TEIs would need to be confirmed
prior to effectiveness, and would be done by the MOE, in consultation with the proposed TEIs, the relevant
local authority, and the Bank. The selection of pilot schools would be done by the central MOE, base don the
recommendation of the district MOE and in consultation with the Bank. Decisions on selection of pilot
districts, TEIs and schools would be subject to the Bank's no objection.



Page 23
Pilot TEIs (US$ 1.3 million base cost). This component would work with in-service TEIs in pilot
regions, and probably one pre-service TEI. The project would support capacity building and reorientation of
these selected institutions. This would require development of new teacher training materials in selected
areas, and working with the MOE and pilot TEIs to strengthen their training capacity and diversify provision
of in-service training. The project focus would be on technical assistance on teacher training and teaching
methods, training (of teacher trainers), minor rehabilitation and refurbishment of institutions, and financing
training materials, equipment, materials and supplies. This would include an evaluation of how various
teacher training initiative financing under the project were affecting teaching and learning, both in pilot TEls
and in pilot schools. Operating expenses (e.g., salaries and maintenance and operation) would be financed by
the Government, as part of its counterpart contribution.
Pilot schools (US$ 1.9 million base cost). About 20 pilot schools in the five pilot districts will be
selected in the areas where teacher training institutions are located to assess and evaluate new curricula
developed and teaching methods for selected grades. The selection process is set out in an attachment to the
Minutes of Negotiations. The project would finance teaching materials (including textbooks, supplies, and
other selected materials), equipment, training for both teachers and administrators, and modest rehabilitation
and refurbishment of pilot schools as part of the improvement of the learning environment. In addition, the
training and outreach activities would aim to strengthen parent and community involvement in school
operations. Operating expenses (e.g., salaries and maintenance and operation) would be financed by the
Government as part of its counterpart contribution.
The component would finance the following activities:
-  training of trainers through workshops, short courses, seminars, study tours about new curricula and
teaching methods, including non-TEI-based provision of training for teachers;
-  training of teachers and principals through seminars, workshops, short courses about new curricula and
teaching methods;
i  providing technical support to establish twinning arrangements between pilot teacher training institutes.
and pilot schools;
*  providing support to pilot teacher training institutes to become a teacher training resource center in the
raion. In this respect, the support would include textbooks, references, and other learning materials.
Project management and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) component (US$0.6 million base cost)
Project management ($0.4 million base cost). This component would support the operation of the
PIU during project life, including training, equipment and salaries. This would include support for a PIU
Director, PIU staff for financial management, procurement and administration, and basic equipment needs.
They would be supported by international consultancy for a Project Advisor, and procurement and financial
management specialists.
Monitoring and evaluation ($0.2 million base cost). This sub-component is a crucial part of the
purposed project because of its learning and innovation aspects. For this reason, the project would support
not only M&E of a set of key performance indicators to monitor of project impact, but also several studies to
evaluate the effectiveness of innovative elements. (A set of key indicators is proposed in Annex 1). The
project would also finance several key evaluation studies about the performance progress and effectiveness of
the project: (1) education cost and finance study; (2) textbook publishing and distribution policy study; and
(3) financing of Azerbaijan's participation in the OECD PISA study, which focuses in developing
internationally comparable measures of student achievement. These studies would provide the sectoral
analysis which could form the basis of future investment operations. In addition, social assessments would be
financed from trust fund sources - following up on the baseline SA undertaken during project preparation - in
the pilot raions about the effectiveness of the project with a particular focus on quality improvement and
equity implications.



Page 24
There will be a detailed mid-term review at the end of the second year of the project implementation
to assess the overall performance of the project, and identify successful elements for wider application in a
follow-up project. The review will involve the following elements: (i) the status of curriculum development
and implementation; (ii) the status of teacher training both in teacher training institutions and pilot schools;
(iii) the extent to which community participation is provided in pilot schools; and (iv) the extent to which
instructional materials (including textbooks) are provided in pilot schools.
Given the weak technical capacity within the MOE to collect and analyze the key performance
indicators about the implementation and performance of the project, a modest effort will be made to improve
technical capacity within the MOE's two units that are critical for the implementation and success of the
project: Departments of Economics and General Education. The support for capacity building in these two
units would include equipment and some training for the key policy makers.



Page 25
Annex 3
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Estimated Project Costs
1. Curriculum Development                                        0.1               1.1             1.2
2. Teacher education
(a) Pilot TEls                                                0.3                1.0            1.3
(b) Pilot schools                                             0.4                1.5            1.9
3. Monitoring and evaluation
(a) PIU                                                       0.0               0.4             0.4
(b) M&E                                                       0.0                0.2            0.2
Total                                                            0.8               4.2             5.0
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                         0.1               0.3            0.4
Price Contingencies                                           0.0                0.1            0.1
Total Project Cost                                               1.0               4.6             5.5
Figures may not sum due to rounding.



Page 26
Annex 4
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ m)
FY 00    FY01 ,                   T        It
Project Costs
Investment Costs                             2.0        2.6       0.5       5.1
Recurrent Costs                              0.1        0.2       0.1       0.4
Total                         2.1        2.8       0.6       5.5
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IDA                                                                         5.0
Government                                                                   0.5
Others
Total                                                                           5.5
Figures may not sum due to rounding.



Page 27
Annex 5
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Project will be implemented through a PIU located in the Ministry of Education and would have
a full time Director, Deputy Director who would also be responsible for procurement work, an accountant,
and other support staff. The PIU would report directly to the Minister of Education. A formal procurement
capacity assessment of the PIU was carried out by a Bank procurement specialist which indicates a very weak
capacity for handling procurement of goods, works, and services in accordance with Bank procedures and
guidelines. Since the Director and the Deputy Director have very little experience in Bank financed
procurement and financial management requirements they would be supported by an international
procurement specialist initially for a period of four to six months, and a financial management specialist for
around four months both prior to and following effectiveness. These two experts would be recruited prior to
Project Effectiveness under the PHRD Grant and would continue after the Credit becomes effective. The
procurement consultant would assist in the procurement of goods and works and consulting services, and
provide on the job training to the Deputy Director. The financial management specialist would assist in
establishing financial management systems and financial management and accounting systems for the PIU
and provide on the job training to the accountant. The Bank would review the PIU's capacity for procurement
handling after four months before terminating the procurement consultant's contract. A General Procurement
Notice will be published in Development Business in May 1999. A Project Launch Workshop will be
conducted prior to Effectiveness.
Civil works, goods and services financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines published in January 1995 including all revisions up to January 1999. The main
project activities and proposed procurement methods are set out in Table 5.2 below. A procurement plan for
project implementation is set out in Table 5.4 below. The proposed procurement arrangements for the project
would be as follows:
Procurement of civil works: Total costs of civil works during the project period is estimated at US$1.3
million, with 10 percent of the total financed from Government sources and the remainder from IDA. The
works would require refurbishment of existing educational facilities rather than major structural repairs, and
would be for: (i) 2 curriculum development institutions; (ii) the five pilot teacher training institutions; and (iii)
the 20 pilot schools. Each contract is estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract. These contracts will
be grouped into larger packages for NCB. Implementation would take place over the first two years of the
project. The proposed procurement method is NCB for contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000 each.
The Borrower will use the sample bidding documents dated September 1995, developed by ECA Region. All
the NCB contracts will be subject to prior IDA review.
Procurement of Goods: The total estimated cost of goods is US$1.74 million. These would include teacher
training materials and other educational resource materials (including audio-visual), textbooks, syllabi and
teacher guides, office furniture and teaching supplies, and computers and other office equipment.
National shopping: Procurement of readily available off the shelf goods estimated to cost less than $50,000
per contract up to an aggregate of $405,000 will be procured by using national shopping on the basis of
quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers.
National competitive bidding: Printing of textbooks, teacher syllabi, teacher guides, etc. will be procured
using NCB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines not to exceed an aggregate of $530,000.



Page 28
International shopping (IS): Procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract shall be
procured on the basis of international shopping for an aggregate of US$830,000. These procedures will
require at least three quotations from two different countries.
Consultant Services and training: The total estimated cost of consultant services and training (including
study tours and fellowships) is $2.0 million. Consulting services and training will be awarded following the
World Bank "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 1997, as revised in September 1997 including all revisions up to January 1999. The following
procurement methods will be used:
Quality and Cost-based selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant services relating to curricula
reforms and teacher education in monitoring and evaluation up to an aggregate amount of $700,000. This
will be packaged as one or more firm bids, to minimize contract management demands on the PIU, and
improve coordination between different tasks.
Single Source Services for international monitoring assessment estimated to cost $40,000 in aggregate shall
be contracted to OECD on a sole source basis. The OECD is uniquely qualified to perform the assessment
since the quality of assessment required is of critical importance to the success of the project objectives.
Consultant Qualification (CQ) Services for monitoring and evaluation systems, studies, selected training and
study tours, and fellowships will be contracted on the basis of CQ method. The total aggregate for CQ will
not exceed $500,000.
Individual consultant selection will be used for small assignments throughout the life of the project, including
where local consultants are needed for limited duration assignments. The estimated cost of total contracts
using this method is US$275,000.
Training, Study Tours and Fellowships ($460,000). The services for training activities, study tours and
fellowships-other than those specified under Consultant Qualifications above-will be procured on a
competitive basis in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank prior
to Effectiveness a training program for its approval.
Review by Bank of procurement decisions:
Scheduling ofprocurement: Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposed procurement
plan for the project prepared during the appraisal mission will be reviewed by the PIU, and the Bank will be
advised of any revisions for its review in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Annex I of the
Procurement Guidelines. Procurement of civil works, goods and services for the project will be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan which will be modified as appropriate and included in the
progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior review: (a) Civil Works: Prior review of bidding documents, bid evaluation and recommendation for
award as well as draft contract will be carried out for all NCB contracts; (b) Goods: Prior review of bidding
documents, including review of evaluation, recommendation of award and contract will be conducted for all
the IS contracts and NCB contracts for printing, and the first two contracts under NS; (c) Consulting
Services: Terms of reference for all consulting and training assignments will be subject to prior Bank review.
Request for Proposals (RFP), short lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and
recommendation for award will be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for individual consultants above
$10,000 and firms above $50,000. All documents and recommendations involving sole source contracting
will also be subject to Bank approval and prior review.



Page 29
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of a
contract resulting in an increase above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank will reserve the right to
prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for consulting services).
Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of three and a half years,
which includes six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is
no standard disbursement profile for Azerbaijan, the disbursement forecast is based on the Bank's experience
in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other projects in Azerbaijan. The Project
Completion Date is estimated to be June 30, 2002 and the Closing Date is estimated to be December 31, 2002.
Following a request from the MOE and consultation with the disbursement officer, retroactive
financing is proposed in the amount of US$200,000 (SDR 150,000). This would be mainly for syllabi,
teachers guides, training, and software, as retroactive financing would enable rapid start-up of training and
materials preparation for the grade I curriculum reform.
Table 5.1: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Civil Works                            1.1       90% of expenditures
2. Consulting Services                    1.1       100%
3. Training, Fellowships & Study Tours    0.7       100%
4. Goods                                   1.6      100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
5. Recurrent Costs                        .05       100% of expenditures incurred
through June 30, 2000; 90% of
expenditures incurred through
June 30, 2001; and 80% of
expenditures incurred thereafter.
6. Unallocated                            0.5
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the credit are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) as follows: (a) goods and works costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each contract;



Page 30
(b) services for contracts for (i) individuals costing less than US$10,000 equivalent each; and (ii) firms
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) training, study tours and fellowships; and (d) incremental
operating costs of the PIU and project implementing institutions. Disbursements against goods and services
exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation and respective procurement guidelines.
SOEs will be certified locally by the PCU. Related documentation in support of SOEs will not be submitted
to the Bank, but will be retained by the PCU for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of the audit report
for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This documentation will be made available for review by
the auditors and Bank supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, included those not justified by the
evidence furnished, or amounts in excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the Special
Accounts (SA), the Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise
this right until the Borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted
evidence of other eligible expenditures that the Bank can use to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank, acceptable to the
Bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
limited to US$250,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the credit have reached SDR
1,500,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to an authorized allocation of $0.5 million by submitting
the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The minimum amount of each application should be 20 percent of
the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months, and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
It was also agreed during negotiations that a separate Project account in local currency be maintained
at a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of Government counterpart contributions. This
would be used only for local expenditures of a minor nature, and subject to the same financial management
procedures applicable to the SA.
The PIU will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the Bank under
the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or
reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized financial management system will be established at the
PIU with the assistance of a foreign FM specialist. The Project Financial and Accounting Officer at the PCU
will maintain consolidated accounts for the project and will prepare quarterly financial reports as part of
PMRs. The accounts will be maintained for all project funds, (see Annex 6 for details of financial
management arrangements).



Page 31
2
Table 5.2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works
Civil Works                                         1.3                                           1.3
(1.2)                                         (1.2)
2. Goods
Equipment and Materials                                           1.23                            1.2
(1.2)                          (1.2)
Printing (books & syllabus)                        0.53                                           0.53
(0.53)                                        (0.53)
3. Services
Technical Assistance &
Consulting Services                                               1.24                            1.2
(1.2)                          (1.2)
Training, study tours,                                             0.85                            0.8
fellowships, etc.                                                (0.8)                           (0.8)
4. Miscellaneous
Recurrent Costs                                                     456                            .45
(.05)                          (.05)
Note:                                                                          I2 N.B.F. =Not Banik-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies u"nder
trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed
under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
Figures may not sum due to rounding
IS 830,000, NS 405,000
4 QCBS 700,000; CQ 500,000; IC 275,000; Single Source 40,000
5 Training packages, study tours and fellowships will be procured in accordance with Bank consultant guidelines and with prior
consultation with IDA.
6 These costs are to be reimbursed on the basis of annual budgets to be approved by the IDA.



Page 32
Table 5.3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review7
- i                                                                       ',,   ,  , ,,,,,,,,Ot
US $ thousands                                       US $ millions
1. Works
Above 200            ICB
Under 200            NCB                                      1.3
2. Goods                       Below 100            IS                                        .83
Below 200            NCB                                       .53
Below 50            NS                                        .41
3. Services
QCBS                                      .70
Individual consultants                   .27
CQ                                        .16
Sole Source                              .04
4. Training Packages8                                                                         .70
5. Miscellaneous
Recurrent Expenditures  SOEs                                        .45
TOTAL 5.39
8 Training activities, study tours and fellowships will be organized during the life of the project for teachers, trainers, etc. The training
packages will be procured in accordance with Bank consultant guidelines with prior consultation of the Bank.



Page 33
Table 5.4: Procurement Plan
Goods and Consultant Services
1.           2.          3.             4.            5.                   6. Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description     Type      Number of    Estimated    Procurement    Prepare    Invitation to       Award       Contract
slices/items/    cost         Method       Tendering        Bid        Contract    Completion
sub-packages
I Civil Works
Rehabilitation of    CW         5             800          NCB        Oct. 99      Nov. 99       Jan. 00       Sept. 00
Pilot Schools
Rehabilitation    CW            4             337          NCB        Oct. 99      Nov. 99       Jan. 00       May 00
Teacher Tmg.
Institutes
Rehabilitation of    CW          1            166          NCB        Aug. 99       Sept. 99     Nov. 99       March 00
Curriculum
Centers
II Goods
Computers and      G            2             125            IS       July 99       Aug. 99      Sept. 99      Sept. 99
office equipment                                                      July 00       Aug 00       Sept. 00      Sept. 00
for Curriculum
Ctrs. and MOE
Supplies for       G            3             135           NS        July 99       Aug 99       Sept 99       Sept. 99
curriculum ctrs.                                                      May 00        July 00      July 00       Aug 00
and teacher trng.                                                     May 00        July 01      July 01       Aug 01
Institutes
Educational        G            2             110            IS       July 99       Aug 99       Sept 99       Sept 99
Materials and                                                         July 00       Aug 00       Sept 00       Sept 00
publications for
Curric. Ctrs.
Furniture for      G            2             60            NS        Dec-Jan 00    Jan-Feb. 00   March 00     March 00
Curriculum Ctr.
Equipment for      G            2             190            iS       Jan-Feb 00    Mar-Apr 00   April-May 00  Sept-Oct. 00
pilot schools                   4             150           NS
Syllabus and       G             1            50           NCB        June 99       July 99      Aug. 99       Sept. 99
teaching instr.
Printing                                                                                                                    .



Page 34
1.           2.           3.            4.             5.                   6. Estimated Dates for Contracts
Description     Type      Number of    Estimated    Procurement    Prepare    Invitation to         Award        Contract
slices/items/     cost         Method       Tendering        Bid        Contract    Completion
sub-packages
Syllabus and        G            2             130          NCB         June 01      July 01       Aug. 01       Sept. 01
teaching instr.
printing
Textbooks           G            I             100           NCB        June 99      July 99       Aug. 99       Sept. 99
Textbooks           G            2             250           NCB        March 00     Apr 00        May 00        June 00
March 01     Apr 01        May 01        June 01
PIU Office          G            1             40            NS         June. 99     June 99       July 99       Aug. 99
Furniture
PIU Computers       G            1             20            NS         Sept. 99     Oct. 99       Nov. 99       Dec. 99
Educational         G            2             170            IS        Sept. 99     Oct. 99       Nov. 99       Dec. 99
Materials and                                                           Sept. 00     Oct. 00       Nov. 00       Dec. 00
Publications
Computers and       G            2             150            IS        Aug. 99       Sept. 99     Oct. 99       Nov. 99
Office Equip. for                                                       Aug. 00       Sept. 00     Oct. 00       Nov. 00
Trng. Institutes                                                                                            _
Furn. for Teacher   G            1             85             IS        Jan. 00      Feb.00        March 00      April 00
Trng. Institutes  I _     I              I                            I             I_I                         I _   _I
III. Consultant Services and Training
Curric. Reform &     CS           2             670          QCBS        July 99      Sept. 99      Dec. 99       Dec. 01
Teacher Education
and Monitoring and
Evaluation TA
Project Advisor      CS           1             80          Individual
Training,            TR         several        340'         Consultant   Training activities will be organized during the life of the
fellowships and                                           Qualifications  project for teachers, trainers, etc. The training packages will
study tours                                                              be procured in accordance with Bank consultant guidelines
(Institutes & pilots)                                                    with prior consultation of the Bank.
OECD study           CS           1             40         Sole source   Sole source to OECD for international monitoring assessment.
Monitoring &         CS           3             160         Consultant   Annual audit due by end of each project FY.
Evaluation &                                              Qualifications
Studies                    I             I               I             I_ _
Remaining training fellowships and study tours will be arranged consistent with DCA and SOE thresholds and Bank Guidelines.



Page 35
PIU Mgmt. and         CS           5             195         Individual   Series of consultant contracts throughout the life of the
Technical Staff                                                           project.
(Proc. Cons., FMS)    _
IV Recurrent Costs
Staff salaries,     Other                        425                      Reimbursement on the basis of annual budgets to be approved
utilities, equip                                                          by the Bank.
O&M, telecom and
op. expenses
Total
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding



Page 36
Table 5.5: Summary of Procurement Activities
Percentage of Credit amount subject
Civil Works                                NCB                  Minor Works                                                to prior review
Procurement thresholds         Less than 200,000
Aggregates                            1,300,000
Prior review                       All packages
Goods                                       ICB                            Is                   NS                  NCB
Procurement thresholds           Above 100,000              Less than 1 00,000            Less than       Less than~
50,000         200,000
Aggregate                                                            830,000               405,000         530,000
Prior Review                                All                          All             The first 2            All
Consultants                               QCSIndividual                                  Consultant         Single Source
Qualification
Aggregates                             700,000                       275,000               500,000          40,000
Prior Review                All TORs, RFPs,           TORs for all consulting       TORs and short
evaluation. Reports, and  assignments; TORs and        lists.
contracts for assignments   contracts for assignments
costing above 50,000 per   above 10,000.
contract.
Expost Review               In-depth review of procurement activities during supervision missions. Yearly financial audits by acceptable firm selected competitivel.
Brief statement
PROPOSED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT.
The Project will be implemented by a PIU reporting to the Minister of Education. The PIU has no procurement capacity. The Project team recommends that procurement related
technical assistance for a minimum period of four months should be provided to assist the PIU in Project procurement and to provide on the job training to the Deputy Director who
will be responsible for the procurement work. The Bank would review the procurement capacity of the PIU after a period of four to six months. The project team would organize a
project launch workshop at the earliest possible opportunity, before the date of Effectiveness. In addition the Deputy Director and the Director should also undergo procurement
training courses conducted by the Bank at HQ or through other training sources at the earliest opportunity. A detailed operation manual shall be prepared by the Borrower and
submitted to the Bank for approval. This operational manual shall provide detailed guidelines and procedures governing the project activities including procurement.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:  Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by
CPAR is under preparation. NO                                                       negotiations
Yes   03    No X



Page 37
Estimated date of Project Launch  Estimated date of publication of    Indicate if there is procurement  Domestic Preference for  Domestic Preference for Works,
Workshop                         General Procurement Notice      subject to mandatory SPN in       Goods                       if applicable
Development Business
June 1999                                  May 1999                      Yes    No  X              Yes X    No                 Yes         No X
Retroactive financing
Yes 0      No  X   Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The Bank financed PIU will include a procurement officer and a procurement consultant. The consultant will initially oversee
all the procurement under the project. The consultant will also set up and maintain a complete procurement record for all components. Evaluation committees will be established
upon commencement of procurement activities. A detailed operation manual will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval. Periodic supervision missions will review
financial and procurement records. The PIU will submit quarterly progress reports on all contracts.
Co-financing: N/A
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project: Education Reform        Name: Ronald Venezia, ECSHD
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Not anticipated.



Page 38
Annex 6
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Financial Management
General:
A review of Financial Management System has been undertaken to (a) review the presence of the
necessary elements for sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project accounting,
project staffing and audit arrangements; (b) assess the project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of
LACI; and (c) prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve
Project Management Reports (PMR) that would assist the implementing agency to move towards LACI.
Project Management and Coordination and Staffing:
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be directly responsible for financial management during
project life. The MOE (through its Finance and Economics Department) has to date been responsible for
managing the PHRD grant of US$295,000, and would transfer this responsibility to the PIU staff.
The PIU has recruited a full time Accounting Officer who will be provided with proper training before the
project becomes effective, by a foreign consultant under PHRD grant and then under the credit itself, and with
TORs satisfactory to the Bank. The Accountant would be responsible for financial management and control
under the PHRD and the project itself and would report to the PIU Director. Technical assistance would be made
available to the PIU in project and financial management during the first year of project implementation. This
would include training workshops for the PIU and project coordination staff at the local level. In addition, the
MOE and project team will attempt to mobilize additional grant funding from other sources to provide either
ongoing or short-term accounting and financial management expertise within the PIU.
The overall budget for the PIU will be $0.4 million - including the costs of foreign advisors - of which the
equipment budget will be around $25,000, in addition to the $18,000 that has been allocated under the PHRD
grant. These allocations cover the entire period of project implementation. The PIU is to receive three computers
and other basic office equipment (i.e., printer, fax, copier) out of PHRD funds, in addition to the equipment under
the credit. The PIU has office space in the main MOE premises.
Accounting:
A project financial and accounting program will be developed prior to effectiveness, with support from
the Bank financial management expert, and in coordination with existing PIUs in Azerbaijan (see below under
auditing for proposal to mobilize additional TA funding for an external consultant to assist in this process). Given
the project size and the needs for project oversight and preparation of project documentation such as PMRs, this
will be kept as simple as possible. The system to be designed should have, inter alia, an accounting and internal
control system with the capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner, all financial transactions under the
project. The system will: (a) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the
project; and (b) provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities. The
accounting system will be classified by component; it will reflect the sources of funds, and will be broken down
into different types of expenditures for the project. Furthermore, it will provide information on the receipt and
use of funds and will be able to produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given
time. The system will be capable of providing financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs
of the project.



Page 39
Financial Reporting:
By effectiveness, an acceptable financial management system will have been in place. Disbursements
will start using traditional disbursements methods - SOEs reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the PIU
has gained experience with the financial management system and reporting under project management reports
(PMRs), and provided that an improved financial management system is reviewed and found satisfactory by the
Bank, the project will move to PMR-based disbursements. The PIU will maintain accounts for the Project and
will be responsible for preparing Project Management Reports (PMR) on a quarterly basis, and furnish to the
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period, which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by the said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project for the six-month
period following the period covered by said report and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation
targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed out of
the proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Project Implementation Manual (PIM):
Given the rapid preparation timetable of a LIL, the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) would be
prepared in the nearest future, and would include: (a) the financial management system proposed under the
project, with special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (b) the role of
the financial management systems in project management and implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements
required for project management, the format for and content of project financial reporting; and (d) the auditing
arrangements that will be used during project implementation.
Auditing:
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statements, Special Account, and SOEs are
audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are
acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a
format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs against which disbursements have
been made or are due to be made from the Credit and SOEs which will be included in the audit report
accompanying the financial statements.
The audited financial statements of the Special Account and Project Account, and SOEs of the preceding
fiscal year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of
expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and
internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of
project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project implementing entities have maintained
adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank
are eligible for financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures.



Page 40
The estimated overall budget for auditing under the project would be around $50,000, which appears to be
reasonable, given the size of the project, and existing in-country auditing capacity. Auditing services would be
procured on a least-cost basis, and packaged as a recurring audit, with no requirement for a new engagement
letter, except in the special circumstances.
Bank FMS staffing and supervision:
The project was discussed in detail by Bank FMS during a workshop in January 1999 on Financial
Management in HD Projects, and the unanimous recommendation of the FMS was that the country environment
and implementing agency capacity suggested that the project not use PMR-based disbursement. An ECSHD
financial staff has since been working with the regional financial management team, who has provided useful
advice on FM issues. The ECSHD financial specialist came on appraisal to conduct the financial management
assessment in coordination with staff from ECSCS, and would most likely have to return prior to effectiveness to
monitor performance on the FM action plan. The FM procedures and assessment of the financial staff would be
included in the PIM. During project life, an FMS would take part in supervision missions to monitor the FM of
the PIU and ensure compliance with ongoing FM covenants.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account, denominated in US Dollars. The minimum
amount of the application should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation. The replenishment applications
should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.
The Govemment will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the IDA
under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or
reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is envisaged to be established at the PIU.
Once trained, the Accountant at the PIU would maintain and prepare quarterly financial reports as part of Project
Management Reports.
Accounting software and assessment of Y2K risks:
Bank FM staff has prepared a database with a range of financial accounting software packages which are
typically available off-the-shelf in many countries. These range in cost from around US$300-$20,000, though the
project size suggests that the lower end of the range would be adequate in this instance. During the appraisal
mission the project needs, staff capacity, and availability of accounting software was discussed and agreed with
the Borrower on a short list of potential accounting software for the project. It is not anticipated that either
hardware or software to be purchased under the PHRD or the project will have Y2K compatibility problems. This
issue was discussed with the MOE and the PIU during appraisal. Appropriate contractual provisions will be made
to ensure compatibility.
Conclusion:
Since the project does currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, an
Action Plan is presented below which requires the PIU to design and implement a satisfactory financial
management system to address above issues. Once the time-bound Action Plan is carried out successfully, it is
believed that the project will, by then, have developed an accounting system that will be able to produce the
required level of financial management reports in a timely fashion.



Page 41
Action Plan:
In order to ensure that the project will have sound financial management system in place following time-
bound Action Plan is presented'0:
1.      Select Auditors                                                    Prior to Effectiveness
2.      Select and Purchase Accounting Software                              May 1999
This will include:
Defining the requirements of an accounting software, e.g.,
Multi-currency capability (transactions and reporting);
Language capability (e.g., Russian, English);
Accounting policies;
*     Reports required;
Contract monitoring and control; and
Compatibility with other project hardware and software (e.g.,
hardware IBM-compatible, software Windows-compatible, etc.)
3.      Install, Design Accounting System, and Trial-Run Software            June 20, 1999
This will include:
Designing accounting flows and controls;
*     Flow of information/documents;
*     Flow of money;
Internal controls; and
*     Frequency of transaction and controls.
Design requiredfinancial reports, e.g.
Local accounting requirements;
Local tax requirements;
World Bank requirements;
Other donor requirements;
*     Trust fund requirements;
*     Reporting currencies; and
Accounting policies.
4.      Complete Financial Management Report                                 3 months after Effectiveness
5.      Open Special Account                                                 Prior to Effectiveness
6.      Visit by Financial Specialist to verify financial arrangements in place  Prior to Effectiveness
10 Dates will be reviewed in consultation with IDA.



Page 42
Annex 7
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$95,000               $95,000 (est.)
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      Six months           Six months
First Bank mission (identification)             09/12/1998           09/12/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     03/14/1999           03/14/1999
Negotiations                                    03/26/1999           03/27/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/31/1999            _/_/19_
Prepared by: Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant for $295,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Philip O'Keefe                            HD Economist and co-TTL
Halil Dundar                              Education Economist and co-TTL
Marit Granheim                            Senior Education Specialist
Ross Pavis                                Operations Analyst
Rasul Bagirov                             Operations Officer (RM)
Richard James                             Financial specialist
Michael Mills                             Principal HD Economist
Hannah Koilpillai                         Disbursement Officer
Jagdish Jassal                            Senior Procurement Specialist
Dilek Barlas                              Counsel
Ranjan Ganguli                             Financial Management Specialist
Peter Darvas                              Education Economist
Bruno Laporte                             Peer Reviewer
Eluned Roberts-Schweitzer                 Peer Reviewer
Carmen Laurente                            Team Assistant



Page 43
Annex 8
Azerbaijan: Education Reform Project (LIL)
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
In draft and to be finalized as Condition of Effectiveness
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Financial Management Assessment
*  Procurement Assessment
*  Draft Education Sector Note
*  Detailed Cost tables
*  Technical comments to MOE on draft Education Reform Program
C. Other
*  Report of Peter Cole on Curriculum Organization and Institutional Issues
*  Curriculum and Assessment Reform in Azerbaijan: Robert Dudley and Hitendra Pillay
*  Mission reports of MOE Advisor
*  Draft Teacher Education report of Bernard Masters and local consultant team
*  Terms of reference for PHRD assignments on curriculum, syllabus, teacher education, and textbooks.
*  Draft Education Reform Program for Republic of Azerbaijan (prepared by the Commission on
Education Reform)
*Including electronic files.



Page 44
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Azerbaijan
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions             disbursements a/                 Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                                         Supervision Rating b/
Project ID   Year           Borrower                      Purpose
IBRD       IDA        Cancel.  Undisb.        Orig       Frn Rev'd         Dev Obj    Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: I
Active Projects
AZ-PE-8288    1995   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN  BAKU WATER SUPPLY                          0.00        61.00       0.00     28.75           25.30           0.00       S             S
AZ-PE-8282    1995   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN  PETROLEUM TA                               0.00        20.80       0.00     14.24           1171           0.00       S             S
AZ-PE-8283    1996   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN  INSTITUTION BUILDING                       0.00        18.00       0.00      8.10            5,18           0.00       S             S
AZ-PE-40544   1997   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN   FARM PRIVATIZATION                        0.00        14.70       0.00     10.29            4.11           0.00       S             S
AZ-PE-8287    1997   REP. OF AZERBAUAN  GAS REHAB                                   0.00        20.20       0.00     14.79            3.18           0.00       U            S
AZ-PE-55155   1998   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN   URGENT ENV. INVEST.                       0.00        20.00       0.00     20.85             .17           0.00       S             S
AZ-PE-41261   1998   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT                      0.00        70.00       0.00     36.86           35.26           0.00       S             S
CREDIT
AZ-PE-35770   1999   REP. OF AZERBAIJAN  PILOT RECONSTRUCTION                       0.00        20.00       0.00     20.85            1.51           0.00       S             S
Total                                                                               0.00       244.70       0.00    154.73           86.42           0.00
Active Projects     Closed Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               82.40             61.42             143.82
of which has been repaid:                   0.00              0.00               0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              244.70              65.00            309.70
Amount sold:                                   0.00               0.00              0.00
Of which repaid:                             0.00               0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed:                           154.73               0.00            154.73
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U  unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement datq is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 45
Azerbaijan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jan-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Credit  Equity   Quasi  Partic  Credit  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997/98                Baku Coca Cola          9.63    2.30    0.00    0.00    9.63    2.30    0.00    0.00
1998                   Azerb. JV Bank           0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   SEF Azdemiryol            .50    0.00    0.00    0.00      .09    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   SEF Azerigaz             .40    0.00    0.00    0.00       .40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   SEF Rabitabank            .40    0.00    0.00    0.00      .30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   Amoco Caspian          32.83    0.00    0.00   12.31   24.62    0.00    0.00   12.31
1999                   Early Oil Fin           15.44    0.00    0.00    5.79   11.58    0.00    0.00    5.79
1999                   Lukoil                  19.30    0.00    0.00    7.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   Turkish Petrol          13.03    0.00    0.00    4.89    9.77    0.00    0.00    4.89
1999                   Unocal Chirag           19.40    0.00    0.00    7.28   14.55    0.00    0.00    7.28
Total Portfolio:                   110.93    3.30    0.00   37.51   70.94    2.30    0.00   30.27
Approvals Pending Commitment
Credit  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   ATOIL                   5.25    1.31    0.00    0.00
1998                   SEF ARKOBANK              .80    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:            6.05    1.31    0.00    0.00



Page 46
Azerbaijan at a glance                                                                   9/29/98
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central     Low-
Azerbaljan      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                          7.6       476      2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       510      2,320       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          3.9     1,106       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                           T
Population (%)                                           0.8        0.2       2.1      GNP                              Grs
Labor force (%)                                           1.4       0.5       2.3      per    IpnmarY
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-9T                                   capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line,
Urban population f% of total population)                  56        67         28
Lite expectancy at birth (years)                          70         69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  19         25        78
Child malnutrition (% of chiklren under 5)                10         ..        61                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                     ,.        ..        71
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                         ..        ..        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population,     87         92        91             -Azerbaijan
Male                                                    ..         ..       100             -- Low-income group
Female                                                  ..          .        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                .        ..       3.4       4.1
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                     ..       ..       23.6      26.8                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 .        .       20.8      18.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                        ..       ..       2.8       8.2
Gross nationai savings/GDP                        ..       ..       3.2       7.8                         T
Current account balance/GDP                       ..       ..    -25.5      -23.7      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                             ..       ..       0.4       0.8      Savings                      Investmet
Total debt/GDP                                    .        .        2.8      12.3     Svn
Total debt service/exports                       ..        ..       1.3      21.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                  ..       9.8
Present value of debt/exports                    ..       ..       43.3
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth,
GDP                                     ..       ..       1.3       5.8        ..                    Azerbaljan
GNP per capita                         .,        ..       0.8       3.9        ..                    Low-income group
Expons of goods and services            ..       ..      6.9       29.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and lnvestnent (Y)
(% ot GOP)                                                                            100
Agrculture                                       ..        ..      22.9      21.9
Industry                                         ,.        ,.      19.2      18.4      r-
Manufacturing                                   ..       ..        ..         ..
Services                                          ..       ..      57.9      59.7      5 .                     _
.100-.
Prnvate consumption                              ..       ..       88.2      84.0              92   93   54   95   96   97
General government consumption                   ..        ..       9.0       7.8                      GDw            GOP
imports of goods and services                    ..       ..       41.6      37.5      -_-_-_-_-_-_--
1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth,
Agriculture                                      ..        ..       3.0      -8.0    so
Industry                                         ..        ..      -0.7      22.0    40
Manufacturing                                   ..       ..       -6.7         01 
Services                                          ..       ..       1.3       4.0
Private consumption                              ..                 2.5       2.7                              - | |    
General govemment consumption                     -         .       9.0      30.0   -20
Gross domestic investment                         .         .      70.7      26.9             92   93   94   95  9s   97
Imports of goods and services                    ..        ..      52.9      20.1              -Exportes         SIrports
Gross national product                           ..         .       -0.4      3.1
Note: 1997 data are preiiminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 47
Azerbaijan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic Prices                                   1976      1986        1996      1997       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                                  2 000oo
Consumer prices                                      ;:        ..       20.0       3.3      *s00
Implicit GDP deflator                                ..        ..       17.2       5.5      * ooo -.             .
Government finance                                                                           a0o
(% of-GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                      ..        ..       17.6      19.7                02    02    94    ss    93    97
Current budget balance                                .--'GDP deflator  -*CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                              ..        ..       -2.8      -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                    1976      1986       1996       1997      Export and import levels (UIS$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                  ..        ..        789       857      2,000 T
Commodity 1                                         ..       ..          .
Commodity 2                                                   ..                          1 500 s.
Manufactures
rotal imports (cifl                                 ..         ..      1,338     1,708          o000                               r
Food                                                                                       S00o
Fuel and energy                                     .         .. y
Capital goods
91   92  903   94    6   96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                                            103        98
Import price index (1995100)                         ..        ..        102        97                   aEaxports      fimports
Termns of trade (1995=100)                           ..         .        101       101    _ .
SALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                    1976      1986       1996       1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (.)
Exports of goods and services                         .        ..       938      1,154      10
Imports of goods and services                        ..        ..      1,764     1,984
Resource balance                                     ..        ..      -826       -830       0-._  .*.*.*.      .
Net income                                            .        ..        -52       -52      -10
Net current transfers                                ..        ..         67        33
Current account balance                               .                 -811      -849      .-z.
Financing items (net)                                ..        ..        835       992      .3o
Changes in net reserves                               .        ..        -24      -143           91   92   93   94    5    sa  907
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                .         ..       214       467
Conversion rate (DEC, local'US$)                     ..        ..    4,301.3   4,200.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976      1986        1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                              Composition of total debt, 1997 (UsS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 ..        ..        435       504
IERO                                              ..        ..          0          0                            G
IDA                                                ..       ..         64        116                     F        -4
Total debtservice                                              ..         10        78
IBRD                                               .         .          0          0 
IDA                                                .                     0         0           0-36
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                   ..         ..        53         60
Official creditors                                ..         ..        44         26
Private creditors                                 ..         ..         0          8
Foreign direct investment                         .,         ..       601        650
Portfolio equity                                  ..        ..          0          0                      C - 267
Wold Bank program
Commitments                                       ..         ..        20         85     A - BRO                          E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                     ..        ..         36         55     9-IDA      0 - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                              ..        ..          0          0     C - IMF                          G - Short-term
Net flows                                         ..  ..  36  55 _                                   _
Interest payments                                 ..        ..          0          0
Net transfers                                      ..        ..         35        55
Development Economics                                                                                                             9/29/98



E O R G I A                     Blke.               FEDERUTION                                                           AZERBAIJAN
ToTE is;        I                             _0X                           - .       .               SE*GtED CITWS ANP TOWNS.
T. Tb                                                                                         H Xa ,rc  -TI- 
Samur Rr,er ~~~~~~~                           ~NATIOHACC~APIAt
ROADS,
V. z
gm 8                                                                      4  )tsf Ra~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Sh fi                               ..  ..     V.-  
so         \                                                                                i          t   E  :  'SIiomkur    -\ ,-svEYRIA         ARA    RE   R Q-I  I  RP   FIA
T.                                                                smlihsy
2        Gencije  Mingeckevi  Geockycka
ARMENI
Ku  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
AV   VT AN            
Aghda.                        -Bay,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    IAAI-SA
y- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ USA 
s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~FDRTO                                                  
K ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    TRE
RE    RA   SLMC E. FIRN        N
F ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ______________ 0



