Report No. PID7141
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Education Reform
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       AZPE57959
Borrower                         Government of Azerbaijan
Implementing Agency              c/o Ministry of Education
Environment Category             C (to be confirmed)
Date This PID Prepared           November 24, 1998
Date Initial PID Prepared        November 24, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         February 15, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 20, 1999
The Proposed Loan/Credit
1.      The proposed Project is a 5 million dollar LIL (Learning and Innovation
Loan) that supports curriculum reform accompanied by teacher training and
retraining in new curriculum and new teaching methods. It will seek to ensure
that curriculum reforms reflect modern standards and needs, and also reflect
the views and capacity of teachers. This will require development of new
teacher training programs and materials, with emphasis on reform of in-service
and pre-service training to provide a more flexible range of courses.
Country and Sector Background
2.      Azerbaijan has been struggling to retain the positive achievements of the
past education system while developing sectoral reforms appropriate to the
needs of an independent state and a market economy.     It inherited a highly
developed education system from the FSU, and its impressive educational
statistics at all levels of education place it in the ranks of middle and high
income countries, and ahead of several FSU countries. However, a closer look
at the data on enrollment, quality of education, and operation of the system
shows that the system is confronted with numerous challenges, such as: the
dramatic decline of education budgetary resources as a share of GDP; the use
of scarce resources in the education system is inefficient and unsustainable;
curriculum and teacher skills are not well suited to the needs of a market
economy and a more democratic society; and a rapid deterioration of the
quality of education resulting from the decay and destruction of school
buildings; the lack of textbooks and school furniture; and the flight of
better teachers away from the profession due to low salaries.
3.      Objectives.
The two key objectives are: a) to build a national curriculum
development capacity, while piloting the development of a less rigid and
modernized curriculum for selected grades and/or subjects in general
schooling; and b) to build capacity in existing teacher pre-service and in-
service training institutions to train teachers in the new curriculum and more



active teaching methods.
Description
4.      The proposed Project has three components: a) curriculum reform, b)
teacher training, and c) project management and evaluation.
a) Curriculum: the key activities include an overall review of the compulsory
curriculum in order to identify the appropriate areas of focus for pilots and
to create a coherent strategy for reforming the structure and contents of
curricula. Upon completion of the review, a new curricula and teaching
materials for selected subjects and grades would be developed;
b) Teacher Training: this component would focus on: evaluating how curriculum
reforms were affecting teaching and learning; training of teachers in the new
curriculum; the development of new teacher training materials in selected
areas; and the implications for further development of new methods of student
assessment and monitoring of educational outcomes; and working with the MOE
and pilot teacher retraining institutes to strengthen their training capacity
and diversify provision of in-service training;
c) Project Management and Evaluation: this component would oversee general
management of the project; given the heavy piloting nature of the activities,
regular evaluation and analysis will be critical to success, in particular, in
preparing for expansion activities based on the piloting.
Financing
5.      The estimated total cost of the Project is US$5.5 million equivalent.
Implementation
6.      The Project would be implemented over a four year period by the Ministry
of Education (MOE) in close collaboration with related authorities at the
central and local levels. Overall responsibility for implementation of the
Project would rest with the MOE, while the planned project activities would be
managed and implemented by the various national and regional institutions
concerned.
Sustainability
7.      The Project focuses primarily on improvement of existing institutions
and, as such, is not expected to lead to increased recurrent budgetary
outlays, per se. However, should there be an expansion of the pilots at a
later stage, the Government will need to commit itself to additional
expenditures in a range of areas, such as textbooks.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
8.      One lesson from existing projects in Azerbaijan is that capacity building
within Government agencies is served best by trying to integrate the project
into the overall operations of the Ministry. This has its risks (possibly
slower implementation; need for more careful oversight and project
management), but the pay-off in terms of ownership and sustainability is high.
9.      Another clear lesson is that buy-in from the relevant sectoral ministry
-2 -



is not enough, without also ensuring that the Presidential Apparat and COM are
on board. This needs more work in the coming missions, but the existence of
the Presidential Decree is a useful tool in this process.
10.     Experience from education reform worldwide suggests that fundamental
curriculum reform takes time. The approach of the project is to expose key
actors and policy makers to new methods and contents of a modern curriculum,
while acknowledging the areas of relative strength in existing curricula (such
as math and science). It is not feasible to go for wholesale reform of all
levels and subjects, nor all associated areas of curriculum reform (such as
the textbook publishing industry).
Poverty Category
11.     Program of targeted interventions.
Environmental Aspects
12.     This is a Category C Project: "No appreciable environmental impact."
Program Objective Categories
13.     The project falls into the Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
and Human Resources Development (100%).
Benefits and Risks
14.     The main benefits of the project include: (a) initiating reforms in what
is taught in schools which will ultimately enhance and modernize the skills of
the Azeri population; (b) preparing groups of teachers in the new curriculum,
improving and modernizing teaching methods and teaching materials.
15.     The main risks are that the Project is too complex for a first time
borrower         in a sector.   This risk will be mitigated by narrowing components
to pilot activities; providing a long-term advisor with Bank project
experience; and intensive Resident Mission collaboration and liaison with
existing PCUs.   Another possible risk is the potential for resistance of
teachers to curriculum reforms. This risk will be mitigated by consulting and
involving teachers during preparation, including a social assessment; and
exploring twinning arrangements with foreign teacher training institute.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Halil Dundar, ECSHD
Philip O'Keefe, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-0793 (Dundar)
(202) 473-8492 (O'Keefe)
-3 -



Fax No.:         (202) 477-1996
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 11, 1998.
- 4 -



