Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22862
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29820; TF-20139; TF-22857)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
Dutch Trust Fund, Swiss Trust Fund
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10.0 MILLION
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR AN
Education Rehabilitation Project
10/23/2001
South East Europe Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = German Mark
DEM I = US$ 0.449
US$ 1 = DEM 2.226
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             -  Country Assistance Strategy
CRS             -  Catholic Relief Services
ECA             -  Europe and Central Asia
FYR             -  Former Yugoslav Republic
IDA             -  International Development Association
MOE             -  Ministry of Education
PMU             -  Project Management Unit
SDC             -  Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SDR             -  Special Drawing Rights
SSAC            -  Social Sectors Adjustment Credit
TA              -  Technical Assistance
TAB             -  Textbooks Approval Board
TF              -  Trust Fund
7-
t                     ~~~~~~~~Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn (ECA VP)
I              ~~~~~Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poorbnan (ECC06)
Sector Manager/Director:   James Socknat (ECSHD)
|____         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Peter Darvas (ECSHD)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
Education Rehabilitation Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                    9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  11
9. Partner Comments                                                                 12
10. Additional Information                                                          12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               21
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                 22
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                               23
Annex 10 Borrower's Report                                                          36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P038391                                        Project Name: Education Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Peter Darvas                                  TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR T7ype. Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: October 23, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Education Rehabilitation Project                L/C/TFNumber: IDA-29820; TF-20139;
TF-22857
Country/Department: MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC                   Region: Europe and Central
OF                                                            Asia Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/05/1997                               Effective:  10/16/1997         10/16/1997
Appraisal:  08/11/1997                                 MTR:
Approval:  09/02/1997                               Closing: 12/31/1999          03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA/MINISTRY OF
EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johanes F. Linn                            Johanes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan Poortman                        Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:      James Socknat                               Chris Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:   Peter Darvas                              James Stevens
ICR Primaty Author:   Zorica Lesic; Ana Maria Sandi;
Peter Darvas; Rajna Cemerska
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact.- M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had three objectives: (i) to improve the learning environment in high poverty and predominantly
rural areas through rehabilitating 50-56 primary schools; (ii) to improve the quality of educational inputs
by facilitating teacher training reform and textbook reform; and (iii) to strengthen the MOE's capacity to
carry out teacher training, student assessment and curriculum development.
These objectives need to be assessed based on (1) their relevance in the context of the country's political,
social, economic, institutional and educational conditions (2) consistency with the Bank's priorities (3)
borrower's commitment to the objectives and (4) ease of implementation.
a) Relevance: The Education Rehabilitation Project was the first Bank financed education project in the
newly independent FYR Macedonia. Before independence, Macedonia was one of the poorest republics of
Yugoslavia, with relatively low education attainment, dilapidated infrastructure and with an undeveloped
institutional framework to manage or to provide educational services. At the time of project preparation,
the Government's capacities to engage in a systematic reform or to manage available resources efficiently
were extremely limited. (Public sector management reform only started in 2000.)
The education sector coped with serious reduction in funding through a salary freeze at nominal 1994 levels
and by reducing its budgets for everything but salaries and utilities. Since more than 80 percent of the
public resources had been spent on salaries, discretionary non-salary spending on educational inputs, and
maintenance of facilities went largely under-funded. The school infrastructure - old to begin with - was
deteriorating rapidly and the quality of education was at serious risk of decline. Accordingly -- in the
absence of an education strategy and according to the government assessment -- the highest investment
priority was to improve primary education's learning environment by addressing the dilapidated
infrastructure of primary education, especially in high poverty and rural areas as well as in overcrowded
places (many located in ethnic Albanian dominated locations). Out of the more than 1000 schools, one
quarter had been assessed to be in need of rehabilitation. This was also in line with the assessments of
bilateral donors who later co-financed the project. In addition to the funding directed to school
rehabilitation, building up capacity to assess infrastructure need, coordinate rehabilitation works and
manage such projects efficiently and transparently was a secondary goal of this component. The Bank
responded to these conditions and need by devoting the largest portion of its available investment resources
to primary school rehabilitation, and helping to leveraging the support of other donors towards school
rehabilitation. The 4.32 Million US$ IDA funding helped mobilize 4.98 Million US$ donor funding for
civil works.
Secondly, the Bank and the donors identified three components aimed at capacity building, institutional
development and pilot activities aimed at improving the quality of educational inputs. An improved, more
transparent and efficient textbook production and dissemination system was designed and piloted to both
improve educational inputs and the institutional capacity of the central government. A teacher training
component was designed to improve educational input and establish policy, and a component was designed
to establish and to start running an educational assessment unit to improve the institutional capacity of the
Ministry. According to the original design, the lessons learned from the pilots, the emerging policies and the
institutional capacities were designated to help the central government establish a coherent reform strategy
and to host continuing support by donors.
b) Consistency: From the Bank perspective, lending for education aiming at improving learning, the focus
on high poverty areas, targeting institutional capacities and identifying specific educational inputs (teacher
- 2 -



training and textbooks) and focusing government policy on educational outcomes were all in line with the
general Bank priorities as well as policy objectives identified within the ECA education strategy. Moreover,
the project reflected the priorities as agreed upon in the Country Assistance Strategy.
c) Commitment: The Government in place at the time of the Agreement was fully committed to these
objectives and components. This commitment was indicated by the immediate setup of the necessary
institutional framework, including the Prograrn Management Unit, a Teacher Training Council, a Textbook
Approval Board and the Assessment Unit within the Pedagogical Institute.
d) Ease of Implementation: The design of the project was not overly ambitious; it was adjusted to the
assessed capacities of the Ministry, and many of the institution building objectives targeted gradual
implementation with opportunities to improve the arrangements upon proper assessment. The active donor
participation also assured that technical assistance would be assured throughout the implementation
process as the Dutch bilateral partners committed themselves to work on the capacities and agenda of the
Assessment Unit, the Swiss Government committed itself to work on teacher training policy and the Soros
Foundation (with significant international experience in the subject) implemented an international tested and
proven textbook publication and dissemination scheme.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Shortly after Project effectiveness, a new Government was elected and decided to stop, reassess and change
the objectives (in one case) and the implementation of several components. Although the general objectives
were not changed, the reassessment resulted in the fact that the Teacher Training Initiative has never been
implemented. Also, the institutional framework of the project (especially the Textbook Approval Board and
the Teacher Training Council) was frequently revisited and redesigned during two more governmental
reshuffling.
3.3 Original Components:
The project design components were:
A. School Rehabilitation ($10.6 million of which $4 million IDA)
The original design of this component was to finance rehabilitation of primary schools located exclusively
in high poverty areas in the FYR of Macedonia; no new construction was to be financed under the project.
Prior to implementation, a mapping exercise identified 56 primary schools in an internal ranking order,
which were all in high poverty areas (using school mapping criteria for poverty designation), no less than
four kilometers away from another school, they were not to have declining enrollment over the past five
years prior to assessment and must have been working at full capacity or be overcrowded. Approximately
15,000 primary school pupils were expected to benefit from the school rehabilitation component. On a
critical note, no systematic assessment of the need and feasibility was conducted. During project
preparation, the Bank and the borrower relied on existing - but inadequate - information from the
Inspectorate on the scope of works needed.
While the component was to focus on physical rehabilitation of school buildings, it did not target the
provision of equipment or instructional instruments for the rehabilitated schools.
While, the development objectives were clearly in line with government strategy and Bank priorities, the
design left many of the responsibilities in the hands of the Ministry, including program management,
selection of schools, budget estimations, damage assessments, architectural designs, supervision, and
sustainability. Regarding the latter, a "Statement of Commitment for School Maintenance" was to be
signed in the presence of Ministry representatives by a local Council of Parents at each school. While more
- 3 -



than half of the funds came from bilateral support (by Dutch and Swiss bilateral), the Dutch Government
also provided additional support to establish the Councils of Parents.
B. Textbook Pilot ($0.7 million, out of which $0.4 million IDA)
This component (co-financed with the Open Society Institute of Macedonia -OSI/Macedonia) was designed
to finance a textbook production and financing pilot aimed at, in the short term, stimulating private sector
publisher involvement in the textbook market of the FYRM and, in the medium term, improving the
pedagogic and physical quality of books and controlling their costs. The component included the production
of new textbooks for grade 4, selection of the publishers through competitive bidding, training of a newly
established Textbook Approval Board (TAB) and training of teachers using the new textbooks. The
establishment of the TAB was a condition of disbursement for this component. Resources were used to
finance the procurement of the textbooks, technical assistance to establish the TAB, and study tours or
workshops to discuss and examine textbook provision schemes.
The main objective of this component has been improving the competitiveness and transparency of the
textbook production which had been the monopoly of one ex- state-owned publishing house. The
competitive bidding and the TAB establishment were in line with the general objective of improving the
institutional capacities for the country. Meanwhile, there had been a great need and pressure on the
government to produce and distribute new textbooks for primary education . This pressure could have been
better taken into account as a risk factor, as a variety of selection and distribution practices could
compromise the impact of the project.
C. Teacher Training Initiative ($0.7million, out of which $0.2 million IDA)
This component, co-financed by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) was designed
to support a teacher training initiative aimed at helping MOE to begin introducing modem interactive
teaching techniques in both pre-service and in-service teacher training, as well as helping MOE to
reconsider the approaches and institutional arrangements currently in use for both pre-service and
in-service teacher training.
Teacher training is an essential instrument to improve the most critical input into the teaching and learning
process. Therefore, as an objective, it was an appropriate target for intervention. At the time of design, the
country had no adequate teacher training policy. Therefore, the reliance on a donor partner to develop
policy capacity appeared to be appropriate. Meanwhile, the scarce public funding and distorted expenditure
structure left almost no funding for in-service training of teachers. Therefore, the design could have
included a review of the public funding of education to see how such an activity could have been made
sustainable.
D. Learning Assessment Initiative ($0.5, out of which $0.3 million IDA)
The objective of this component, co-financed by the Government of the Netherlands was to support
creation of a capacity in MOE to develop new education standards and assess pupil learning at both
primary and secondary levels. The medium term goal was to ensure that a new Matura examination is in
place for the end of secondary education. A critical part of the component was to establish institutional
capacity to carry out assessment of learning outcomes, train professionals, physically establish an
Education Assessment and Examination Unit within the Pedagogical Institute of Macedonia (at present the
Bureau for Development of Education), train its staff and establish an autonomous, professional operation.
IDA funding was to be used to set up the Unit. Technical assistance, training and financial support to
participate in international testing activities were provided by the Dutch Assessment Agency, CITO and the
- 4 -



National Examinations Center in Ljubljana Slovenia. Financial support for these activities was provided by
the Government of Netherlands.
This component was designed to establish and improve institutional capacities to manage public education
and to establish an education policy framework that better focuses on learning outcomes rather than on
educational inputs. Further, the program was designed to establish a basis for improving primary and
secondary education, the transparency and accountability of the education system.
E. Project Management ($0.1 million)
The original objective of this component was to provide financing to cover the incremental operating costs
of a Project Management Unit (PMU), which would primarily take responsibility for civil works and
equipment procurement and works supervision, as well as accounting and disbursement of project funds.
The project Management Unit was established in a new Investment Unit of the MOE and was to manage
funding from the European Union in support of education. The design was to assure synergy between
various donor activities and the Ministry's own investment operation. Evidently, the main focus of this
arrangement was on the technical implementation of infrastructure related activities, whereas the policy
framework and the financial management of investments were to be coordinated by other parts of the
Ministry.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project objectives and components remained generally unchanged. However, in 1998, a year after
project effectiveness, a new government was elected and, consequently, several modifications were initiated
by the borrower in the project priorities, in the institutional arrangements and in the implementation.
a)     The textbook component was called into question as the Textbook Approval Board was closed, and
the Pedagogical Council was given a mandate to select textbooks instead of the TAB. As the Open Society
Institute (OSI) had been in charge of training the TAB members, the cooperation between the Ministry and
OSI suffered some setbacks. A new agreement between the two organizations was signed in 2000.
b)     The teacher training initiative was stalled as the Teacher Training Council was closed and later
re-opened with new members. Meanwhile, the cooperation between the Ministry and the Swiss donors on
the teacher training component ended as they couldn't agree on policies or on actions to pursue. IDA
funding targeted for teacher training was re-directed towards school rehabilitation.
c)     A new agreement was signed between the Ministry, the Dutch donors and the executing Catholic
Relief Services on the issue of Associations of Parents' role in implementing the maintenance agreements
for the rehabilitated schools.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A formal assessment of quality at entry by the QAG was not conducted. Overall, the quality at entry was
satisfactory. The development objectives were clearly defined and met at entry stage, especially in relation
to poverty focus and connection to improving education provisions, institutional capacity building, etc.
This rating is based on the consistency of the objectives with the overall governmental priorities of having
an immediate impact in the classrooms by improving the leaming environment in schools, particularly in
high poverty areas where schools tend to be in the worst physical condition.
The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance strategy, which was presented to the Board
on July 14,1 1998 and which called for "to improve primary education in rural areas," and "to improve the
- 5-



quality of textbooks," "develop a new approach to in-service teacher training and student performance
assessment capacity" as well as "to supplement the Government capital budget for education to focus
public resources on high poverty areas." The Education Rehabilitation Project responded directly to this
strategy since adequate primary schools are essential for long term economic growth and a successful
transition process. The assumption about needs, implementation arrangements, capacity and priorities were
realistic and in line with the situation in the country.
In terms of design, this component was heavily relying on national capacities in terms of program
management but intended to bring about policy and institutional change via donor input and technical
assistance.
The national responsibilities included:
o for school rehabilitation, the selection of schools, architectural design and sustainability (to be
discussed later);
o for the textbooks component, the establishment of the TAB, the selection of publishers, the
distribution process and follow up activities;
o for teacher training, the establishment of the TTC, establishing the framework of cooperation with the
Swiss partners;
o for the Assessment Unit, the establishment of the unit within the Pedagogical Institute, the selection of
fields and years to be assessed, the use of the assessment results in policy making.
Given, that this was the first education loan in a newly independent country with limited public
administration experience, more risk factors could have been taken into account. A year after project
effectiveness, a new government was elected and sworn in and subsequently, the minister of education was
changed four times during the project's life span.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemnent of objective:
The relatively short period was ridden by several significant external changes. After a year of
implementation, a new government was sworn in during the Fall of 1998 and the newly appointed Minister
of Education decided to revise the project plans before continuing implementation. Before the
implementation could have continued, the PMU Director and most of the staff were replaced. In Spring
1999, the Kosovo crisis slowed implementation significantly. At the end of 1999, a Government crisis
resulted in cabinet reshuffle and a new Minister of Education was sworn in. The same happened a year
later with yet again a change in the ministerial post.
The education development objectives of the project were only partially achieved. While most of the
planned activities were completed (with the exception of the teacher training initiative), they had few policy
implications and though they brought about some institutional changes, their sustainability remains
questionable. The most critical measurable outcomes have been the improvement of the learning conditions
for 8.5 thousand primary school children, newly procured and better quality textbooks at grade four, new
procurement system at the disposal of the government and stakeholders, measured outcomes of education
by the AU, and, in general, an outstanding AU, potentially as a core institution of education reform. Also
on the positive side, the partnership forged by the project between the Government and the donors brought
about a cooperation on a new government strategy, which may serve effectively as a basis for further
reform and development.
-6 -



Critical constraints to project implementation were frequent changes of government authorities. Repeated
changes of project management and staff contributed to delays in project implementation and to the lack of
understanding of Bank procedures. The involvement of three bilateral co-financiers in defining the policy
components of the three pilot activities was also a factor that increased the complexity of implementation
and limited the Bank's influence on the implementation progress of several components. Meanwhile, the
partnership between the Government and some of the donor partners has been difficult
Considering the economic, political and civil instability in the Region and Country during the project
implementation, the overall achievement of the project's objectives - to improve primary education access
and quality by rehabilitating primary schools through FYRM and by improving educational inputs- was
satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.    School Rehabilitation (satisfactory)
The school rehabilitation works were implemented in two phases under four different administrations. Each
government change resulted in delays in selection and bidding procedures, payments and implementation.
After the first phase resulted in larger than expected unit costs (given the delays, inadequate architectural
designs and damage assessments resulting in necessary supplementary works at all construction sites), a
new PMU proceeded with the rehabilitation of only 11 new schools. When the expectecl costs of the second
phase proved to be overestimated, the rehabilitation of another four new schools was initiated. In all, 34
primary schools were rehabilitated by the Dutch TF, Swiss TF and IDA Credit, 35 % less than had
originally been planned. 8.500 children benefited from the repairs and provision of furniture. Conditions
for learning were significantly improved in all project-supported schools.
Phase of     Number    Number of    Surface m2             Total          Per pupil     Per m2
Rehabilitati     of          Pupils                    Rehabilitation cost    cost US$   cost US$
on         Schools                                       US$
Phase I        19          6,777        22,000           7,155,300          1,055        325
Phase II        15          1,750        10,200          2,898,000          1,656         284
Total         34           8,527        32,200         10,053,300          1,179         312
The unit cost for reconstruction was about US$ 312 per square meter or US$ 1.179 per pupil on average.
The unit cost was significantly higher than estimated.
The main reasons for the decrease in the number of the schools were: (1) the inadequate assessment of the
damage in the schools, (2) the inadequate architectural designs, (3) relatively underdeveloped construction
industry, (4) increased focus on rural schools with smaller size and higher degree of damage in poverty
areas (as opposed to larger size urban schools with limited damage).
These reasons originated prior to implementation, but pre-implementation assessment of the consistency
between the infrastructure conditions and the designs was not carried out. In the medium run, a sustained
management information system should better inforn investment units about the conditions of school
infrastructure. In addition, the project design did not allow for new constructions instead of school
rehabilitation, even though in some cases, new construction could have been more cost-effective. Given the
relatively speedy project preparation, one may conclude that the identification of 50 to 56 schools was
overestimated and the conflict between size of schools and damage was not adequately attended.
Notwithstanding these problems, this review needs to conclude that the component achieved the original
objective, even if with a smaller number of schools. It should be rated satisfactory.
- 7 -



B. Textbook Pilot is rated satisfactory (marginally).
A Textbook Approval Board (TAB) was established and members received training on textbooks
procurement using clear bidding documents and procedures. Evaluation criteria were developed and used
for evaluating grade 2 and 4 Mathematics and Languages textbooks.
Despite the transparent and competitive system, the intended break-up of the monopoly of the
ex-stateowned publisher was only partially successful as only one other publishing house was able to win
concession for publishing textbooks. The outcome showed that additional steps are needed to assure that
the playing field is leveled and that more publishing companies are able to access the textbook market.
After selection, the textbooks for grade 4 were produced and distributed. Following the Government
change, the Minister decided to abolish the TAB and decided to assign the TAB's function to the
Pedagogical Council. After several changes in the institutional arrangements, at present the Pedagogical
Service is in charge of textbook evaluation.
On the positive side, a transparent procurement system was introduced in FYR Macedonia, with TAB
members, publishers and teachers all being trained on selection procedures, organization of publishing,
focus on quality and marketing as well as use of textbooks. Textbooks of Mathematics and four Languages
(Macedonian, Albanian, Turkish and Serbian) have been provided for students in the fourth grade of
primary education, 41.920 textbooks plus 3.030 other learning materials in mother tongue and 40.687
textbooks and 2.300 other learning materials were acquired by NCB. The competitive system gained
credibility among the stakeholders and goverunent officials alike.
On the critical side, the institutional framework has proved to be too volatile. The cooperation between the
Government and OSI as the donor partner has not been efficient and left both sides mutually disappointed.
Textbook distribution has remained subject to political considerations, as neither sustainable textbook
provision schemes with cost recovery mechanisms nor alternative choices were tested.
C. Teacher Training Initiative is rated unsatisfactory.
The outputs under the component were not achieved. At the start of the project implementation, a Teacher
Training Council was formally created, but didn't succeed to reach agreement with a new Government and
its Ministry of Education on a broad strategy for pre and in-service teacher training. Since the Swiss
co-financier considered the existence of such a strategy as a precondition for releasing funds, no activities
were financed, except for an initial workshop. The Teacher Resource Center in Bitola was not created.
Both the Ministry of Education and the Swiss donor agreed early on during project implementation that this
activity should be dropped from the project. A Bank proposal for using its limited funds allocated to the
component for financing small demonstration or pilot projects to support innovations in in-service teacher
training was not followed up by the Ministry. Eventually, the Ministry requested the re-allocation of the
funds available for this component to other activities.
D. Assessment Initiative is rated highly satisfactory.
An Education Assessment and Examination Unit was established within the Pedagogical Institute of
Macedonia (at present the Bureau for Development of Education) and has been constantly increasing its
capacity as well as extent of the autonomy of their operations. The unit was equipped and a vehicle and
furniture were procured. Its staff was trained on assessment and examination issues.
- 8 -



Activities for a national assessment of grade 4 students were initiated. Field trial testing was carried out.
Standards of achievement were developed for national languages and mathematics. Execution of the main
assessment is in progress. A standardized examination (revised Matura) started being prepared.
Examination syllabi and test items were developed. A field trial was carried on in six schools. Descriptive
assessments of students' achievement has been initiated. A conceptual framework was developed and was
subjected to field trial and evaluation. The foreseen baseline student performance evaluation was not
conducted. The Unit participated in Third International Measurement of Mathematics and Science
Performance -Repeat (TIMMS-R) program with broad recognition by the international administrators for
its professional conduct and plans to participate in several other international assessments. Through the
technical assistance the unit received, it established broad partnerships with similar organizations around
the world.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional developmnent impact:
Since this was the first education project financed by international donors implemented by MOE in
Macedonia, the implementing agencies and the beneficiary organizations went through a significant
learning process. Even though there has been significant volatility, there is a consensus that the Ministry
and the Government need to establish better quality standards as well as synergy in project management,
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluations. The MOE is fully prepared to increase
its capabilities in these fields. In infrastructure related operations, a synergy is needed in regular
inspectorate works, capital maintenance activities, financial planning and investment.
Regarding the gcal of improving educational inputs, the Government is aware of the benefits of
transparently run and professional as well as semi-autonomous intermnediary organizations similar to the
TAB, TTC and Assessment Unit. The Government and the Ministry are fully committed to improve central
governance and management of education along this direction.
One of the main institutional impacts of the project is the establishment -- in a relatively short period of
time -- of a functional Assessment Unit that is already performing national assessments and is preparing
examinations. The Unit is also in charge of coordinating Macedonia's participation in international
assessments such as TIMSS, PISA and PIRLS. This institution can potentially play a critical role in a new
educational policy framework, which relies on learning outcomes rather than educational inputs in its
regulatory and policy making activities.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Project was implemented amidst political volatility, economic hardship, government changes, a war in
the neighboring country resulting the influx of refugees and inter-ethnic violence in the country.
During the life of the project, there was one new election resulting in a total political turnover and two
smaller government crisis, bringing about new Ministers of Education. The Kosovo conflict resulted in
hundreds of thousands of refugees; some of them were located in schools rehabilitated during the project.
Meanwhile, the govemment had to go through a short-term fiscal adjustment and had to initiate a task to
-9-



downsize the wages in the public sector as a result of agreements with IMF. In the absence of adequate
planning and strategic capabilities, these actions had to focus the Ministry's attention on short-term
challenges. Finally, towards the end of the project, ethnic tensions turned violent, effectively causing the
immediate stoppage of investment or policy reform related activities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governmnent control:
The implementation of the project was affected negatively by the initial lack of sector policies. During
project implementation, the MOE has prepared an Education Development Strategy (2001-2010), even
thought this strategy was changed following a govermment reshuffling. Another critical factor affecting
implementation was repeated changes in key staff, including three changes at the position of the Minister of
Education, changes in program management and financial management personnel. Finally, the relationships
between the donor partners, the main stakeholders and the government were less then harmonious.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The frequent changes in the PMU staff caused serious capacity problems and delays. In addition, the PMU
and financial management worked separately without efficient coordination or unilateral leadership.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The unit cost for school reconstruction was about US$ 312 per square meter or US$ 1,179 per pupil on
average. The unit cost was significantly higher than had been originally estimated.
The main reasons of the underestimation were (1) the inadequate assessment of the damage in the schools,
(2) the inadequate architectural designs, (3) relatively underdeveloped construction industry, (4) increased
focus on rural schools with smaller size and higher degree of damage in poverty areas (as opposed to larger
size urban schools with limited damage).
Meanwhile, IDA funding of three project components (school rehabilitation, textbooks and assessments)
were effective as a relatively smaller share of IDA funds helped trigger donor input.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated "likely".
The key question of sustainability for the investments supported under the project was whether the
responsible authorities would have the resources necessary to effectively operate the project schools. In
particular, whether or not they would have the budgets necessary to pay for utilities, replenishment of
educational materials, school maintenance and capital repair. In this regard, there have been positive signs,
including the activization of the Parents Associations in maintaining the rehabilitated schools. However,
sustainability will also depend on the willingness of the governmental organization to establish a funding
formula and feasible division of work between schools, local and central authorities assuring that standards
are set for school infrastructure, consolidation and reallocation of resources are pursued if and when is
necessary to use infrastructure more efficiently, information management, monitoring and inspection are
coordinated with investment planning, and the central authorities are capable to plan ahead and measure the
impact of capital investments in terms of demand, student flows, labor need, quality and performance in
learning and teaching.
In terms of textbook production and distribution, sustainability depends on whether the central authorities
are willing and capable of sustaining a transparently and professionally run Textbook Approval Board or
similar organization with appropriate monitoring and evaluation system in place. Secondly, sustainability
- 10-



depends on whether the central authorities are able to maintain or even improve the competitiveness of
textbook production by sustaining the procurement system and assisting publishers in improving their
ability to compete equally in a market environment. The project answered to some of the questions
positively, including the government's committment in pursuing a competitive textbook production system.
The sustainability of the Assessment Unit is supported by its professionalism, credibility and performance.
The Ministry of Education and Science is committed and capable of using information provided by the AU
in its policies including planning and allocation of resources, dissemination of information and institutional
strategy. Assessment activities are costly and may only be sustainable if sufficient funds are assured
regularly and if information provided is channeled into regular education policy.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The results of the school rehabilitation-civil works component requires regular maintenance. This is
formally assured by the commitment of the Association of Parents; however, regular public funding is also
necessary. The use of the newly rehabilitated schools also depends on the provision of equipment and
instructional materials. These were provided via the project only to some extent after a request from the
Minister to allocate funds for this purpose was approved and some fumiture was procured.
The Ministry needs to review its textbook policy and institutional arrangements to assure competitiveness
and transparency. In addition, some cost-recovery schemes are needed because at the moment, access to
quality textbooks is either unequal or unsustainable.
The support of the Assessment Unit and the Neatherlands Ministry of Development has continued after the
closing of the Bank project. The AU's activity plan includes several tests and assessments to be conducted
in the coming years. These require regular public funding.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. The
Bank identified an operation that was consistent with Government development priorities and consistent
with Bank's CAS for the country. The Bank responded quickly to the Borrower's request to improve the
learning environment in high poverty and predominately rural areas, by devoting the largest portion of its
available investment recourses to primary school reconstruction.This project was not preceded by sector
analysis nor by a Government strategy. Even though many of the policy issues related to the smaller (pilot)
components were not fully defined at entry, the active participation of donors during implementation
promised success.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision perfornance is rated as satisfactory, though uneven. Midway into implementation,
the Bank team changed; effectively neither the Bank team nor the Government team in place were involved
in the project preparation. During the transition, the project had no supervision between Summer 1998 and
February 1999. By the time the new Bank team could start supervision, there were significant delays in
implementation, contracting or paying civil works providers or textbook publishers. The new Minister had
the intention of renegotiating or closing some components. Following that, there were frequent Bank
missions helping to deal in a more effective and timely manner with changes in implementation, PMU,
delays, inadequate financial planning and objective obstacles like the Kosovo crisis.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
- 11 -



Overall, the Bank's performance can be rated as satisfactory. The project's rehabilitation objectives were
met. The project served as a vehicle for the Bank team to leverage additional donor financing for the
school rehabilitation and education strategy development. A new Government strategy was pursued with
Bank assistance during project implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower showed early interest in the possibility of a World Bank project that would address the
weaknesses in the leaming environment in high poverty and predominately rural areas. It showed strong
commitmnent to the operation and, in order to begin to manage public school facilities more efficiently, the
MOE began preparation of a school mapping data base in early 1997 with support from the SSAC Japan
Grant. Its contribution is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
For the most part, Government performance during implementation was satisfactory despite political
uncertainties, changes among Government officials, and the highly unstable period of the Kosovo crisis.
However, there were areas where progress was delayed due to political/ministerial changes and
disagreement among the various implementing partners and within the MOE.
The first Joint Performance Portfolio Review, held in March 2000 by the Government and the Bank
Country Unit, assessed the reasons for the delayed progress in the implementation of the ERP which can be
summarized as follows:
Project implementation suffered from almost complete change in staff responsible for managing and
implementing the project after the 1998 elections. As a result the progress in project implementation was
limited for a period of time and the disbursements from the IDA credit were below expected levels. In
addition, many of the people who benefited from training under the project (e.g. members of the TAB,
members of the Teacher Training Council, etc.) were replaced and their successors remained without
training to properly carry out project related activities. Eventually, the project implementation had to be
extended by 15 months, from December 1999 to March 2001.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Because of the institutional arrangements made, the status of the Project Management Unit was not clearly
defimed, somewhere between a regular department of the MOE and an independent institution. The PMU
did not take a full management and coordination role for the overall Project and acted only as a Civil
Engineering group of the MOE. Project implementation suffered and was significantly delayed due to
frequent governmental and PMU staff changes, as well as inadequate communication between the PMU
and various components; between various units of project implementation including between the PMU and
the MOE's Finance Department, between the PMU and the supervisors and contractors, between the PMU
and the Assessment Unit and CRS.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance has to be rated satisfactory as, despite the volatile political situation,
frequent Government reshuffles and subsequent changes in personnel, most components were executed.
The MOE's performance in supervising the project implementation and providing policy advice was
adequate, despite frequent changes and limits in administrative or policy making capacity. The PMU
suffered from shortage of staff and difficulties of communication but mobilized its resources and carried
out an extremely intensive work schedule during the last year of the project implementation to finish all
works.
- 12-



8. Lessons Learned
Co-financiers. The involvement of co-financiers has many benefits, since more funds become available,
especially technical assistance and training activities. However, working with several co-financiers
introduces more complexity in implementation that can hamper the implementation of the project beyond
the Bank's control. The lesson learned is that agreements between the government and individual
co-financiers should be signed by the time the project becomes effective.
Institutional Arrangements for Implementation. MOE in Macedonia proved to have a weak
implementation capacity. MOE lacked staff qualified in Project management, procurement, financial
management and monitoring and evaluation. This situation resulted in delays, as well as unnecessary
energy and time spent in communication and reviewing. In the future, extra efforts are needed to build
capacity in these areas. In addition, project coordination requirements for particular fields should be clearly
identified and competent staff should be assigned to assume responsibilities. The situation, in which staff
with competences in school investment were also in charge of coordinating components related to quality
reform in education, needs to be avoided.
Unstable political situation. During project implementation, Macedonia was confronted with many
changes of the management of MOE. These changes resulted also in changes of the persons involved in
various components of the project that proved to be highly disruptive to implementation. In the future, extra
care should be paid to recruitment and appointment of staff working in the project, based only on
performance.
Focused technical assistance (TA). The success of the assessment pilot component proved the value of
high quality TA that is focused on outcomes. The lesson learned is that co-financiers should pay particular
attention to TA assignments and include the Bank and the client in the selection process.
Build on existing capacity. The failure of the Teacher Training pilot component to meet the objectives was
due to a large extent to the attempt at creating completely new structures, that would function in parallel
with the existing ones. The lesson learned is that, even in the case in which radical changes are foreseen,
capacity building should start within existing structures. If this is not done, existing structures will oppose
changes, while the newer ones will never succeed to enforce them.
Education strategy. The pilot components of the project proved that the quality reform is highly complex
and it needs well coordinated policies. The lesson learned is that MOE should first develop a
comprehensive education strategy, before a new project is launched.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 13-



10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
NW .                     - ' ' L. ':tt;,t                                                               ,
1. 50-56 dilapidated and dangerous primary - improved leaming environment and better  34 primary schools rehabilitated and
schools rehabilitated and fumished in high   safety in about 30 primary schools.  furnished
poverty areas
Cost-recovery scheme not implemented
2. New system for production and financing - new textbooks for math and languages
of textbooks piloted                  (grade 4 primary), more responsive to new
curricula and teaching techniques, are
introduced.
- new mechanism for involving private sector
in textbook production is successfully piloted.
3. Standardized student assessment    performance information begins to be fed    same
functioning                           back into curriculum and materials
development, as well as teacher training
programs
- MOE producing sample-based performance
data as well as initial standardized testing
results.
4. In-service teacher training pilot strategy   - not implemented given the fact that no  same
piloted                               agreement has been reached between the
MOE and the Swiss donors.
5. School map developed and functoning    - school map developed but has not been    same
sustained
output Indicators:
.~~~~~77.
End of project
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Com ponent (in US$ million equivalent)
1. School Rehabilitation                             10.60           10.70
2. Textbook Pilot                                     0.70            0.25
3. Teacher Training Initiatives                       0.70            0.00
4. Standards and Assessment Initiative                0.50            0.27
5. Project Implementation                             0.10            0.07
Total Baseline Cost                                  12.60           11.29
Total Project Costs              12.60          11.29
Total Financing Required              12.60           11.29
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          .01.40                    10.40
(0.00)        (4.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.40         0.30          0.00         0.70
(0.00)        (0.40)       (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          1.40         0.00         1.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.20)        (0.00)       (0.20)
4. Recurrent Costs            0.00          0.00         0.10          0.00         0.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0. 1 0)      (0.00)       (0. 0 0)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)    _(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.00          9.40          1. 80         1.40        12.60
(0.00)        (4 .40)      (0 .60)       (0.00)       (5.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          9.10         0.00          1.40        10.50
(0.00)       (4.20)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (4.20)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.48         0.04         0.00         0.52
(0.00)       (0.48)        (0.04)       (0.00)       (0.52)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.20         0.00         0.20
- 16-



(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.12)         (0.00)         (0.12)
4. Recurrent Costs                0.00            0.00           0.07            0.00           0.07
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.07)         (0.00)         (0.07)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            9.58           0.31            1.40          11.29
(0.00)         (4.68)          (0.23)         (0.00)         (4.91)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component in US$ million equivalent)
1. School Rehabilitation  4.00       0.60       5.80       4.32       1.40       4.98    108.0  233.3   8.
2. Textbook Pilot          0.40                 0.30       0.25                           62.50.
3. Teacher Training        0.20                 0.50       0.00                           0.0             0.0
Initiatives
4. Standards and           0.30                 0.40       0.27                           90.0            0.0
Assessment Initiative
5. Project Implementation  0.10                            0.07                           70.0
- 17-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/ 1996                     4   1 TaskManager, I Project             S
Officer, 1 Education Specialist,
I Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/06/1997                   4   1 Task Manager, I Project            S
07/24/1997                        Officer, I Education
Specialist, I Procurement
Officer
Supervision
11/10-14, 1997               3   1 Task Manager, I Project            S             S
Officer, I Consultant
01/19-23, 1998                2   1 Task Manager, 1 Project           S              S
Officer,
05/26-29, 1998                2   1 Task Manager, I Project           S             HS
Officer,
07/19-24, 1998                4   1 Task Manager, I Project           S             HS
Officer, I Education Specialist,
1 Operations Officer
02/8-19, 1999                 5   1 Task Manager, I Project           S              S
Officer, I Education Specialist,
2 Operations Officer
07/21-29, 1999                2   2 Operations Officer                S              S
09/30-10/05, 1999             5   1 VP Office, I Task Manager,        S              S
I Project Officer, 2 Operations
Officer
06/6-16, 2000                 3   1 Task Manager, 1 Project           S              S
Officer, I Operations Officer
08/20-24, 2000                2   1 Task Manager, 1 Project           U              S
Officer,
10/2-11, 2000                3   1 Task Manager, I Project            U              S
Officer, I Operations Officer
01/9-16, 2001                 3   1 Task Manager, 1 Project           S              S
Officer, I Operations Officer
ICR
05/01-18, 2001               5    1 Task Manager, 1 Project           S              S
Officer, 1 Education
Specialist, 1 Senior
Operations Officer, I
Operations analyst
(b) Staff
- 19-



Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate               I
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                15.8                         41.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                      6.2                         12.2
Supervision                             108.97                       119.60
ICR                                        6.1                         2.24
Total                                   137.07                       175.94
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LIi Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Li Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
LI Financial                               O H  OSUOM   O N  O NA
L Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
LI Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Li Gender                           OH  OSU*M  ON  O NA
Li Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
Li Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHS Os   Ou  OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
E Preparation                                        OHS *S  OU  O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS OS  O U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  * U  O HU
] Overall                                            OHS OS  OU   O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Education Rehabilitation Project; Staff Appraisal Report; No.
16686-MK; August 6, 1997
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Education Rehabilitation Project; Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President; Report no. P-7145-MK; August 6, 1997
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Education Rehabilitation Project; Development Credit
Agreement (Cr. No. 2982 MK); October 6, 1997
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Education Rehabilitation Project; Dutch TF No. 20139-MK
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: Education Rehabilitation Project; Swiss TF No. 22857-MK
Supervision Documents:
World Bank Project Status Report, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires: November 1997, January 1998,
May 1998, July 1998, February 1999, June 1999,'October 1999, June 2000, August 2000, October 2000,
January 2001, May 2001.
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1998 was done by Price Waterhouse
Coopers.
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1999 was done by Price Waterhouse
Coopers.
- 23 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
NA
- 24 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
DRAFT REPORT
ON THE STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP ON THE EVALUATION OF THE IMPACT
OF THE EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Skopje, July 13, 2001)
The stakeholder workshop on the evaluation of the impact of the Education Rehabilitation Project was held
on July 13, 2001. This event has been designed for a purpose of providing feedback on the achievements of
the Education Rehabilitation Project from various local parties identified as key stakeholders of the project
which was recently closed . The stakeholder workshop has also been aimed to be used as a technique for a
participatory analysis of the activities undertaken within the ERP from the aspect of reaching some
strategic recommendations for the future Bank financed interventions in the education sector.
This national-level workshop was attended by a large number of representatives from the Ministry of
Education, its offices at local government level, Bureau of Education and its system of local offices, school
administrators, teachers and their associations, academic community, civil society including parents and
their associations, publishers, foreign donors participating in the financing of the ERP, etc. The full list of
participants is attached to this Draft Report.
The discussions held and results reached are outlined bellow in this Draft Report, available in both English
and Macedonian language. The Draft Report reviews the achievements of the project development
objectives as they were discussed and summarized in the separate breakout groups formed around each of
the four major ERP components.
The workshop was opened by Minister of Education and Science, Prof. Nenad Novkovski. He welcomed
the participants in the workshop thanking them for their considerable presence. He pointed out that he was
very pleased to accept WB Education Team's offer to work together on the preparation of an innovative &
leaming ICR - Implementation Completion Report as a participatory interactive exercise which implied
substantial input of all parties involved in the project implementation. He mentioned that he would be
particularly interested in obtaining, evaluating and using the experiences gained and lessons leamed from
the project implementation and in understanding the ways in which these lessons are viewed by particular
participants in the project. Special importance should be attached, according to the Minister, to the
establishment of linkages among various partners in this cooperative enterprise which should be encouraged
and fostered in future investment interventions. These partners are notably the MOE, the teachers, the
students, the parents and their associations, the school directors, local communities, construction
companies, publishers, academic community, the WB, the donor community, and the larger NGO sector.
The practice of the project implementation indicate that due to diversified participation and complexity of
the relationships established, some of the components were more or less successful in meeting the original
development objectives of the project. The same conclusions could be made in the case of overlapping of
different procedures. All these what was stated above could be considered as even stronger argument in
favor of holding of stakeholder workshop as an excellent opportunity for exchange of experiences and
opinions gained in the course of the project implementation which would allow for abridging the gaps and
for obtaining much more effective outcomes of the educational reform planned to be financed by the next
round of lending.
The Resident Representative of the World Bank in Macedonia, Ms. Marie-Helene Bricknell, presented the
workshop participants with the main rationale of the World Bank recent practices of implementing
- 25 -



innovative and learning ICRs (Implementation Completion Report). She specifically pointed out the
relevance of this event in the light of the proposed follow up interventions in the Education sector and the
continued interest of the World Bank, as well as other international donors (particularly, the Dutch and the
Swiss governments ) in supporting the education sector reform agenda in Macedonia. The stakeholder
workshops prove to be very powerful techniques for reinforcing the feedback process from the past
activities and for discussing the lessons leamed . They at the same time generate the sense of ownership
among different stakeholders involved and enable stakeholders to collaborate effectively. This kind of
forum encourages the participation process based on individual stakeholders' shared understanding of each
other's interests and concerns. Finally, the specific focus on the lessons learned proves to be of utmost
importance since it offers grounds for improvement of the design of future operations, greater development
impact and sustainability of the projects, reinforces self-evaluation by both sides, the Bank and the
Government implementing agency and provides valuable experience from the institutional learning
prospective.
The plenary session of the workshop was concluded by a comprehensive presentation of the ERP by the
head of the Project Management Unit and the Undersecretary at the MOE, Mr. Georgi Ilievski . The
presentation was aimed at providing the workshop participants with a full information about the project
structure in terms of the definition and implementation of different project components, the project
objectives and the practical operation and implementation of the entire project.
The principal part of the participatory assessment of the project achievements in the course of the
workshop occurred in the breakout groups. The participants in the breakout groups were carefully
selected on the basis of the priority interests of the representatives of the key stakeholder groups. The
discussions were structured in advance based on the agreed purpose and agenda consisted of talking points
circulated within the individual breakout groups. Each breakout group was headed by the facilitator hired
for this specific purpose.
BREAKOUT GROUP I: CIVIL WORKS
The development objective targeted by the Civil Works Project Component including the active
participation of the local parent associations, was improvement of the learning environment in poor rural
primary schools and more efficient use of the physical infrastructure. The breakout group established to
discuss this Project Component gathered rather heterogeneous stakeholders with different interests. Such
composition enabled a dynamic discussion sometimes leading towards dissenting opinions which at the end
would result into shared positions.
As per the physical state of infrastructure, there was full agreement that the long disinvestment period in
the country led towards enormous deterioration of the school infrastructure and existence of very old or
even nonexisting school equipment, which significantly lowered the standards in a number of primary
schools in Macedonia. This is why this kind of rehabilitation projects are most welcome to help the
authorities to counter these problems. Suggestion was made that the school rehabilitation projects need to
take into account the similar accumulated problems of the schools in the urban areas and, for that reason, it
is recommended that such projects need to be expanded.
The Ministry of Education and Science needs to reinforce its active role in the investment policies and
planning critical for the developing and maintenance of school infrastructure. To this end, the Ministry is
expected to continue to work on the school mapping exercise which will serve as basis for decision making
purposes. Suggestion was made that the Ministry comes up as soon as possible with an updated list of
priority schools which will be taken as an indicative list for any further rehabilitation efforts.
- 26 -



As an issue critical for the improvement of the investment procedures and contracts, the group stressed the
need for substantial improvement of the initial design projects which will help the contractors to avoid
uncertainties in the rehabilitation effort and unnecessary cost overruns.
Another issue which caused lively discussion and dissenting opinions was about the way in which the
selection of the civil works contractors on local level should be carried out. The representatives of the
extension offices of the MOE argued that the local construction firms should be given preferential treatment
in the bidding procedures. The representatives of the construction firms, however, opposed such positions
raising the main competition and transparency reasons. The two confronted positions succeeded to be
overcome, by reaching an agreement that the Bank guidelines governing the competitive selection of civil
works contractors proves to be the most effective and most transparent way of the procurement of the civil
works and that it needs to be implemented and complied with regardless of who are the investors and where
they come from.
As per the assessment of the financial management of the ERP, particularly from the aspect of the timely
disbursements, a general impression is that there is space for improvements, on both sides - the Bank and
the Ministry, in terms of quicker and more efficient payments. Also an idea of obtaining a financial
management software identical to the one which is in use by the actual foreign donors was mentioned as a
potential way of increasing the financial management efficiency.
As per the assessment of the implementation capacities, an agreement was reached about the need of
establishing highly qualified and efficient project management units. These units should permanently build
their implementation capacity but also should be left out of each and every personnel changes which may
occur frequently and hamper the efficiency of the project implementation.
As per the involvement of the local communities and parental councils, it was concluded that there should
be improvements since their insufficient inclusion in the investment decision making caused, from time to
time, misunderstandings. Yet, parents' participation in the school rehabilitation has been a natural and
indispensable process which took place even without too much fostering, although in the second part of the
project it became a regular part of the local consultation process. A conclusion has been made that the
enhancement of the capacities for local and parental support and their involvement in the investment
decisions is highly recommended.
Summary of final conclusions:
*     The ERP has met its initial development objectives. Therefore, 34 rural primary schools are
reconstructed, in compliance with the regulations and standards set as conditions for a normal functioning
of the education process. All this together, enables better learning environment and access of the students
to the school.
*     The selection of priority school and the procurement process for the selection of the civil works
contractors have been carried out in a publicly transparent way and in compliance with the existing laws
and regulations and WB guidelines.
*     The reconstructed schools meet the standards set for this kind of infrastructure project, safety
requirements, construction stability of the facilities, light requirements, sanitary requirements, maintenance,
high quality building materials, etc.
- 27 -



*      The quality and transparency standards required by the WB in relation to the construction
contractor firms are fully acceptable and ensure the successful implementation of this and any future
projects.
Suzeestions for future:
*      Timely establishment of highly professional project management units, equipped with sufficient
number of staff, trained to follow the standards and norms required by the foreign donors and acquisition of
software for financial management compatible with the donor's once which would enable better financial
efficiency in the project implementation. A comprehensive analysis of the situation on the ground relevant
for the construction process including timely preparation of the priority lists of school to be reconstructed,
feasibility and design studies, and high quality preparation of the entire project documentation package.
*     Accurate planning of project implementation from the aspect of the building season to ensure high
quality standards.
*      Increased efficiency in payments to the contractors, as regulated by existing laws and regulations,
direct payments through commercial banks and parallel follow up by the disbursement of the government
contributions, all of this being part of the confidence building process with the construction companies in
the country.
*     Full involvement of parent councils from the very initial stage of the consultation process with the
investors and the local community as final beneficiary of the reconstruction project which will enable a
stronger feeling of ownership and commitment for the reconstructed school maintenance.
*     Possible broadening of the foreign donors' construction standards in terms of inclusion of school
yards and access paths into the eligible scope of works which could be financed by the foreign donors'
finding.
*     Inclusion of urban primary schools into the priority lists given that reduction of urban poverty is a
significant part of the overall poverty reduction efforts in the country.
BREAKOUT GROUP II: TEXTBOOK PILOT
- 28 -



The development objective targeted by the Textbook Pilot component of the project, together with other two
non-civil works components, was the improvement of the quality of educational inputs. This specific
component was aimed at introduction and development of market environment for textbook production
which would result in the new generation of textbooks with upgraded physical and pedagogical quality at
reduced costs of production. The group has been composed of present and former participants in the
implementation of the component such as representatives of the Ministry, Pedagogical Service at the MOE
as a transformed former Pedagogical Council (in charge of approving the curricula and the textbook based
on such curricula), Bureau of Education, members of former independent Textbook Approval Board,
teachers who were trained in the new procedures, school directors, publishers including publisher in
textbooks in minority language, etc. The co-financing donor, the Foundation Open Society Institute, who
was also implementing the component together with the MOE, was represented as well.
The approach taken in the discussions included review of component activities which were completed and
which were not completed, assessment of their impact, review of the level of completion of the
recommendations adopted at last years conference on the interim evaluation of the Textbook pilot, and
finally suggestions for future undertakings in the area of textbook policies.
The group agreed that the pilot has been well structured and one of the most relevant achievements in the
first stage of the project was establishment of the independent TAB and the subject specialist panels,
training of their members in the evaluation of textbook submissions, training the authors and publishers
(with special emphasis on private publishers) in the competitive selection procedures and final procurement
of the actually produced textbooks, on competitive basis, in two subjects and in four languages of
instruction for the grade IV. In this way, the responsibility for the quality of the textbooks was to be shared
between the evaluation panels and the publishers.
The group noted the failures of the component such as the lack of continuity of the training in the selection
procedures, the failure to have certain amount of promotional print-runs published and given to schools and
teachers in order to make them choose among more than one sample of textbook. Furthermore, the
Textbook rental scheme and a Revolving fund have not been established despite very serious considerations
given by the Ministry to this form of reduction of costs of textbooks. Finally, evaluation of the textbooks
published in such competitive selection procedure has not been made.
In terms of the procedures implemented, the group analyzed the positive achievements while, at the same
time, reminded of existing weaknesses or uncompleted agenda which remains for future. Along these line,
the group acknowledged the well planned and worked out competition process, high quality training
provided to various participants in the process, evaluation of textbook submissions in accordance with the
established standards and guidelines, creation of competitive environment which increases the quality of the
textbooks, etc. As underlying weaknesses the following was noted: Insufficient coordination among various
key actors in the process of introduction and implementation of the pilot, notably the MOE, the OSI and the
Bank and the weak management capacity of the Ministry for the textbook production; insufficient
relevance attached to the price as a factor in the textbook selection procedure. Uncompleted agenda of this
component including the lack of the feed back information about the relevant experience questions the
sustainability of the pilot at national - system level.
Summary of the final conclusions:
The group discussed extensively the progress reached in the implementation of the recommendations of the
last year conference on the evaluation of the Textbook pilot. The discussion ended with reiteration of a
number of recommendations key to the increased capacity of the MOE for managing the competitive
- 29 -



process of production of textbooks, stimulating the private publishers to be involved in the process of
textbook production and upgrading the physical and pedagogical quality of textbooks. The following was
concluded:
*   The main objectives have been successfully tested, however, their finalization was not achieved, namely
the independent TAB together with the Subject specialist panels have not survived the lifetime of the
project.
*   The Minister of Education is expected to establish a working committee with a mandate to work out the
methodology for the bidding procedure for selection of textbooks based on the experience, bidding
documents, two staged procedure, timetable, rights and obligations, in brief - based on the lessons
learned in the Textbook Pilot component of the ERP and other related intemational experiences.
*   The Minister of Education is expected to establish a working body to prepare detailed criteria for
evaluation of the textbook submissions composed of practitioners from fields such as methodology,
psychology and pedagogy.
*   The Ministry should prepare criteria for selection of peer reviewers and members of other evaluation
committees. The relevant documentation should be made available to the public, while procedure itself
should be transparent.
Su.eestions for future
*   The key factor for improved implementation is establishment of a specialized, highly professional,
responsible unit at the MOE whose sole responsibility would be to handle the process and the policies
of the textbook production.
*  The Ministry develops its own strategy for implementation of policy recommendations for further
advancement of the high quality textbook and leaming materials provision and overcoming of the
obstacles against the competitive implementation of the agreed policy steps.
*   The human resource capacities trained in the competitive bidding procedures for textbook production
availed and used, including institutional arrangements and expertise, by the MOE for future incoming
projects and investments.
*   Timely finalization of new reformed curricula and syllabus documentation as a sound starting
point for the high quality preparation of the bidding procedures for selection of textbooks and
other learning materials.
*   Evaluation of the textbooks according to specific methodology used by specialized professional
institutions such as Bureau of Education, Pedagogical faculties, etc.
*   The MOE expected to take a position as per the acceptance/non - acceptance of the above
recommended steps for potential future involvements in the area of textbook and other leaming material
production.
BREAKOUT GROUP III: ASSESSMENTS AND EVALUATIONS
- 30 -



The development objective targeted by the leaming assessment component of the project, in the context of
the improvement of the quality of educational inputs (as larger ERP development objective), was
specifically aimed at preparation of assessment and examination procedures and documentation as a way
for introducing instruments for measuring the outputs of the education work. These educational
measurements will include standardized exam, which in future will be followed by introduction of the
Matura - graduation exam at the end of the full secondary education.
The breakout group was composed of representatives of the MOE-National Education Inspectorate,
MOE-Bureau of Education as an umbrella institution for the recently established Assessment Unit,
pedagogical faculties, Union of Secondary School Students, representative of parent association, directors
of primary and secondary schools, nonteaching staff- psychologists and pedagogues from primary schools,
and staff members of the AU.
The group discussed the progress in strengthening institutional framework which laid down the foundation
for the evaluation of students achievements. In this context, the group participants acknowledged the
importance of the establishment of the Assessment Unit. Strong appreciation was expressed for the support
provided for the continued institutional building of the Assessment Unit by the Dutch TA and both
in-country and extemally based training financed by the Government of the Netherlands. Nevertheless,
sustainability of the initiated efforts was discussed and concerns have been expressed as to the provision of
a continued systemic support to the operation of the Unit.
The group agreed that the Assessment Unit has succeeded to increase the technical quality of the
assessment instruments in terms of their validity, reliability and comparability. The experience with the
analysis of the results achieved through the Macedonian participation in the TIMSS was used as an
illustration in the group discussions. The group acknowledged that the newly developed tests should be
oriented towards measuring skills and capacities for critical thinking rather than the content-based
knowledge.
The group noted that the awareness of the education authorities for developing national standards
progressed to the point that the educational standards for mother tongue and mathematics in grade teaching
have been already developed. In this context the group expressed expectations that the AU will be given
continuous institutional support in the further development of the national standards and assessment
instruments.
The group discussed the impact of organization and implementation of field trials and main surveys for the
introduction of the new Matura project and concluded that the experience gained will be used in the next
steps to be undertaken with the secondary school authorities and the representatives of the existing
universities in the country in relation to the actual introduction of the Matura examination.
Summary of final conclusions:
*     Educational achievements ought to be measured and assessed at national level so that they can
provide data and indicators as major educational inputs for the development and assurance of the quality of
education.
*     The operational capacities of the AU should be used in further reform efforts for policy design and
implementation.
- 31 -



*     There must be cooperation among the pedagogical faculties in the country in relation to their
institutional strengthening as well as between the two universities in issues related to the innovation of the
final exams in the secondary education.
*     The external assessments and evaluation represent the basis for further development and
improvement of the new curricula, the pre-service and in-service training of teachers, improvements in the
textbook production and the education policy decision making.
Surestions for future
*     The positive experiences and outcomes from the Assessment & Evaluation project component
should be expanded to the secondary education in order to provide continuity of piloting efforts and to help
the education authorities to develop better teaching policies at local level.
*     Ministry of Education and Science should continuously provide support to the Assessment Unit in
terms of granting such institutional perspectives which would ensure further development of the process
and its finalization and the usage of assessments and evaluation for policy decisions in the filed of
education.
*     There is a shared expectation that the issues related to the monitoring of the quality of education
and quality assurance in primary and secondary education will receive adequate attention and consideration
in the matrix of the priorities set by the Ministry's Strategy for Development of Education for the period
2001-2010.
BREAKOUT GROUP IV: TEACHER TRAINING INITIATIVE
The development objective targeted by the Teacher Training component of the ERP was improvement of
the quality of the educational inputs by improving the skills of the teachers and developing policies and
strategies for the implementation of the reform of the teacher training practices and teacher career
development.
The breakout group has been composed of representatives of the academic community - methodologists,
pedagogues (pedagogical faculties), MOE-Bureau of Education, Teacher Association, parents, interactive
learning program "Step By Step", etc. Despite all efforts put in bringing in representatives of the former
and current Teacher Training Council, as a consultative body of the MOE set up to implement, monitor and
evaluate priority activities for pre-service and in-service teacher training, only two members of the inactive
TTC attended the workshop. This fact created difficulties for the group in terms of their limited capacity to
look back and analyze the past experience. The analysis of past experience in this case was even more
relevant given that due to the lack of initiatives and lack of implementing capacities at the Macedonian side,
the bilateral grant funding provided by the Government of Switzerland was cancelled while the IDA
allocation for this pilot was reallocated to other project component and category of costs, notably the civil
works.
Nevertheless, the break out group discussed extensively the outcomes and acquired experience from the
activities undertaken so far which initiated, implemented and attempted to evaluate programs related to
changes and developments in the area of effective teacher training. The group agreed that the teacher
training mechanisms need to be revised and adjusted to the new curriculum content and new teaching
- 32 -



methods.
The group discussed the organizational structure which needs to be in place in order to provide environment
for the new in-service training approaches and practices. In this context, the group agreed that the MOE
should set up a body or a resource center which should create its own network to ensure introduction of
competitiveness in the teacher training provision. This structure, however, according to the majority of the
group should not be completely independent but rather accountable to the education authorities and
transparent enough. The network of teacher training institutions should also include mentoring schools
based on the role of mentor teachers as a part of a cascade mechanism for training. The network of TT
institutions should provide horizontal opportunities for in-service training across competitive training
institutions among which there will be the pedagogical faculties from the universities in the country,
institutes, foundations, other kind of specialized nongovernmental organizations, private organizations, etc.
The competition requirements will be based on standards set by the MOE and its Teacher Training Council
motivated by international and more specifically European experiences.
The group discussed with great interest the issue of balancing the practical classroom experience with the
academic input specifically in the pre-service training of teachers. The positions taken indicate that there is
need for extension of teachers' practical training in the schools. Connected to the latter is the need for more
specific in-service training of the methodologists at the pedagogical faculties as a requirement for the
preparation of the new generation of teachers.
It was noted that the continued access to the teacher training is necessary as a part of the teacher career
development and regular requirements for the maintenance of the post. In this context the motivation of the
teachers for acquiring additional skills by obtaining diplomas, job promotions, increased wages, etc, was
mentioned as a very important factor.
The group acknowledged the impact of a number of pilot projects which represent good practice of new
approaches to the professional development of teachers. Among the pilot projects, which have been
significantly scaled up, specifically mentioned were programs such as "Step by Step" preschool and
primary school program financed by OSI Foundation, interactive learning project managed by Bureau of
Education and financed by UNICEF, Critical thinking program for secondary education, EU PHARE
supported vocational education project, project activities aimed at reform of higher education financed
through EU Program TEMPUS, etc. The group has expressed appreciation for these programs and the
value of having chance to evaluate them before their full national implementation occurs.
Summary of final conclusions and sui"estions for future:
*      The Teacher Training pilot designed under the ERP unfortunately failed to be implemented due to
various objective and subjective reasons, but mostly related to the frequent changes in the staff of the MOE
and the composition of the advisory body set up by MOE which resulted in the lack of institutional memory
about the activities undertaken in the course of the pilot.
*      Determination of clear policy of the MOE in relation to the encouragement of the reform of the
teacher training methodologies and the introduction of competitiveness in the teacher training provision.
*      Better balancing of the academic and the practical classroom experience with a recommendation
for expansion of the practical training of future teachers in the course of their pre-service training.
- 33 -



Enhancing of the institutional and the financial support for the diversified teacher training
structures, including support for the Teacher Training Council as an advisory body aimed at promoting the
quality of Teacher Training through providing standards and guidance.
CLOSURE OF THE WORKSHOP
The workshop ended with a closing speech by the director of the ERP Project Management Unit, Mr.
Ilievski, who stated that despite certain drawbacks which have been evident in the project implementation,
the experience gained in a number of activities within each project component has been extremely valuable.
The lessons learned reflect the level of the implementation capacity of the MOE, and indicate the points at
which increased efforts will have to be put in order to ensure improvement of this critical institutional
management capacity. As a final outcome, Mr. Ilievski stated, the main development objectives of the
project have been successfully achieved and the primary school children in Macedonian rural poor areas
will attend safer, lighter, nicer schools and to basically work in a significantly improved learning
environment.
Special thanks were extended to the foreign donor community, which in addition to the WB, included the
Dutch and the Swiss governments, but also the Open Society Institute, and the Catholic Relief Service as
direct implementing agency for the Parent Councils sub-component of the Civil Works project component,
for their continued commitment to help Macedonian education sector, for their patience and their immense
financial support. Finally but not lastly, the great thanks were extended to all participants in this project
who were so massively represented at the Stakeholder Workshop, for their efforts, their commitment and
their continued involvement in bringing the quality change in the Macedonian education sector.
Final observations of the author of this Draft Report:
The underlying topic of all four group discussions was the management and implementation capacity of
the MOE in terms of design, organization and execution of an investment project which at the same time
aimed at piloting several major education policy reforms (teacher training, textbook production,
assessments and evaluations). The latter has been an ambitious task particularly given that the ERP as a
mix of an investment plus policy reform project was the first such project financed and executed under the
WB rules and guidelines. The implication is that there has been a need throughout the entire lifetime of the
project of learning how to implement an investment project under the specific, rather strict but extremely
transparent rules of procurement, disbursement, accounting required by the WB. The fact that the project
management unit was fragmented into different smaller teams which worked under different MOE
departments and units, often subjected to personnel changes and discontinuity, hampered the natural
process of learning of the new procedures. Yet, the project, with small exemptions has been successfully
brought to closure, and the lesson which has been learned from that experience would hold for future and
would be basis for the implementation of the investment and infrastructure strategies of the MOE. In this
context, continued training and investments in the human resource capacities proves to be key for the
upgrading of the institutional and management capacities of the MOE.
The issue of the sustainability of the programs funded by the external financing, has been addressed by
each breakout group given that the project activities confirm the relevance of the pilot projects in helping
identification, testing and evaluation of the long-term policies through the short-term activities. Directly
connected to the latter, is the question as to how to provide longer-term sustainability for the piloted reform
activities, or with other words, how to transform a successful pilot into a system intervention. In addition,
- 34 -



the issue of proper use of the improved and upgraded skills and capacities of the staff who was involved in
the execution of the new piloted approaches and methodologies, is another side of this very important
aspect of the development objectives of the ERP. The lesson learned will directly impact the advancement
of the quality of educational outcomes and the education process results.
Attachments:
List of participants
Brief general overview of the project
Talking points for each breakout group
- 35 -



Annex 10. Borrower's Report
Project Coordination Unit
REPORT
On the Education Rehabilitation Project Implementation
Republic of Macedonia, trough it's Ministry of Finance, from International Development
Association (IDA) has received credit for the realization of the Education Rehabilitation Project.
Beside the World Bank (WB), in the provision of the financiers have been included international
financiers from Swiss and Holland. They donated funds as a support of the Project. As well, the
Republic of Macedonian has made its own contribution to funds provision.
The main objective of the Project was to assist the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in
the realization of the following tasks:
* Improving the learning environmental in primary schools in high poverty area, mainly in the rural
areas of the country;
*   Improving the quality of the educational contents;
-  Strengthening the Ministry of Education and Science (MOE) capacity to realize teacher training,
students' achievements assessment and curricula development.
The total amount of necessary funds for the Project realization was 12.6 million US$, that have been
provided by:
-  World Bank, trough IDA, in the amount of 5 mills. US$;
-  Dutch Grant, in the amount of 4,7 mill. USA$;
-  Swiss grant, in the amount of 1,5 mill. USA$;
-  Soros Foundation, in the amount of 0,2 mill. USA$, and
-  The Budget of the Republic of Macedonia in the amount of 1,2 mill. USA$, or 15% of the amount
of the financed civil construction works..
In the Project have been included the following sub-projects:
1. Primary schools rehabilitation (10,6 miL USA$)
Under the Project has been foreseen rehabilitation of the 56 primary schools in the rural areas, divided
into two Phases. The first Phase covered financial arrangements from IDA credit for 14 schools, the
Swiss Grant for two and Dutch Grant for three schools. The second phase covered financial
arrangements of the Dutch Grant for the next 11 schools, and the additional 4, or in total 15 primary
schools. In the Project were included in total 34 primary schools.
According to the planning, it has been foreseen the Second Phase to be competed by 31 .December
2001, as a closing date, but due to inclusion of the 4 additional schools, as well due to the need for
competition of the schools from the First Phase, it has been necessary to prolong the Project
implementation for 3 months, or by 31 st of March 2002.
- 36 -



The foreseen amount for the implementation of this sub-project was 10,7, but the total disbursed
amount is 10,94 mil. USA$. Under this sub-project in cooperation with CRS, in each school have been
established Parent Councils, with the purpose to strengthen the parent involvement in the school
maintenance, as well as to establish the sustainable and effective parents organization for educational
environmental improvement in the primary schools.
This sub-project for school rehabilitation covered the following schools:
First Phase:
Number  Building (Primary School)              Place              Region
1    Vanco Prke                    Gabrovo             Delcevo
2    R. Voka                       Sipkovica            Tetovo
3    Agim Fraseri                  Rakovec              Tetovo
4    Marsal Tito                   Labuniste            Struga
5    J. Smugreski                  Obrsani              Prilep
6    Goce Delcev                   Tremnik              Negotino
7    S. Stojmenski                 Gradec               Vinica
8    Edinstvo                      Oktisi               Struga
9    Vera C. Trena                 Debriste             Prilep
10   Kiril i Metodij               Izvor                Veles
11   L. Gurakuki                   Zelino               Tetovo
12   Krste Misirkov                Bistrica             Bitola
13   P. Pop Arsov                  Bogomola             Veles
14   H. T. Karpos                  M. Nagori-.          Kumanovo
15   Mosa Pijade                   C. Zupa              Debar
16   Faik Konica                   Odri                 Tetovo
17   Bratstvo-Edinstvo             Beloviste            Gostivar
18   K. Pejcimovik                 Tearce               Tetovo
|   19   Kiril i Metodij           Kanatlarci           Prilep
Second Phase:
No.   Building (Primary School)             Place              Region
20/1-1  11 Oktomvri                  Urvic               Tetovo
21/1-2  H. T. Karpos                 Tromela             Kumanovo
22/1   Koco Racin                   Slegovo             Kratovo
23/2   Debrca                       Belista             Ohrid
24/3   Pasko Vasa                   Rogle               Tetovo
25/4  Joakim Krcovski               Rankovci             K. Palanka
26/5   Vanco Prke                   Lakavica             Stip
27/6   D. Stojanovska               Dolno Sowe           Skopje
28/7   D. I. Malesevski             Budinarci           Berovo
- 37 -



29/8   Marsal Tito                    Sacevo Bosilovo       Strumica
Goce Delcev
30/9   Koco Racin                     Dobrosane             Kumanovo
31/10   Dame Gruev                     Mustafino             S. Nikole
32/11   D. Stojanovska                 Dobri Dol             Skopje
33/12   Orce Nikolov                   Kalulerica           Radovis
2. Textbooks Pilot Project (0,7 miL USA $)
Short-term objective of this sub-project has been to encourage the private text-book publishers to have
active to role in textbook publishing.
The mid-term objective has been to improve the textbook pedagogical and physical qualities and the
control over the textbook prices.
For this sub-project has been foreseen 0,7 mil. USA$, out of them 0,4 Mil. USA$ from IDA credit and
0,2 Mil. USA$ from Soros Foundation, for services and training. But, is being disbursed 0,24 mil.
USA$ only.
3. Teacher training initiative (0, 7 miL USA $)
This sub-project is comprised of implementation and development of Pilot Teacher Resource Center
with provision of small construction works, educational materials and equipment, technical assistance
and training and study tours in foreign countries for development of the Teacher Training Council. For
the implementation of this activities have been planed the following expenditures: 0,2 mil. USA$ from
IDA credit for equipment and 0.5 mil. USA$ from the Swiss Grant for services.
4. Initiative for Assessment of Teaching (0,5 miL USA $)
This sub-project is comprised of provision of technical assistance, training abroad, materials and
equipment for the development, and for involvement of better potentials in the MOE for teaching
assessment
For the sub-project implementation have been provided funds in total amount of 0,5 mil. USA$, out of
which, from IDA credit 0,1 mil USA$ for equipment and from the Dutch Grant 0,4 mill. USA$ for
services.
Project Implementation
This sub-project has included technical assistance provision, equipment and vehicle for the
Management Unit for the Project, established under the MOE. The tasks of the Unit have been to
manage, coordinate and follow the Project implementation. For the realization of this sub-project have
been provided funds from IDA credit in the amount of 0,1 mil. USA $. Mainly, the funds for this
- 38 -



sub-project were re-allocated to the sub-project for the primary school rehabilitation and for the
consultant services of the independent supervisors.
The estimated and the real costs of the Project components are presented in the Table that is given as
the attachment to this Report.
- 39 -



THE OPINION
OF THE MINISTER FOR THE PROJECT
Civil construction works
The Civil Construction works it has been the main Component of the Project that was given the great
attention. The reconstruction of the school infrastructure, has been the first priority of this Government
since the beginning of its mandate. Basically, the Program for school reconstruction dated since the
1991, after the first plural parliamentary elections. But, only during the recent few years it has been
given the real opportunity for the realization. The basic objectives of this plan set up by the Ministry
are the following:
1. To increase dynamic of school rehabilitation, firstly on the primary schools with the aim to provide
technical and hygiene norms;
2. To increase the capacity of the Ministry's Unit in planning and administration of the civil
construction works on the schools;
3. To increase the cost efficiency in expenditures;
4. To raise the bigger funds from the State Budget and donator's community, and
5. To increase the awareness of the local community for the need of modem educational
infrastructure and care for its maintenance and preservation as well on the side of the central and local
govemment, teachers, parents and the students.
The set up objectives of this component have been successfully achieved. Thankfully to this Pilot
Project have been done the following:
1. Reconstructed 34 rural schools previously in very poor conditions. After the rehabilitation, the
schools present the good example of public buildings, as it should look -alike.
2. Respecting in full the World Bank procedures, the MOE Department for civil construction works,
has gained excellent experience in prompt and in time reaction in the doing preparatory works for
performing civil works and contracting. The status of this Department in the new systematization of the
MOE is more clearly defined and its capacity is improved. As the result of this at the present situation,
the Unit is far more efficient in performing much bigger scope of civil works.
3. Constantly following the strict and clear World Bank regulations and procedure and increasing the
transparency in the work, we have contributed to better efficiency in the WB funds disbursement, and
also in disbursement of funds gained from different resources. At the present, the inherited situation
when some of the buildings, despite the full done payments, have been abandoned not even
half-completed is overcome. There are not anymore abandoned buildings with stopped works. Also,
thanks to the rationalization in the funds usage, out of the planned project funds, we have done one
more additional 2.b Phase. Within this Phase ten additional school buildings have been rehabilitated.
4. As the result of the successful implementation of this Component and the overall commitment of
the Ministry of Education and Science, additional funds have been raised from the Program for poverty
reducing (2000), from the Program for investments in the public sector of purchasing TELECOM, and
also from several donators, and
5. Local communities with special pleasure accepted the results of this Component. This is their
motivation to attract additional investments and to be direct involved in the parents and local
communities and to perform smaller construction works and maintenance
- 40 -



During the implementation of this Component, some misunderstandings have appeared but in a due time
they were overcome. Such case was the MOE proposal for termination of some contracts due to
non-serious contractors. The Word Bank had fears that with determination of the contracts, the
activities would be canceled. It has been proved that with the selections of the new contractors, the
problems have been solved in a best possible manner. Due to the reserves of the World Bank,
concerning the personal changes that have been done by MOE at the beginning of this Goveirnent
mandate, several months have been just wasted.
In the time course, these misunderstandings have been fully overcome and the activities have been speed
up in continuity.
At the beginning of this Government mandate, within this Component in collaboration with CRS have
been established Parents Councils, who started to implement some kind of political activities in
performing some actions with the purpose to prevent the nomination of new school directors, what is
out of their responsibility. Thanks to the overall activity of the CRS, this kind of problems have been
solved and the Parents Councils fully started to play their role of the MOE partners in motivation the
local community in rehabilitation and maintenance of the schools. The further collaboration with CRS
in this and other activities in other projects, is being shown as extraordinary successful.
Pilot Textbooks
Even thou this component have been one of the Government priority, unfortunately its progress was
very slow under this Project. The reason for this was the full political engagement of the Project
partner, OSI- Macedonia, who appeared to be very uncooperative. Right after the coming of this
Government, at the beginning of 1999, the Committee set up within this Component was cancelled due
to the following two reasons:
a) It was not in accordance with the present legal framework, and
b) According to its constitution, it has been too much on the side of the publishing company Prosvetno
Delo, which, at that time had the monopoly over the textbook publishing.
Many times, The Ministry has been undertaking the appropriate activities for reanimation of this
Component, but the participants from Soros constantly blamed MOE for disturbance of the project
continuity with doing replacement of the existing staff. The comments of OSI- Macedonia on the
unsatisfactory staff equipment of MOE in respect of the textbook are fully unsubstantial. Within the
Ministry there is a special unit, established in accordance with the Law on the Governmental Bodies,
that is Pedagogical Service, responsible for the textbook issues. The OSI- Macedonia representatives
still are refusing the cooperation with this responsible Unit. This attitude of OSI- Macedonia can be
explained with their maximum politicization. In the Management of this Institution there are the persons
who are the high functionaries of the previous Party who was on power, SDSM, and they use this
position to achieve political purposes The Minster has the opinion that closer cooperation with OSI-
Macedonia is not possible unless the Central Head Office undertakes some appropriate staff
replacement of the local management board with staff that is not directly involved in the politics and
who would be much more dedicated to the progress in the filed of the education.
The cooperation with the foreign Technical Assistant is being assessed as the outstanding. His offered
advises are built in the MOE policy.
The basic commitments of the MOE on the area of textbook publishing are as follows:
- 41 -



1. To establish the competency;
2. Free use of the additional literature;
3. To provide opportunity for choice of textbook for the same subject by different authors;
4. To decrease the textbook prices with the provided quality.
The following issues are the basic commitments of MOE in the area of textbooks:
1. Competency in the textbook publishing suffers a lot from the inherited monopoly position of
Prosvetno Delo, that used to be State Publisher. This position still remains due to previously achieved
financial power with different forms of pressure on the authors and Committees for textbook approval.
The MOE has in possession concrete written signed complains by the members for the done pressure in
making decisions;
2. By the end of 1999 have been amended certain provisions of laws on primary and secondary
education. In this respect, all kinds of helpful additional literature have been released from state control,
except the textbooks. The Ministry is preparing measures for popularization of these solutions.
3. The Ministry is in process of implementing the policy for approval of all textbooks that meet
pedagogical and technical norms, with the purpose to increase the competency and to offer opportunity
to the teachers and parents to make choice.
Assessment and Evaluation
During the implementation, this Component was stable and it has being assessed as an outstanding
achievement As the result of it, in 1999 at the Bureau for Education Development, within the Ministry
of Education and Science, has been established Assessment Unit. We have foreseen this Bureau Unit to
be paid much bigger attention, on the account of certain existing departments that will be gradually
reduced. The functions of the assessment Unit with the present tasks will have treatment as one of the
MOE priorities, which need increased allocation of funds out of the State Budget.
In the frame of the started reforms of the gymnasium education it has being foreseen the Assessment
Unit to be involved in the implementation of the standard national Matura (Priority No. 4 in the
Strategy 2001).
Teacher Training
To undertake the changes in the system of teacher training is the task that has been subject of
discussion in the Macedonian system of education for long time ago. But until now, it hasn't been done
some significant achievements. According to the Minister, there are two main reasons for unsuccessful
numbers of trials to make changes in this field, as follows:
1. According the present regulation, Bureau for Education Development is the only one authorized
institution for organization and implementation of the teacher training. Despite the engagement of the
higher educational institutions in training, such Bureau position limits the opportunities for competency,
differentiation and better quality in training.
2. There is lack of critical mass of educational experts who are able to initiate serious changes in the
system of teacher training.
-42 -



In the respect of searching for solutions, essentially, these two problems have different weight:
1. The changes in the laws for primary and secondary education are in the process of preparation.
That will enable equal involvement of the teaching faculties and other institutions in re-training of
teachers. Alongside this, the establishment of the centers for permanent education of teachers at the
teaching faculties has being favored. (Priority No.24 in the Strategy 2001);
2. This problem is essential and for its solution will be needed longer period of time. It is necessary to
form expert staff that will have special training in European Countries.
In the frame of the Project, the first team was replaced due to lack of clear conception for the work (the
Study tour to Swiss was planned only for gaining the new ideas for what should be worked in the
Project).
The second team has elaborated its own strategy for work, but it was not enough efficient in achieving
satisfactory results.
In the further activity is necessary to make much more serious preparation before the start of the
implementation of these important activities.
- 43 -



- 44 -



