Document of
The WVorld Bank
Report No. 16686-MK
STAFF APP'RAISAL REPORT
Former Yugoslav Republic Of Macedonia
Education Rehabilitation Project
August 6, 1997
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July31, 1997)
Currency Unit: Macedonian Dinars (MD)
US$1.00 = MD56
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CRS           Catholic Relief Services
CY            Calendar Year
DC            Direct Contracting
FY            Fiscal Year of the World Bank
GPN           General Procurement Notice
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IMF           International Monetary Fund
IS            International Shopping
MOE           Ministry of Education and Physical Culture
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NS            National Shopping
PIM           Pedagogical Institute of Macedonia
PMU           Project Management Unit
OSI           Open Society Institute (Soros Foundation)
SSAC          Social Sectors Adjustment Credit
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TA            Technical Assistance
UNESCO        United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
Director: Ajay Chhibber (ECC06)
Acting Sector Director: Chris Lovelace (ECSHD)
Responsible Staff: Jim Stevens, Task Manager (ECSHD)
Johanna Crighton (Consultant, Assessments)
David Banks (Consultant, Teacher Training)
David Foster (Consultant, Textbooks)
Mircea Enache (Consultant, School Mapping)
Ron Issacson (Consultant, Implementation)
Hera Sutrisna, Sr. Staff Assistant (ECSHD)
Peer Reviewers: Himelda Martinez (ASTHR)
Simon Strachen (UNICEF-Skopje)
Marc Cohen (UNESCO-Paris)



STAFF APPItAISAL REPORT
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Education Relhabilitation Project
Ccontents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary .....................................................................i
1. ISSUES IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR.                                                        I
A.  Public Sector Resource Management Issues .
B. Legal and Institutional Issues.                                                  2
C. Equity and Access-related Issues.                                                3
D. Curriculum-related Issues                        .4
E. Assessment-related Issues.                                                       5
F. Textbook-related Issues                         .6
G. Teacher Training-related Issues.                                                 7
II.  THE RECOVERY OBJECTIVES FOR EDUCATION AND THE
BANK'S RESPONSE                                .9
III. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                  ..11
A. School Rehabilitation .11
B. Textbook Pilot .12
C. Teacher Training Initiative .13
D. Assessment Initiative .14
E. Project Management Unit .14
F. Project Costs and Financing Plan .15
IV. PROJECT RATIONALE .17
V. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION  ..21
A. Project Implementation .21
B. Procurement .22
C. Disbursements .24
D. Project Audits, Accounting and Reporting .25
E. Supervision Plan .25



Page No.
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................................................  27
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................. .......................  29
TABLES
Table 3.1: Cost and Financing Plan by Expenditure Category
Table 3.2; Cost by Component by Year
Table 5.1: Procurement Arrangements
Table 5.2: Disbursement Categories and Schedule
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Project Cost Summary
Appendix 2: Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Appendix 3: School Rehabilitation Overview
Appendix 4: Project Procurement Plan
MAP
IBRD 28957



Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Education Rehabilitation Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Beneficiaries:            Students, Teachers, Ministry of Education and Physical Culture
Amount:                   Credit: SDR 3.6 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA, with 35 years maturity
Financing plan:           IDA Credit          US$  5.0 million
Government         US$, 0.6 million
Financing Gap      US$  7.0 million
Total              US$ 12.6 million
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Poverty Category:         Not applicable
Map:                      IBRD 28957
Project ID Number:        MK-PE-38391



I



Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Education Rehabilitation Project
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1.  ISSUES IN THIE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.    PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ISSUES
1.1    Overall educational effort. The share of the overall government budget devoted to education
(14-15 percent) remains reasonable compared to other countries in the region and to OECD countries.
However, education spending as a share of GDP hias fallen from nearly 8 percent in 1991 to below 6
percent in 1997; this has coincided with a period of sharp GDP decline. The result has been a sharp
decline in both nominal and real budget allocations for education. Per student spending per annum at the
primary level has declined steadily in real terms (constant 1992 prices) from just under $400 in 1991 to
about $230 in 1997. The education sector has coped with this serious reduction in funding through a
salary freeze at nominal 1994 levels and by reducing its budgets for everything but salaries (over 80
percent of budgeted funds) and utilities, such as rising heating and utility costs. To make matters worse,
lower than expected revenues have caused actual expenditures to be 10- 15 percent less than what is
budgeted. Because salaries are paid in full, capital investments, discretionary non-salary spending on
educational inputs, and maintenance of facilities go largely unfunded. As would be expected in this
situation, physical infrastructure -- old to begin with -- is deteriorating rapidly and the quality of
education is at serious risk of decline. Given the importance of human resource development in
stimulating a successful long term economic transition, the current share of GDP devoted to education
should be protected, at a minimum, and should probably increase. Steps should also be, in conjunction
with reducing staff numbers in the sector, to give non-salary educational expenditure priority when
revenue shortfalls occur.
1.2    Needfor budget re-allocations. The formter Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's share of
personnel expenditure in its public education budget (80 percent) is by far the highest in the region, and
its budget allocation for capital expenditure (3 percent) is by far the lowest in the region, and only about
half this amount is actually spent. Per student spending for capital renewal is below $6 per annum.
Increasing spending for capital expenditure can best be accomplished through international aid, and is
thus the major investment focus of this project. Increasing education spending on non-salary inputs
within the current budgetary constraints can only be carried out through a combination of reducing
teaching staff (see below) and shifting these resources to non-salary inputs such as teacher in-service
training, educational materials and other expenditures which allow teaching and technical staff to do
their jobs better. Given the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's economic status, spending on
student welfare (about 7 percent of the budget) cannot be expected to decline significantly in the medium
term; instead the focus should be put on better targeting these resources, particularly in higher education.



-2 -
1.3    Controlling spending on personnel. In view of budget constraints, the Ministry of Education and
Physical Culture (MOE) has no choice but to reduce the number of personnel working in the sector. The
development of a plan to reduce teaching and non-teaching staff has been made a central focus of SSAC
conditionality. This process is complicated by the well-justified constitutional obligation to provide
education in multiple languages (Macedonian, Albanian, Serbian, Turkish, Romany and Vlachs), which
necessarily results in inefficient student/teacher ratios given small groupings of various language groups.
Pupil:teacher ratios are currently about 19:1 in primary and 16:1 in secondary, well below OECD
averages. Due to political necessity, the MOE is expected to deal with the need for reducing teacher
numbers through attrition followed by selective replacement. Thus, efforts to reduce the teaching force
will likely not reflect a perfectly rational mix of needed teaching skills. Staff reductions for primary
education are expected to be on the order of about 2 percent per year for at least the next three years.
Reducing the numbers of highily specialized vocational teachers through means other than attrition --
mainly lay-offs and re-training -- may have to be addressed in the context of an overall restructuring of
that sector.
B.    LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
1.4    Several key pieces of legislation -- including the laws on pre-school, social care of children, and
higher education -- are not yet in place, leaving important issues unresolved. Among them are (a) the
control of the pre-school budget, and the separation between social and educational services to pre-
school children; and (b) the "degree" structure within secondary and higher education, which is still
governed by the structure set out in a 1985 law of the former Yugoslavia.
1.5    Other issues, not currently under active legal consideration but of concern in educational circles,
are the possible extension of compulsory education from 8 to 9 years, with the entrance age lowered
from 7 to 6; the implementation of the Matura examination at the end of full secondary; the status of
external qualifications, such as the International Baccalaureate (IB), in university admissions; and the
implementation of a teacher appraisal system and its implications for the respective roles of inspectors
and advisers.
1.6   Institutionally, the most pressing issues are: (a) the need for more effective communications
between the MOE and its Pedagogical Institute (PIM), partly due to the geographical distance between
the Ministry and the unsatisfactory housing for PIM which is located in temporary barracks far removed
from the MOE; (b) the fact that the PIM Directorship has been vacant for two years; (c) the large and
ever-increasing workload of the PIM due to recent changes in legislation that give it responsibility for
curriculum development, textbook approval, in-service teacher training, inspections and evaluating
student performance; (d) the internal structure of the PIM, which is organized by sector (pre-school and
Grades 1-4, subject teaching Grades 5-8, secondary, vocational) rather than functions (curriculum,
assessment, teacher training), leading to duplication of effort and inefficient use of expertise within the
PIM; (e) the lack of a focus for the coherent implementation of education reforms, either in the MOE
(there is, for example, no Planning Department in the MOE yet, although one is being proposed) or in the
PIM (there is, for example, no cadre of testing/assessment specialists, and examinations are prepared by
various people in each section).
1.7    With respect to quality assurance, the MOE-based Inspectorate mainly focuses on the
organization and administration of schools, while the PIM concerns itself with matters of content and
delivery. There is little contact between inspectors and advisers, and little mutual understanding and
trust. For example, now that the law requires that all teachers must be appraised every two years, no



- 3 -
thought has yet been given as to how the two agencies might work together to design a quality
monitoring system for schools with clearly specified, complementary roles for inspection and advice, and
clearly specified ways in which a struggling or failing teacher might be helped rather than penalized. A
second, but related, issue is that of adequate coverage for the country. With 30 Inspectors and
approximately 150 PIM advisers the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia appears to be reasonably
well provided for, but in practice school visits are irregular and follow-up is haphazard, partly because of
the lack of communication between the Inspectorate and the PIM but also because of (a) inadequate
travel funds; (b) lack of experienced advisers in some subjects or minority languages; and (c) lack of
well-defined roles and co-ordinated plans.
C.    EQuITY AND ACCESS-RELATED ISSUES
1 .8    Traditionally, countries in the region have been able to reach near-universal access to basic
education, with enrollment ratios in the upper 90s. However, the poorer countries now find it difficult to
maintain access to basic education, with a marked decline in countries such as the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia (93.2% in 1990 to 87.2% in 1994), Albania (100.6% in 1990 to 95.3% in 1994),
Bulgaria (97.8% in 1990 to 91.9% in 1994), and Romania (98.3% in 1990 to 94.6% in 1994). At the
same time, the more affluent countries in the region have been able to maintain their enrollment rates
(the Czech Republic, Hungary). In secondary education, access is also deteriorating in the less affluent
countries, with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's gross enrollment rates declining from
56.8% in 1990 to 52.3% in 1994. Access to higher education has traditionally been more restricted in the
region, but is now rising rapidly in such countries as Hungary, Romania, Poland and Slovenia; in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, it has remained stable at about 12-14% of the age group since
1990.1
1.9    Provision. The Ministry and the PIM  make strong, positive, and commendable efforts to ensure
that all children in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, regardless of gender, color, national,
ethnic or social origin, political or religious beliefs, property, and social status have equal access to, and
opportunities in, education. Inevitably, however, there are differences of provision in rural and urban
areas, and participation rates of some ethnic minorities (especially Roma) are less than those of others.
There are certain inefficiencies in providing every curriculum, textbook, test, etc. in as many as four or
even five languages, but in order to protect children's rights and to address minority inequities, these
must be accommodated.
1.10   Sector inequities. Judging from the allocation of funds to the various levels within the system,
there is some evidence that higher education and pre-school education are relatively over-funded
compared to the compulsory (basic, 8-year) level. Pre-school in particular is heavily subsidized by the
state. Since pre-school (and higher education) are non-compulsory and accessible almost exclusively to
urban and more well-off families, there is a case to be made for re-allocating funding to the compulsory
sector which is often the only schooling available to rural and poor children.
1.11   Gender. There appears to be no significant difference in the overall participation rates for girls
and boys, although at secondary level (especially in vocational education) there are more boys than girls,
"Social Challenges of Transition: Education Sector". The World Bank, Human Resources Sector Operations
Division, Central and Southem Europe Departments, Europe and Central Asia Region. Washington, November
1995, p. 18. These are gross enrollment rates based on the World Bank's own demographic data which may
differ from those available in the countries themselves.



- 4 -
and there is a clear segregation between subjects that are traditionally "male" (mechanics, mining,
carpentry) and those that are traditionally "female" (medical subjects, hairdressing, secretarial, catering).
1.12   Urban-rural. At the time of independence in 1993, there was a significant "urban drift" from
rural areas into towns, often by families in search of work or better living conditions. During that period,
the MOE closed a number of rural schools, especially those that were in poor condition or in areas where
de-population was severe. Recently, families have begun to move back to the villages, putting pressure
on the MOE to rehabilitate and re-open sclhools. Due to lack of resources and the almost complete
absence of any capital investment budget for the MOE, about half of all rural schools are dilapidated,
overcrowded and insufficiently furnished and heated. Such conditions are not conducive to improving
equity between rural and urban communities, poor and more affluent children, and among nationalities.
A further source of inequity is the lack, in some cases, of qualified teachers in some subjects or
languages of instruction, but the MOE is making every effort to address this problem.
1.13   Family income. Several factors, especially the dramatic rise in unemployment (about 28%
overall of the population between 18-57), lay-offs, arrears in payment of salaries, and a rise in living
costs have increased the proportion of the population that lives at or below the poverty line. At the same
time, the costs of schooling have gone up; parents pay for textbooks (at Grade 1, this can be as high as
$50 per child; a set of Co-Ordinated Science textbooks for upper elementary (Oxford University Press,
published in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia by Prosvetno Delo) costs about $17.50).
Parents also pay for food (this can be as high as $30/per month) and for incidental expenses such as
exercise books, supplementary readers, art materials etc. The average monthly wage in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is about US$ 175 equivalent.
D.    CURRICULUM-RELATED ISSUES
1.14. Current status. At independence in 1993, a "standing committee" was established to draft
proposals for curriculum reform. Little real progress has been made until recently. "Concept"
documents have now been prepared -- one for elementary education and one for secondary education --as
well as a well-intentioned, but insufficient re-grouping of vocational subjects. All three of these
documents were accepted by the Minister of Education in October 1996. Currently, however, 25 subject
working groups have been set up under the PIM, each with a co-ordinator, to produce one new curricula.
1.15   Proposals have been made to reduce the prescribed, common core of the curriculum to 70%, with
30% available for schools and teachers to use more flexibly. Experience with this type of arrangement in
other countries in the region, however, shows that teachers find it difficult to determine which "30% " of
the curriculum is open to local variation; some interpret it to mean "30% of the timetable" while others
try to introduce up to 30% "local content" into some, but not all, curricula. Through lack of training in
local curriculum development, and lack of good supporting materials, most teachers simply continue to
teach 100% of the prescribed curriculum. Effective use of curriculum flexibility will require training and
resources. In addition, there is an obvious need to phase and co-ordinate the introduction of new
curricula so that they will benefit the majority of pupils during their school careers, and to synchronize
this with the introduction of new-style assessment types, teaching methods, and textbooks.
1.16   With regard to the elementary curriculum, the PIM staff state that they attempted, but did not
succeed in including two innovations: (1) differentiation of the curriculum "by level of ability and



-5 -
interest"2, and (2) a change in elementary education from 8 to 9 years, with pupils starting at age 6 rather
than age 7. Clearly, these issues have important pedagogical and financial implications and would need
thorough debate before they are considered again.
1.17   At secondary level, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shows the same -- although
much more moderate -- shift of pupils away from vocational and into general education as other
countries in the region (general education showed an increase from 22.9% in 1992 to 28.8% in 1995).
This means that general secondary programs (gininazia) will increasingly need to cater to pupils of a
wide range of academic ability. Curricula will need to be adapted accordingly.
1.18   Curriculum reform is particularly urgent iin secondary professional (vocational) education, which
despite recent efforts is still far too specialized. The newly re-grouped system of 15 clusters and 111
separate "occupations" does not represent a significant reform of content or orientation and should be
fundamentally reviewed on the basis of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's economic needs.
In preparing the latest revision (October 1996), no research was done to determine whether these 111
occupations actually reflect what the labor market demands and can absorb; in any case, it appears
unnecessary to have 4-year programs for the training of "pyrotecnists", or to make fine distinctions
between "locksmith-welders", "mechanical locksmiths", and "metalsmiths" (each a 3-year course), or to
offer a course for "green surfaces arrangers" (2 years, in the "forestry" cluster). A shift to broader,
competency-based (rather than occupational) curricula is needed.
1.19   The development of an overall strategy to provide a better balance between general and
vocational/technical education is of prime importance, especially since (a) the majority of secondary
school pupils are still enrolled in vocational programs; (b) the majority of graduates become unemployed
or fail to find employment in the occupation for which they were trained; and (c) highly specialized
vocational secondary education is expensive, in terms of low student/teacher ratios and training
equipment, as well as externally inefficient in tenns of the flexible skills demanded by the rapidly
changing labor market.
E.     ASSESSMENT-RELATED ISSUES
1.20   Current status. There is at present no mechanism to permit the MOE to monitor standards in
learner achievement across schools or over time, and no systematic data on the quality of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's education is collected or analyzed for feedback into MOE policy
formulation. Assessment in schools is continuous and tests are teacher-made. Only the grading system
is laid down by law (5-1 with 5=highest, and l=fail). Marks are aggregated by subject, and promotion to
the next grade is determined by the number of passing grades at the end of the year. In general,
repetition and drop-out rates are low in compulsory schools, and if they are high (as they were in upper
secondary), measures are taken to help failing pupils and to ensure that they leave school with some
qualification. There is no external test between (Grade 4 and Grade 5 (the transition from class-teaching
to subject-teaching). Written tests at the end of Grade 8 are set by the PIM (Macedonian language and
literature, and Mathematics). The 1995 Law on Secondary Education requires the introduction, by 2002,
of an external secondary school-leaving examination ("Matura") in five subjects. The following further
issues have been identified:
2   This means "streaming" or "tracking" pupils within classes.



-6 -
* The MOE does not, at present, earmark any funds for evaluation or assessment of learner
achievement. With an annual education budget of $223 million, this reflects a worrying lack of
commitment to quality assurance in the education system of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. In a diversifying system, where the emphasis should shift away from rigid control of
inputs (curricula, textbooks, teaching methods), there will be an increasing need for monitoring the
quality of "output": what learners actually learn and achieve as a result of their schooling. There is,
however, no identifiable unit, or a cadre of trained experts, for assessment either in the MOE or in
the PIM. No staff member has specialist training in educational measurement.
*  Assessment instruments are of low technical quality: they lack validity, reliability, and comparability
in terms of difficulty levels and over time. Few resources or examples of good practice are available.
*  Teacher-made tests, test questions at the end of textbook sections, and PIM-set Grade-8 tests are
heavily knowledge- and content-based, and ask for "factography" rather than application or higher-
level skills such as problem solving or critical thinking. As long as the test requires the recall of
facts, that is what teachers will continue to teach and pupils will continue to learn, regardless of any
new curricula or teaching methods. Such tests have therefore a "negative backwash" effect on
teaching and learning, and must be changed.
*  There is no attempt to equate the marks given by individual teachers: no guidance is given as to what
level of performance a "5" or a "3" represents, and therefore the same level of achievement can
receive quite different marks from different teachers, and different schools also apply different
"standards" so that no conclusions about learner achievement can be drawn either across schools or
over time.
*  There is an awareness both within the MOE and the PIM of the need to formulate "national
standards", on the basis of which curricula and assessment instruments can be designed. However,
there is no agreement as to what such "national standards" should look like, who should establish
them, or how they could be made to link with European or international "standards".
*  The new legal requirement for the introduction of a "Matura" examination at the end of full (4-year)
secondary education will be a useful focus for the development of such standards, and for the
improvement of assessment-related expertise in the PIM and among teachers.
*  As competition for university places increases, there will be pressure on faculties to select students
on more rigorous and "objective" criteria; thus the need for a more comprehensive and more
professional system of assessment will grow. The PIM is well aware of this, and also acknowledges
that there is a lack of expertise in modem assessment theory and practice; moreover, the PIM is
aware that, ideally, the development of assessment objectives and models should be done in parallel
with (and not after) the development of new curricula.
F.     TEXTBOOK-RELATED ISSUES
1.21   The main issues here are competition, fairness, quality, and price. There is wide support for
liberalizing textbook provision in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and for ensuring that the
new status of the state publisher, Prosvetno Delo, as a "social enterprise" is, in fact, no longer that of a
state monopoly. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is fortunate in that (a) it already possesses
a relatively flourishing private (general) publishing sector; (b) parents are becoming gradually used to



-7 -
paying for textbooks, and have shown themselves willing to buy high-quality supplementary materials if
they are available at a reasonable price; and (c) some of the general book publishers have their own
bookshops and marketing/distribution networks through which they could reach most schools in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The stage seems set for a fairly rapid and successful opening-
up of the school textbook market.
1.22   At present, however, this market is not attractive to publishers, primarily because of the stringent
legal requirements to produce textbooks not only in Macedonian but in all minority languages. While this
is in itself commendable and clearly in accordance with the Constitution and the law, there is a danger
that smaller, private publishers would not be interested in producing (or finanicially unable to produce)
unprofitable small runs of textbooks - such as those in Turkish or Serbian - unless the MOE arranges
subsidies for such books. The following further issues have been identified:
*   A major issue is Prosvetno Delo's present representation at various levels in the textbook
approval procedure. If all textbook publishers in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
are "equal", then they either should all be represented (e.g., through the Association of
Publishers) or there should be no publisher representation on approval committees at all.
*   The transparency and fairness of the evaluation procedure should be investigated and improved.
At present, the public perception is that the current procedure is far from being fair and open,
with most important decisions made between the PIM (where many professionals are authors of
textbooks) and Prosvetno Delo, which employs PIM members on its editorial boards.
*   As for content, Prosvetno Delo staff rightly point out that an overloaded curriculum leads to
overloaded, fact-crammed books to ensure full coverage of the curriculum. Textbook reform
must obviously go hand in hand with curriculum reform efforts, already underway.
* The physical quality of the books will also need to be improved so that they last longer. Better-
quality, sewn, hard-back textbooks are a better investment for families with more than one child,
and indeed schools could attempt to formLalize the existing second- or third-hand market and/or
adopt a rental scheme whereby books are recycled and made available to the next cohort at lower
cost.
G.    TEACHER TRAINING-RELATED ISSUES
1.23   Pre-Service: Now that the new Education Laws of 1995 are in place, and curriculum revisions
are underway, it is important that pedagogical faculties carefully review and revise their pre-service
teacher training programs to reflect changes in pedagogy and teaching methods. For example, the
introduction of an interactive learning approach in elementary schools will mean an entirely new role for
teachers. Instead of being the source of all knowledge and instruction, they must become facilitators,
helping children to be active in their own learning and allowing them to work in flexible groupings on
varying tasks using a wide variety of books and rnaterials. In particular, pre-service teacher training
should place far greater emphasis on the assessment of pupil leaming and progress, and less emphasis on
teaching as if it were an end in itself. The following issues have been identified:
* Institutions: There has been a clear breakdown in relations between teaching faculties and
schools. There is a need to involve schools more fully in the development of training programs,



-8-
and to make sure that teacher trainees spend more time in schools doing student teaching before
they are certified.
* Content: There is a need to change the teacher training curriculum guidelines to give more focus
to teaching methodologies and to practice teaching. Teacher trainees also need more exposure to
new and innovative uses of learning aids. At the same time, a mechanism needs to be
established to define and monitor standard competencies which students must achieve prior to
certification. There is also a clear need to provide more opportunities for teacher training faculty
staff to update their skills.
1.24   In-service: The introduction of educational reforms always relies heavily on in-service teacher
training, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's reforms will require innovations in this field
given the lack of resources to undertake traditional in-service training workshops for all teachers in the
medium term. At present, however, the PIM is severely over-stretched and will not be able to deliver
such a campaign without developing new strategies for providing this training. Outside support will be
essential, particularly in areas where the PIM's own expertise is lacking. The following issues have been
identified:
*  Budget: Funding for in-service teacher training in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is
woefully inadequate by any measure. Of the $60,000 equivalent budgeted for in-service training
in 1995-96 (out of the $223 million public budget for education), only 25 percent was actually
executed. Financing for this essential educational input needs to be increased and executed.
*  Strategy and Planning: A new strategy for carrying out in-service teacher training needs to be
developed which focuses on a "cascade approach" in which "mentor teachers" or "mentor
schools" are used to deliver training at the school level. Once a new strategy has been identified,
mechanisms will need to be developed for planning and prioritizing training needs. In addition,
a mechanism should be found for providing schools with up-to-date information about new
developments in education. The eventual goal should be to expand the range of training
providers, as it is unlikely that the PIM will ever have adequate capacity to provide all required
in-service training.
*   Content: Recent in-service training initiatives have been overly short and superficial -- partly due
to the severely limited funding for these activities. Focus needs to be given to increasing and
monitoring the quality of training that is delivered and to making sure that training addresses
teaching methods as much, if not more than, subject content.



-9 -
2. THE RECOVERY OBJECTIVES FOR EDUCATION AND THE
BANK'S RESPONSE
2.1    Given the institutional weakness of the MOE, it will not be possible to address the broad range of
issues identified above all at once and in a well-coordinated and effective manner. Nor is it possible at
the present time for the MOE to develop a detailed, coherent and realistic strategy for addressing these
issues in the medium term. In fact, the development of such a strategy -- best carried out by the people
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia themselves as opposed to relying on drafting by external
consultants -- will entail a participatory process that will require several years and significant external
support. In the mean time, there are a number of initiatives that can be undertaken in the near term (a) to
help the MOE prepare its education strategy and related policy reforms, (b) to help the MOE improve its
capacity to manage public resources more efficienitly, and (c) to have an immediate impact on improving
the quality of education delivered in the system.
2.2    Development of a medium term strategy: The MOE is currently negotiating with
UNESCO/UNDP to fund a participatory process aimed at defining long range education goals and a
medium term strategy for achieving these goals. UNESCO staff have drafted an agenda and terms of
reference, aimed at dissemination of information and consensus building, and UNDP funding is currently
being considered for the undertaking. If this fundling does not materialize, alternative sources of finance
for this initiative will become a priority for the MOE and other interested donors.3 In addition to this
initiative, Japanese Trust Fund resources have been used by the Bank to finance background papers and
recommendations, as well as project proposals, in the areas of education finance, assessments and
curriculum, teacher training, textbooks and school mapping. These documents, which are currently
available, will provide a foundation for policy discussions and help expedite the development of detailed
sub-sector goals and strategies. The development of a long term strategy for education by December
1998 may be a formal conditionality under the Social Sectors Adjustment Credit (SSAC).
2.3   Improving management capacity and reforming institutions: Like development of a medium
term strategy for education, improving management capacity and reforming institutions in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's education sector is a medium to long term undertaking. But, a good
start can be made to achieving these goals over thie next two years. The initiative aimed at developing a
medium term strategy is itself a tool for improving planning, analysis and management skills within the
MOE. The initiative calls for creation of an Education Planning office in the MOE which will serve as
the institutional focal point for ensuring a more rigorous approach to public resource management. The
development of a school mapping data base and aL three year school rehabilitation program as preparation
for this project is an important indicator of the MOE's commitment to improving its management
capacity. In addition, donor investment activities in the field of curriculum development and teaching
methodology, reform of secondary technical and vocational education, student assessment, teacher
IDA financing for this initiative was rejected by the MOE based on UNDP/UNESCO's expressed intention to
provide financing and the Government's general desire to reduce to an absolute minimum the borrowing of
IDA funds to finance technical assistance.



-10-
training and textbook reform (the latter three to be supported by this project) all include significant
capacity building and institutional reform goals.
2.4   Improving the quality of education in the classroom now: Taking steps to begin improving the
quality of education delivered in the classroom in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia need not
be delayed until the MOE has developed an agreed medium term strategy and made significant strides in
improving its management capacity and reforming its institutions. The first priority in terms of having
an immediate impact in the classroom in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is to mobilize
investment resources to improve the learning environment in schools of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, particularly in high poverty areas where schools tend to be in the worst physical condition.
Improving the learning environment in schools of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the
main short term goal of this project. A second immediate priority is to continue and even accelerate the
process of improving the quality of educational inputs. The Pedagogical Institute of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, working closely with UNICEF, has already made significant progress in
updating primary school curricula grades 1-4 and introducing an interactive teaching methodology in
pilot primary schools. This success will need to be expanded, both in terms of reaching other grade
levels and in terms of making sure that other educational inputs such as teacher training, textbooks and
materials are updated to respond to the curricular and methodological reforms. Each of the capacity
building activities included in this project is also aimed at having a direct short term impact on
improving educational inputs in the schools.
2.5    The Bank's response to the above objectives is to respond quickly by devoting the largest portion
of its available investment resources to primary school rehabilitation, which is the MOE's highest
investment priority, and to devote a smaller share of resources to leveraging the support of other donors
aimed at capacity building, institutional development and improving the quality of educational inputs.
At the same time, through preparation and eventual supervision of the SSAC, the Bank will have a major
input into the development of the MOE's long term strategy. In addition to focusing on an overall
strategy, the following issues are currently being considered for conditionality in the context of the
SSAC: (a) reducing teaching and non-teaching staff in selected areas using the school mapping data base;
(b) reducing the university admissions quotas for non-fee paying teacher training candidates; (c)
increasing non-salary recurrent budgets for key areas such as in-service teacher training, curriculum
development and evaluating student performance; (d) re-organizing and reforming the Pedagogical
Institute of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia which is responsible for developing key
educational inputs; and (e) developing a three-year school rehabilitation investment program. The
Bank's approach puts a premium on close, continuous aid-coordination in order to co-ordinate policy and
strategy advice, as well as to utilize the comparative advantage of various donors in terms of field-based
staff, technical advice, training and funding.



3. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1    The project has three objectives: (a) to imlprove the learning environment in high poverty and
predominately rural areas through rehabilitating 50-56 primary schools; (b) to improve the quality of
educational inputs by facilitating teacher training reform and textbook reform; and (c) to strengthen the
MOE's capacity to carry out teacher training, student assessment and curriculum development.
A.    SCHOOL REHABILITATION
3.2    The project will finance the rehabilitation of 50-56 primary schools (US$ 10.6 million) located
exclusively in high poverty areas throughout the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; no new
construction will be financed under the project. Approximately 15,000 primary school pupils, or about 8
percent of total primary enrollment, is expected to benefit from the school rehabilitation component.
3.3    These 50-56 primary schools represent the first two year phase of a three-year school
rehabilitation program. The investment program has been developed on the basis of information
compiled in a newly developed school mapping data base. The data base includes information on the
physical status of schools, basic indicators such as student and teacher numbers and their specialty areas,
and demographic information.4 This information has allowed the MOE to assign a priority rehabilitation
status to each of its school facilities. The information shows that of the approximately 1,050 primary
school facilities in the system, about one quarter are in need of significant rehabilitation, and most of
those are in rural and high poverty areas. The standard of about 25 major primary school rehabilitation
projects per year is driven by both funding limitations -- a financing gap still exists for this component --
and the MOE's untested implementation capacity. The amount of funding for school rehabilitation under
the project is based on this realistic standard. If cofinancing is not forthcoming, the MOE will simply
not implement the second year of planned school rehabilitation, reducing project coverage to about 20
schools. Given the serious needs in terms of capital renewal, major capital investments should continue
in primary education well into the next century. Additional sources of external funding will be required
following this project for both primary and secondary education.
3.4    Schools to be financed under the project will be selected from the MOE's priority investment
program using the MOE's internal ranking system for physical status to establish priority. In addition,
the Bank has requested that the following general criteria be applied: (a) selection should be limited to
primary schools; (b) the schools must be in a state of serious physical deterioration which poses a threat
to effective learning as well as to the safety of children; (c) the schools must be in high poverty areas
(using school mapping criteria for poverty designation) and preferably in rural areas; (d) the schools
must not have declining enrollment over the past five years, and must be used at full capacity or be
overcrowded; and (e) no school should be located closer than four kilometers to another primary school
unless the potential for consolidation has been explicitly explored and communicated to the Bank. With
4   In addition to providing informnation with which to define physical rehabilitation priorities, the school mapping
data base is expected to be used to help the MOE plan and monitor its program to reduce teacher numbers.



- 12 -
regard to (e) above, the Bank will only approve schools which are located within four kilometers from
another primary schools on the basis of written justification. In the case of overcrowding, limited
extensions of classroom facilities will be accepted. A description of the methodology used in the MOE's
investment programming and for school selection under the project is attached in Appendix 3.
3.5    Rehabilitation costs are estimated at about $200 per square meter. The project will also finance
local works supervision services estimated to cost between 1-2 percent of the value of each civil works
contract. Damage assessments and, where needed, architectural designs have been financed by localities
and/or the MOE and will be financed under the proposed project only in exceptional cases. A
"Statement of Commitment for School Maintenance", signed by the head of the local Council of Parents
and witnessed by a representative from the MOE, will be required prior to final approval of each
individual school to benefit from project financing. The "Statement of Commitment for School
Maintenance" will make the local Council of Parents responsible for routine maintenance of facilities,
through monetary contributions or in kind support.
B.    TEXTBOOK PILOT
3.6    The project will finance a textbook production and financing pilot (US$ 0.7 million) aimed at, in
the short term, stimulating private sector publisher involvement in textbook market of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and, in the medium term, improving the pedagogic and physical
quality of books and controlling their costs.
3.7    The demand for new and better textbooks in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is at a
watershed. A new curriculum for elementary grade I was approved for introduction in schools
beginning in September 1996. This curriculum is more "child-centered" and focused on interactive
teaching techniques than was the previous one, but there are as yet no textbooks available to complement
this new approach to learning. New curricula for grades 2-4 have been drafted and it is expected that
these will be approved for use beginning in September 1997; new curricula for grades 5-8 are under
preparation and should be presented for approval during the 1997-98 school year.
3.8   It is clearly impractical to attempt to produce new textbooks for all primary levels and subjects
all at once, or even in the short term. Education authorities accept that the best strategy for meeting the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's textbook needs in the medium term is to invite competition
among publishers. There are quite a number of private sector publishers in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia which possess good basic publishing skills, but will require some training to help
them respond to the specialized needs of textbook publishing. Moreover, private sector publishers do
not have the capacity, at present, to develop a broad range of textbooks all at once -- and financial
resources are, in any case, not available to stimulate such a response among private publishers.
3.9    Given this situation, the MOE has decided to proceed as follows: the current "socially-owned"
publisher, Prosvetno Delo, a de-facto if not a legal monopoly enterprise, will attempt to produce new
textbooks which correspond to the new curricula for grades 1-2 during 1997. At the same time, the MOE
will launch a pilot designed to produce new textbooks for grade 3 for the 1998/99 school year. In
addition to stimulating private sector involvement in the textbook market, lessons are expected to be
learned from the pilot and applied to provision of further new textbooks for primary levels in subsequent
years.



- 13 -
3.10   Under the pilot, an independent Textbook Approval Board, appointed by the Minister of
Education, will be established to evaluate tenders for the production of two alternative language and two
alternative mathematics textbooks for grade three to be published in four languages of instruction used at
the primary level. Establishment of the Textbook Approval Board will be a condition of disbursement
for this component. Private publishers will receive small grants which will allow them to produce
textbook samples for evaluation and for eventual distribution and marketing to schools. Schools would
be given a choice between the alternative books, which would be distributed to students for a rental fee
established by the Textbook Approval Board. Receipts would be used to begin building a revolving fund
for the purchase of textbooks in subsequent years. Publishers would deliver books directly to schools on
the basis of contracts signed with the MOE. It is expected that, pending lessons learned during the pilot,
this system would be expanded and schools would begin to use their revolving funds to contract directly
with publishers for books.
3.1 1   Resources needed to carry out this pilot include, (a) the cost of the actual textbooks to be
procured (about $400,000 equivalent) and a small sum (about $20,000) with which to provide seed grants
to private publishers; (b) technical assistance to facilitate establishing the Textbook Approval Board,
organizing and evaluating the tender, establishing the revolving funds and rental schemes, and training
private sector publishers; and (c) study tours to neighboring countries to allow senior education officials
to examine ongoing textbook provision schemes. The IDA credit would finance only the actual cost of
the textbooks procured, and additional funding; in the amount of about $300,000 is expected to be
provided by the local Soros Foundation to provide technical assistance, training, seed grants and study
tours. A detailed description of this project component is available in the project files.
C.    TEACHIER TRAINING INITIATIVE
3.12   The project will support a teacher training initiative (US$0.7 million) aimed at helping the MOE
to begin introducing modern interactive teaching techniques in both pre-service and in-service teacher
training, as well as helping the MOE to reconsider the approaches and institutional arrangements
currently in use for both pre-service and in-service teacher training.
3.13   Authorities responsible for teacher training in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are
faced with much the same daunting challenge as described above for the textbook sector. New curricula
based on modern teaching methodology are rapidly being introduced, and the great majority of the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's over 13,000 primary school teachers have little or no
exposure to these new curriculum objectives and methods. Because teacher numbers will be declining
(although some new teachers will be hired), the obvious priority has been given to in-service training.
The Pedagogical Institute of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (PIM), which is responsible for
in-service training, cannot hope to begin to address current needs using its traditional approach of
organizing short-course seminars in which PIM and occasional education faculty staff (working as
consultants) deliver training directly to teachers. The PIM is, therefore, committed to expanding new
approaches that it has recently piloted with the help of UNICEF. These include a reliance on mentor
teachers, training of trainers and a systematic effort to decentralize teacher in-service training
responsibility.
3.14   The MOE has selected the development of a Teacher Resource Center, to be used jointly by a
Teaching Faculty and a district level PIM office, as the most appropriate vehicle for beginning to
implement a new strategy for delivering in-service teacher training in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. The project will finance developmnent of the Center to be located, tentatively, at the teaching



-14-
faculty in Bitola. The Center would be developed to facilitate the following goals: (a) to help
decentralize responsibility for in-service training and move it closer to schools and teachers; (b) to help
engender closer cooperation between the district PIM office and the Bitola Faculty of Education, which
would jointly use the facility; (c) to provide a facility for ongoing in-service training initiatives which
will be used on a full time basis to improve teacher skills; (d) to provide facilities for teacher trainers and
trainees from the Bitola teaching faculty to develop their skills; and (e) to provide existing teachers with
a facility for self-help. The IDA credit would be used to finance equipment, small works and
educational materials for the center.
3.15   In terms of institutional support and strategy development, the project will also support training
for a newly created Teacher Training Council. Training support will assist the Council to (a) identify
and prioritize training issues; (b) expose teacher training authorities in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia to the range of training mechanisms and styles available; (c) establish a career structure for
teachers; (d) formulate the roles, responsibilities and employment terms of school directors; (e) establish
criteria for teacher evaluation; and (f) establish a framework for monitoring and evaluating teacher
training projects. The establishment of the Teacher Training Council would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Technical assistance and both in-country and external training is expected to be financed
on a grant basis by the Government of Swizterland for both the teacher resource center and the Teacher
Training Council components. Detailed descriptions of these project components are available in the
project files.
D.    ASSESSMENT INITIATIVE
3.16   The project will support development of a capacity in the MOE to develop new education
standards and assess pupil learning at both the primary and secondary levels (US$ 0.5 million). The
medium term goal of this initiative is to ensure that, within 4-5 years, every eligible pupil in secondary
schools of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia can be given a new Matura examination at the
end of four year secondary schooling which is (a) carefully designed and constructed, (b) linked with
national standards and new curriculum objectives, and (c) composed of questions which ask for more
than recall of factual knowledge and which can demonstrate what pupils know, understand and can do.
In the process of achieving this goal, all methods and instruments for assessing pupil learning in schools
will be reviewed and improved, and a cadre of trained professionals will be formed to establish and
maintain the system. These professionals would be assigned to an Assessment Unit, located in the PIM,
the establishment of which -- in terms of staffing and budget allocation -- would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The Assessment Unit would work closely with district level PIM offices to develop and
implement their exams.
3.17   IDA funding for this initiative will be used to equip the Assessment Unit as well as participating
local PIM offices. Technical assistance and both in-country and external training support is expected to
be funded by the Government of the Netherlands in cooperation with a Dutch assessment agency, CITO,
and the National Examinations Centre in Ljubljana, Slovenia, where a new Matura examination was
successfully introduced in 1995. A detailed description of this project component is available in the
project files.
E.     PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
3.18   The project would provide financing in the amount of (US$ 0.1) to cover the incremental
recurrent costs of a Project Management Unit (PMU), which would primarily take responsibility for civil



- 15 -
works and equipment procurement and works supervision, as well as accounting and disbursement of
project funds. Funds would be used to cover staff salaries (for non-civil servants), a vehicle and minor
project operating costs. A number of capable engineering, management and support staff have already
been assigned to this unit. The PMU has been established in the new Investments Unit in the MOE and
the Head of Investments will act as PMU Director. The PMU may also manage funding from the
European Union in support of secondary education reform.
F.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
3.19   Project Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$12.6 million. No physical contingencies
or price contingencies have been included, given the expected short disbursement period of this project
and the fact that the project finances a slice oifthe MOE's ongoing school rehabilitation investment
program. The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million equivalent will finance 40 percent of total project
costs. Government financing of US$0.6 million will cover 6 percent of the school rehabilitation
component, including all taxes on IDA-financed contracts. Dutch, Swiss and Soros Foundation parallel
financing is expected to contribute to the capacity building components. The project is expected to
disburse over a 24 month implementation period, although most disbursements are expected to occur in
the first project year. Project costs are presented in Appendix 1.
3.20   Financing Plan. The project would be financed through a proposed IDA Credit of US$5.0
million equivalent and parallel financing from various donors, as shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: COST AND FINANCI[NG PLAN BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ '000)
IDA            Govern        Financing       Total
ment             Gap
Amount        %  Amount   %  Amount         %  Amount          %
1. Civil Works              4,004.0    38.5   603.2  5.8   5,792.8  55.7  10,400.0    83.2
2. Furniture and Equipment   330.0   100.0        -    -          -     -    330.0      2.6
3. Books and Educ. Materials    400.0   100.0     -    -          -     -    400.0      3.2
4. Tech. Assist. and Training  200.0    15.7      -    -   1,070.0  84.3   1,370.0    10.2
5. Recurrent Costs            70.0   70.0         -    -       30.0  30.0    100.0      0.8
Total                         5,004.0    40.0   603.2  4.8   6,892.8  55.1  12,600.0   100.0



- 16-
Table 3.2: COST BY COMPONENT BY YEAR
(US$ '000)
Totals
1997    1998    1999    Total
1. School Rehabilitation             800.0  7,320.0  2,480.0  10,600.0
2. Textbook Pilot                     63.0   347.0   290.0    700.0
3. Teacher Training Initiatives        80.0   380.0   240.0    700.0
4. Standards and Assessment Initiative  80.0   220.0   200.0    500.0
5. Project Implementation             39.0    40.0    21.0    100.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                   1,062.0  8,307.0  3,231.0  12,600.0



- 17 -
4. PROJECT RATIONALE
4.1    This section provides the overall economic justification and rationale for the project.
4.2    Linkage to Economic and Sector Work. There is consensus in economic literature, generally
accepted in the Bank, that investment in humaLn capital generates a positive economic return to both an
individual and to the society at large. A variety of research has shown what is intuitively evident: in a
country at the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's stage of development and transition,
investnent in improving the quality of learning inputs such as curriculum, textbooks and teachers has a
powerful impact on improving student achievement and earning potential. A growing number of studies
suggest that investment in school infrastructure also has a significant impact on student learning,
particularly if it is done in conjunction with qualitative improvements in other inputs to the education
system. Investment in severely damaged and unsafe schools, such as those found in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, has additional benefits in terms of targeting public resources on the poor and
averting a potential loss of life (the formerYugoslav Republic of Macedonia is located in an earthquake
zone).
4.3    The calculation of social and individual rates of return to education for the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia has not been deemed necessary for justification of this project for several
reasons: (a) comparable rate of return analysis exists for other countries at the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia's stage of development and transition; (b) such an analysis in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, at this time, would likely be highly unreliable given data constraints and
distorted incentives due to labor market distortions, the current quality problems in education and high
unemployment; and (c) the project is small, simple and, because it is focused on targeting high poverty
areas, well-justified on equity grounds. The social rate of return to education in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia -- particularly for primary and secondary education -- is likely to be significant
given its focus on broad societal values and other externalities, as well as labor productivity/income. It
is likely that a proper calculation of the individual returns to investing in primary and secondary
education is somewhat low due to the limited dispersion of wages in the country and high
unemployment. The limited wage dispersion can be attributed in large part to the public sector
dominated labor market that does not accord a significant wage premium to more skilled workers.
Improvements to the quality and relevance of education -- which are the objectives of this project -- and
the private sector led economic growth which is occurring, should jointly create an environment that will
increase the individual rates of return to education in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as
well as the social and economic benefit to society at large.
4.4    Linkage to CAS. The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy, (Report No. 14739-MK, dated
April 19, 1995), which was presented to the Board on May 16, 1995, includes the following strategies for
investment lending: (i) assuring adequate infrastructure for economic growth; (ii) supporting critical
adjustment and development efforts; and (iii) helping to mobilize resources from both official and
private sources. The Education Rehabilitation Project responds directly to these strategies. Adequate
primary schools -- particularly in high poverty areas -- are essential infrastructure for long term
economic growth and transition. Through a focus on educational quality, the project is also aimed at



- 18-
making the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's education system more responsive to the needs of
an emerging market economy. Finally, a high priority has been given in this project to mobilizing other
resources for education development and to aid coordination in general. The next CAS is likely to give
particular priority to the need for investing in human resource development in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia.
4.5    Public/Private Justification. In the future, as with most developed market economies, education
in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is likely to be financed and provided by a mix of public
and private institutions. Private schooling will eventually be needed to serve the diverse educational
needs of the population (particularly in secondary and higher education), to reduce public spending on
higher income students most likely to opt for private schools, and, potentially, for providing competition
for the services of the public school system. But, as in most developed market economies, a modern
public education system is likely to remain the main provider and financier of education in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. An efficient and responsive public education system in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will continue to be necessary in the long term given the negative
impact that a fully private education system would entail because of: (a) financial market imperfections
(inability of individuals to borrow against human capital); and (b) the inability of private providers to
capture the externalities (more civil society, greater social responsibility, and a more uniform and highly
educated population, higher labor productivity) generated by an educated work force for the country as a
whole. The private contribution to public education in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is
steadily increasing at pre-university levels, where parents pay for books and educational materials and
contribute to school maintenance and operations, and at higher education, where significant fees have
recently been established and where student contributions to boarding and educational inputs are
increasing.
4.6    Policy Environment. A description of the Government's policy reform efforts and the Bank's
strategy for supporting those efforts -- mainly through the SSAC -- were included in Section B. It should
be re-iterated that the Government is committed to the following medium term policy goals: (a) to
manage public resources for education more efficiently; (b) to improve the quality of education inputs,
including teachers; (c) to reform the overly specialized secondary education system and make it more
responsive to the emerging market economy; and (d) to involve private sector publishers in textbook
production.
4.7    Analysis of Alternatives. Several alternative project designs were considered: the first alternative
was no Bank support at all; Alternative 2 was to focus IDA funding for the project more heavily on
capacity building objectives; Alternative 3 was to increase the amount of Bank funding for the project;
Alternative 4 was to provide financing in support of secondary or higher education rehabilitation and
reform; and Alternative 5 was to focus IDA funding on capital investment and work closely with other
donors to build capacity in the sector:
Project Not Financed. Without the project, conditions in schools of the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia would continue to deteriorate at an accelerated pace and cohorts of students --
particularly those in rural and high poverty areas -- would continue their education in pedagogically
inappropriate and unsafe physical environments. It is unlikely that the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia's serious problem of a depleting capital stock would be addressed appropriately in the
medium term. On the fiscal side, without the project, the Government or beneficiaries would be
expected to incur higher recurrent costs over the continued life of the school and a higher capital cost
of rehabilitating an even more damaged school building in the future.



-19 -
*  Focus IDA Funding on Capacity Build'ing and Education Reform. Under this alternative, IDA
funds would be used to finance technical assistance and training in support of capacity building and
education reform objectives aimed at improving educational quality. This approach was rejected in
favor of identifying bilateral and NGO funding for capacity building for the following reasons: (i) a
number of bilaterals and NGOs, which have experience in capacity building projects in education,
expressed their desire to provide support; (ii) these bilaterals and NGOs can more easily establish
twinning arrangements with other institutions in their countries which can deliver capacity building
support -- technical assistance and training -- faster, more effectively and at less cost then would be
realized through Bank-funded technical assistance procurement; and (iii) the Government of
Macedonia is highly reluctant to borrow, even on IDA terms, for technical assistance when its capital
investment needs are largely unmet. The highest priority education reform issues are being
addressed in the context of the Social Sectors Adjustment Credit. Analysis and recommendations are
being provided through Japan Grant resources, and will continue as part of project supervision.
*  Increase the Amount of Bank Fundingfor the Project. Ideally, given capital replenishment needs,
the priority given to human resource development and the MOE's capacity to implement school
rehabilitation works, the Bank contribution to this operation should be on the order of $30 million
over five years. However, only $5 million in IDA funding is currently available for education over
the next three years, and the Government has decided not to borrow on IBRD terms, at the current
time, to support school reconstruction.
*  Provide Financing to Support Secondary and/or Highier Education. Although major investments
will eventually be needed in secondary and higher education, investment funding for these areas in
the current project was rejected because (a) the social and economic returns to primary education in a
country of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's development status are generally accepted
to be higher than those at secondary and higher education; (b) needed reforms in primary education -
- modern curriculum development, teacher training innovations, textbook reform -- are already well
underway, while changes to the structure and content of secondary and higher education will take
longer to develop a consensus and to implement; (c) the European Union has expressed interest in
leading the policy dialogue for secondary reforms and providing funding for investments in
secondary education; and (d) primary e(lucation, which provides the foundation of the education
system, is a logical place to begin a relationship with educational development in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, given that both implementation capacity and IDA funding is
limited. Policy advice, and conditionality, will be forthcoming for secondary and higher education in
the context of the Social Sectors Adjustment Credit and Japan Grant financing.
* Fund Primarily Capital Investment and Work Closely with other Donors on Capacity Building.
The benefits of this adopted approach are given elsewhere in this document (see Benefits section)
and will not be repeated here. Given the alternatives considered, the adopted approach is the best
way for the Bank to support the education system of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
over the next two years. Follow-up operations are likely, however, to be necessary, depending on the
outcomes and results of the current operation and the support the education sector in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia receives from other donors.
4.8    Cost-Benefits/Cost-Effectiveness. Specific cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis has not
been carried out for this project for the following reasons: (a) the benefits to improving the quality of
education in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- while intuitively obvious -- are difficult to



- 20 -
quantify in a best case scenario, and, in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, data are unreliable
or unavailable; (b) the cost of the resources and time needed to carry out such analysis is not deemed to
be worth the benefit of such an analysis, at this time, in terms ofjustifying the current project or
facilitating the Government's own decisions on resource allocation; and (c) the project is simple, low-
risk and unlikely to lead to major distortions or mistakes in resource allocation.
4.9    Fiscal Impact. The project would yield benefits in fiscal savings through (a) reduced recurrent
and investment costs as a result of rehabilitating schools now as opposed to later when schools are more
depreciated or collapsed, and (b) reduced recurrent costs from consolidating under-utilized schools as a
result of a reduction in the number of staff, equipment and maintenance expenditure. Fiscal savings from
the improvement in the learning environment (lower drop out and repetition rates) and improved access
to schools in under-served areas (future reduction in social assistance and other poverty related benefits),
which are difficult to quantify as a result of data limitations, have not been estimated. It should be noted,
however, that savings in recurrent cost deriving from the proposed project, may need to be used to
maintain or increase the overall Government capital and recurrent budget for school infrastructure, since
the current budget allocation for capital expenditure is inadequate.
4.10   Poverty Analysis. Initial results of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia poverty
assessment work finds -- intuitively -- that households headed by less educated individuals are more
likely to be poor relative to more educated household heads. Unless addressed, this aspect of poverty is
likely to persist in the future. Children of households with less educated parents are also less likely to be
enrolled in school. Rural household heads have completed far fewer years of education, and rural
children are less likely to be enrolled in school. By rehabilitating mainly rural schools in high poverty
areas and ensuring that all rehabilitated schools have adequate facilities, this project, in the context of the
overall education program, will improve the quality and, in some cases, the coverage of education in the
poorest communities in the country. In doing so, it will contribute to raising low education status in rural
areas and alleviate one of the fundamental causes of poverty in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia.
4.11   Institutional Capacity and Regulatory Framework. The commitment of the MOE to implement
the project is high as indicated by the assignment of a number of highly qualified managers and technical
staff from the MOE to the Project Management Unit. Technical staff have significant experience with
tendering and works supervision. The construction sector, extremely strong in the former Yugoslavia,
undoubtedly has sufficient capacity to undertake the volume of work envisioned under the project. The
regulatory capacity of the MOE's Investment Directorate is adequate and is being strengthened by the
availability of information produced by the school mapping data base.
4.12   Environmental Analysis. This project is in Category C. No asbestos or asbestos containing
materials would be purchased for use in the rehabilitation program.



- 21 -
5. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    As mentioned above, a small Project Management Unit (PMU) to support implementation of the
project has been established in the new Investment Unit with the Head of Investments as its Director. In
addition to the Director, it comprises three engineers and a bilingual accountant/secretary. It is likely
that the staff of the unit will be expanded somewhat when European Union financing for secondary
education becomes available. The staff of the PMU has benefited from training provided during project
preparation in the areas of procurement, project management, accounting and disbursements. This
support, provided by a project implementation specialist financed under the SSAC Japan Grant, will
continue during the first few crucial months of project implementation.
5.2   Primary School Rehabilitation. The primary responsibility of the PMU will be to organize the
tendering of civil works contracts and oversee implementation through contracting for works supervision
services. The PMU Director will work closely with a school rehabilitation working group, already
established in the MOE to undertake the school mapping data base and prepare the three year school
rehabilitation investment program. The school rehabilitation working group is charged with identifying
the approximately 20-25 school rehabilitation contracts that will be submitted for tendering in fall 1997;
with the remaining 25-30 rehabilitation contracts to be tendered in spring 1998. The 50-56 schools to be
financed under the project have already been tentatively identified, but a further prioritizing may have to
take place depending on the availability of co-financing for the investment program. Detailed damage
assessments and/or architectural designs have already been made available by municipalities and/or the
MOE for most schools to benefit from project financing. These designs have been assessed favorably by
an implementation consultant for the Bank, and will be reconfirmed through site visits to each school.
Additional designs will only be financed by the project if the existing documents are found to be of
insufficient quality. Procurement of supervision services by district will be carried out in tandem with
civil works procurement. A detailed implementation schedule for civil works procurement and
supervision is available in the project files.
5.3    Capacity Building Initiatives. Because IDA funding will be used to support various capital
costs of other donor technical assistance andi training initiatives, the PMU implementation responsibility
for these components is limited to procurement of various educational and office equipment, educational
materials, vehicles and small works. Similar equipment, materials and vehicles will be packaged
together in single tenders where possible. Detailed implementation arrangements for consultant support
and training provided by bilaterals and NGC)s can be found in the various project proposals for
textbooks, teacher training and assessments, which are available in the project files.



- 22 -
B.    PROCUREMENT
5.4   Procurement arrangements are summarized in the Table 5.1 and a procurement plan is attached
in Appendix 3. Project procurement will be carried out mainly through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) for works and National Shopping for (NS) for small equipment and vehicle contracts.
5.5    Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in Development Business.
The notice will include information about the nature of the goods, works and services to be procured
under the proposed project and invite interested and eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to
send their expression of interest to the MOE PMU. The GPN will also be re-published in the local press.
The GPN will be followed by specific advertisements in the local press for individual contracts where
necessary. Bidding documents will be sent to qualified suppliers who respond to the GPN and the
specific advertisements.
5.6    Works. All works contracts to be financed by IDA estimated not to exceed $800,000 equivalent
will be let using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, in accordance with the Region's
NCB documents for works dated July 1995. No single works contract is expected to exceed $800,000,
and the average contract is expected to be about $200,000. However, it is possible that 1-2 contracts for
large schools may approach the threshold of $800,000. The contracting industry was well established
throughout the former Yugoslavia, and this capacity remains in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. However, bidders from outside the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will not be
excluded from tendering for civil works contracts.
5.7    Goods. Contracts for equipment, materials and vehicles expected to be less than $200,000
equivalent but more than $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000
equivalent, will be let using International Shopping procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
National Shopping procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines, will be used for equipment,
materials and vehicle contracts expected to be less than $50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $300,000 equivalent. No single contract for office equipment, materials or vehicles will
exceed $200,000, and most should be considerably less. All contracts for the procurement of published
textbooks under the project will be let using National Competitive Bidding procedures, in accordance
with documents acceptable to the Bank. The average contract for published textbooks is expected to be
about $100,000. Direct Contracting (DC) may be used for proprietary items, for reasons of
compatibility and standardization, and in any other justified case, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $50,000. Any direct contracting to be financed by the IDA credit will need prior Bank approval.
5.8   Services. Services under the project -- mainly for the supervision of works -- will be procured
through a request for proposals from a short list of qualified firms/individuals under the provisions of
paragraph 3.7 (selection based on consultants' qualifications) of the consultants guidelines. The first
three consultant contracts will require prior review by the Bank. To keep the evaluation process
manageable, no more than six (but at least three) proposals will be invited to submit statements of
qualifications and experience. No works supervision contract is expected to be more than $10,000
equivalent. In the event that donor financing for capacity building technical assistance is not
forthcoming and IDA funding is used for these purposes, qualified firms will be invited to submit
proposals for comprehensive packages of consultant services and management of fellowships and
training in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrows" (January 1997).



- 23 -
5.9    Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents. Prior review will be required for the
first three works contracts awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and for all works
contracts estimated to exceed $400,000. Prior review will be required for all contracts awarded through
NCB for textbooks. Due to the necessity to ensure coordination with other donors for the goods and
services to be procured under this project, prior review will be required for the first three contracts
awarded through NCB for textbooks and for International (IS) and National Shopping (NS) for goods, as
well as for the first three contracts for consultant contracts for works supervision. All contracts
procured through Direct Contracting (DC) will require prior review.
Table 5.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Procurement methods (US$m) a!
Category of Expenditures    |NCB b/   IS/NS    Other        Total
Civil works                 ][0.4                           10.4
(4.0)                           (4.0)
Furniture & Equipment                 0.3                   0.3
(0.3)                 (0.3)
Textbooks                  0.4                              0.4
(0.4)                           (0.4)
Technical Assistance &                          1.4         1.4
Training                                        (0.2)       (0.2)
Recurrent Costs                                 0.1         0.1
(0.1)      (0.1)
Total Financing             10.8      0.3       1.5         12.6
(4.4)     (0.3)     (0.3)       (5.00)
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
IS - International Shopping
NS - National Shopping
a/     Figures in parentheses represent IDA financing.
b/    All civil works and school fumiture will be procured using national competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank; no single civil works contract is expected to exceed $0.8
million.



- 24 -
C.    DISBURSEMENTS
5.10   Disbursement categories and projected disbursements under the Credit are shown in Table 5.2.
The Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 24 months from the date of effectiveness,
scheduled for October 1997. In order to allow the MOE to take advantage of the summer construction
season in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, retroactive financing will be permitted up to the
limit of 1 0 percent of eligible project expenses incurred after May 31, 1997. Twenty percent of Credit
funds have been included in the unallocated category to afford the Government flexibility should other
donor financing not be forthcoming. However, most of these funds are expected to be used for civil
works. The closing date will be December 31, 1999.
Table 5.2: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES AND SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Category                   IDA         % of Expenditures to be Financed
1. Civil works             3.0         85% (net of taxes)
2. Equipment and Furniture   0.3       100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
3. Textbooks               0.4         100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
4. Technical Services      0.2         100%
5. Recurrent Costs         0.1         100%
6. Unallocated             1.0
TOTAL                5.00
5.11   Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, payments for agreed project
actions are to be made from a Special Account in US dollars in a Bank acceptable to IDA. The PMU
will be responsible for making payments from the Special Account The authorized allocation of the
Special Account will be US$ 1.0 million, representing about four months of estimated average
expenditures expected to be paid from the Special Account. The relatively high amount of the authorized
allocation is based on the Bank's recent experience with school rehabilitation in Bosnia and Herzegovina
and Albania where civil works contracting for school reconstruction was impeded by inadequate liquidity



- 25 -
in the Special Account. Replenishment applications would be forwarded to the Bank monthly and will
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate documents. For large contracts, the Bank
would make direct payments to suppliers.
5.12   Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for goods and civil works contracts of up to US$ 0.4 million. Detailed documents evidencing
expenditures would be maintained in a central location by the PMU for review by the required audit as
well as Bank supervision missions. Disbursement for contracts requiring the Bank's prior review would
be made against presentation to the Bank of full contract documentation.
D.    PROJECT AUDITS, ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING
5.13   Accounts. Auditable accounts would be established and maintained by the PMU for the project.
These accounts would include: (i) a record of withdrawals with copies of all disbursement requests and
underlying documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions under the Special Account and copies of the
bank statements pertaining to the account.
5.14   Audits. The project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. Audit statements would be prepared for the Special Account and for
Statements of Expenditures. All audit reports would be made available to the Bank within six months
after the end of each fiscal year. Project accounts would be maintained for one year after they have been
audited.
5.15   Reporting. The project PMU will prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly: a) progress reports
showing the status of implementation of the project, and b) financial reports in a format acceptable to the
Bank.
E.    SUPERVISION PLAN
5.16   Project implementation is expected to proceed rapidly. The Bank will provide intensive support
in the form of monthly missions to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia by the Task Manager,
located in Budapest, and a qualified implementation consultant during the crucial time period just prior
to and after project effectiveness. Following this initial intensive period of about three months,
supervision resources are expected to focus primarily on facilitating the capacity building components
and aid-coordination. The location of the Task Manager in the Budapest Human Resources Hub will
ensure intensive supervision of initial project implementation, and prompt feedback on matters requiring
a decision by the Bank. Given the straightforward nature of the project and the short implementation
period, no midterm review will be required.






- 27 -
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1    Benefits. Through improving the environment for leanling, the proposed project will have a
direct positive impact on the quality of education for about 15,000 children (about 6 percent of primary
enrollment) in high poverty areas of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In addition,
enrollment ratios for primary education are expected to increase in high poverty areas as school facilities
are improved. The project will also have a positive medium term impact on learning for all primary age
children in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia through improving teaching skills and teaching
methodology, improving the quality of textbooks and improving the quality of examinations, which
provide a standard toward which children and teachers work. In addition to the project's direct impact
on the quality of education delivered in the classroom, the project will help improve the capacity of the
MOE to improve the quality of education inputs, to develop and implement programs and to manage
public resources more efficiently. This latter benefit has already been partially achieved during project
preparation through development of a school mapping data base, In the long term, improving the quality
of education will stimulate economic growth through increasing the productivity and flexibility of the
work force. Lastly, the project will help the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia leverage additional
grant funding for education, and permit Worldc Bank staff to provide technical advice to the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia during supervision.
6.2    Risks. The risks attached to this investment are low. Dilapidated primary schools will be
rehabilitated in high poverty areas. The risk that these schools might not be adequately maintained will
be addressed by requiring that a contract is signed between the community and the central ministry in
which the community undertakes maintenance responsibility. There is a risk that the textbook pilot
financed by the project will fail to prove sustainable. However, if it does fail, a number of books will
have been delivered into the hands of students, and the MOE will have attained valuable information --
for a small price -- on how they wish to structure their textbook sector. Finally, there is a risk that
institutional changes and capacity development in the fields of teacher training, curriculum development
and students assessments will be slow in forthcoming. This risk has been partially addressed by
requiring a commitment, in terms of recurrent expenditure, to these activities under the SSAC, and by
making certain institutional changes conditions of effectiveness and/or disbursement under the Credit.
The focus on tight aid-coordination under the project also serves to reduce risk in terms of the
consistency of approach among the donor community. If progress is slow, the donor community will
have no alternative but to re-evaluate its approach and continue providing technical assistance and
training at the working level in the medium term.






- 29 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AN RECOMMENDATION
7.1    Agreements Reached. The following agreements and understandings were reached at project
negotiations: (a) a "Statement of Commitment for School Maintenance", giving local parent councils
responsibility for routine maintenance of facilities, through monetary contributions or in kind support,
will be signed by the local Council of Parents and witnessed by a representative for the MOE prior to
final approval of each individual school to benelFit from project financing (see para. 3.5); (b) as
conditions of effectiveness, the MOE will formally establish, through a Ministerial decree, the following
entities: an assessment unit, including a head and professional staff, and a Teacher Training Council,
comprised of representatives of teacher training institutions, the MOE and the Pedagogical Institute (see
paras. 3.15 and 3.16); (c) the establishment of a Textbook Approval Committee will be a condition of
disbursement for funds allocated to procuring published textbooks (see para. 3.10); and (d) the
Government agreed that if grant funding from other donors is not made available by March 31, 1998,
MOE and IDA will meet formally to discuss alternatives and agree on a course of action. Unallocated
IDA funds (20 percent of the overall credit) could be made available at that time to finance technical
assistance and training for the teacher training, textbooks and assessments components.
7.2    Recommendation. Subject to the above agreements and understandings, the proposed project
provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 3.6 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) to the
Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.






-31 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 4
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost and Disbursement Schedule
(1USS '000)
Project Cost Summary
Standards
Teacher      and        Project
School   Textbook  Training  Assessment Implemen
Rehab.      Pilot    Initiative   Initiative    tation   Total
L. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                        10,400.0         -          -           -          -  10,400.0
B. Furniture and Equipment                  -          -      200.0       100.0       30.0    330.0
C. Educational Materials                    -      400.0          -           -          -    400.0
D. Technical Assist. and Training       200.0      150.0      300.0       200.0          -    850.0
E. Training                                 -      120.0      200.0       200.0          -    520.0
Total Investment Costs                 10,600.0     670.0      700.0        500.0       30.0  12,500.0
I'. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs              -       30.0          -           -        70.0    100.0
Total Recurrent Costs                         -      30.0          -            -       70.0    100.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                     10,600.0     700.0      700.0       500.0       100.0  12,600.0
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                        200.0      550.0      500.0       400.0       30.0   1,680.0



- 32 -
APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 4
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs
Primary School Rehabilitation
(USS '000)
Total Costs
1997    1998    1999    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Primary School Rehabilitation   740.0  7,240.0  2,420.0  10,400.0
B. Works Supervision
Works Supervision                60.0    80.0    60.0    200.0
Total                               800.0  7,320.0  2,480.0  10,600.0
Textbook Pilot
(US$ '000)
Total Cost
1997  1998  1999   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Production and Financing Pilot Scheme
Purchase of Textbooks                     -  200.0  200.0   400.0
Technical Assistance                   30.0   75.0  45.0   150.0
Training and Study Tours               24.0   60.0   36.0   120.0
Total Investment Costs                    54.0  335.0  281.0   670.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs           9.0   12.0   9.0    30.0
Total Recurrent Costs                      9.0   12.0   9.0    30.0
Total                                      63.0  347.0  290.0   700.0



- 33-
APPENDIX 1
Page 3 of 4
FORMER YUGOSLAV RE:PUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs
Teacher Training Initiative
(US$ '000)
Total Cost
1997   1998   1999   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Teacher Resource Center Pilot
Technical Assistance              40.0  180.0   80.0    300.0
Training and Study Tours          40.0   80.0   80.0    200.0
Equipment                            -  120.0   80.0    200.0
Total                                 80.0  380.0  240.0    600.0
Assessment Initiative
(US$ '000)
Total Cost
1997   1998   1999   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Development of an Assessment
Capacity
Technical Assistance                     40.0   80.0   80.0    200.0
Training and Study Tours                 40.0   80.0   80.0    200.0
Equipment                                   -   60.0   40.0    100.0
Total                                        80.0  220.0  200.0    500.0



-34-
APPENDIX 1
Page 4 of 4
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Costs
Project Implementation
(US$ '000)
Total Cost
1997   1998   1999   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Implementation
Equipment                      18.0   12.0       -     30.0
Total Investment Costs             18.0   12.0      -      30.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Operating Costs   21.0   28.0   21.0      70.0
Total Recurrent Costs              21.0   28.0   21.0      70.0
Total                              39.0   40.0   21.0    100.0



- 35 -
APPENDIX 2
Page I of I
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
EDUCATION REHIABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective:                                                                                   (CAS Objective to Bank Mission):
Stimulate focus on Human        - SSAC conditionality agreed and   -to be monitored during SSAC  Human Resources Development is
Resources Development issues    implemented                      supervision                     one of the Bank's highest
_______ ______ ______ ______ _  ____ ______ ______ ___ _ _  priorities
Project Development: Objectives                                                                  (Development Objectives to CAS
- Improve learning environment    - primary enrollment rate      - Gross enrollment, currently   Objective)
and school safety               increasing, mostly in high poverty  around 92% to be monitored    - Govt. implementation of
- Improve quality of educational    areas. to near 100% gross over  yearly, gradual increase expected    conditionality under SSAC
inputs                          five years                       - qualitv of educational materials,   - impact of overall economic
- Strengthen capacity of        - improved quality of evaluated  for which a qualitative baseline  performance on scope for
Ministry of Education to manage   textbooks and learning materials    exists, to be evaluated by Bank or   recurrent budget and on incentives
public resources efficiently    - reduction in teacher numbers and  other donors annually        to continue education
reallocation of budget to       - budgetary reallocations and   - availability of follow up
educational inputs and training  student/teacher ratios to be   investments to finance
(precise numbers from SSAC)     monitored yearly by Bank        implementation of reforms
- use of school mapping data base   - school map and investment
to manage sector infrastructure  program expected to be
- functioning capacity for      functioning during first project
evaluating student performance  year
- new approach developed for in-   - student performance data to be
service teacher training        shared wvith the Bank yearly
- more focus on pedagogy and    beginning in year two
practice in pre-service teacher  - a new strategy for in-service
training                        training to be piloted
- more time allocated to pedagogy
and practice in the pre-service
curriculum
Project Outputs                                                                                  (Outputs to Development
- Rehabilitation and furnishing of   - 50-56 dilapidated and dangerous   -All schools to be rehabilitated by   Objectives)
50-56 dilapidated and dangerous    primary schools rehabilitated and    end of project year three  - provision of counterpart funding
primary schools in high poverty    furnished in high poverty areas  - New textbook system expected    by Govt.
areas                           - New system for production ancl   to be piloted by year two of  - limited capacity of MOE staff to
- new system for production and    financing of textbooks piloted  project                       management complex reform
financing of textbooks          - Standardized student assessment  -student evaluation capacity  activities simultaneously
- capacity to undertake         functioning                      expected to cover core primary  - efficient management of
standardized student assessment    - in-service training strategy  subjects by end of project year two  procurement for reconstruction
- new strategy for in-service   piloted                          - new teacher in-service training  and furniture contracts
teacher training                - school map developed and       strategy expected to be piloted by
- school mapping data base      functioning                      year two
- 3-vear school rehabilitation  - 3-year school rehabilitation   - school map and investment
program                         program revised yearly           program expected to be
functioning during first project
year
- student performance data to be
shared with the Bank yearly
beginning in year two
Project Components                                                                               (Components to Outputs)
-Primarv School Rehabilitation  Same as above                    Same as above                   Same as above
- Textbook Pilot
- Assessment Initiative
- Teacher Training Pilot                                      _



': ::



- 37 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 1 of 4
FORMER YUGOSLAV ]REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
School Rehabilitation Overview
Introduction
I.           During the 1996-97 school year, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia supported
1,046 public primary school facilities for its approximately 260,000 primary pupils. About 640 of these
facilities are comprehensive schools, meaning they cover grades 1-8, as well as increasingly, in urban
areas, kindergarten. Slightly less than half of these comprehensive schools are considered to be located,
by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia population density standards, in rural areas. The
remaining schools cover grades 1-4, and are predominantly located in rural areas. Nearly all rural areas
in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are considered high poverty areas for the purposes of this
project. Pupils are organized into 10,220 classes ('grades 1-4 are teacher specific and grades 5-8 are
subject specific). Nearly all schools in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are double shifted,
and some triple shifting exists both in rural and urban areas.
2.            Current Ministry of Education and Physical Culture (MOE) estimates are that
approximately 250 primary school facilities, of wlhich about 200 are in rural areas, currently suffer from
serious physical problems and/or structural faults which render them unsafe (the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia is in an earthquake zone) and serve to distract and demotivate students and
teachers. More than half of primary school facilities in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
were built before 1960, and nearly all of the 250 schools identified as having serious physical problems
fall in that category. In addition to structural faults which could cause schools to collapse in an
earthquake, most of these schools suffer from a range of physical problems including: inadequate
roofing, progressive foundation erosion, non-functioning sanitary facilities, lack of water and sanitary
facilities, inefficient and/or inadequate heating, inadequate lighting, and lack of adequate classroom
space.
Investment Program Ranking
3.           In order to begin to manage public school facilities more efficiently, a working group of
engineers in the MOE began preparation of a school mapping data base in early 1997 with support from
the SSAC Japan Grant. This data base is the first step in the MOE's efforts to develop a comprehensive
management information system. The short term objective of this project is, however, two fold: (a) to
prepare a three-year school rehabilitation investment program; and (b) to begin the process of
rationalizing school facilities in terms of the potential for consolidation.
4.            Significant progress was made during the first half of 1997 in terms of collecting
information on the physical status of schools, as well as on basic educational and demographic
information. This information has allowed the MOE to begin the process of ranking schools by a five
step level of priority for rehabilitation. The MOE's first level priority is given to schools with serious
structural faults which pose a threat to the safety of children. Within this category, enrollment numbers
and the degree of overcrowding is used to give further priority to schools. All schools to be financed



-38 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 2 of 4
under the proposed project fall into this first priority category. A second level of priority is given to
those schools which suffer from serious physical, but non-structural problems which hinder the learning
environment (see examples above). Schools in this category are also further prioritized by enrollment
numbers and the degree of overcrowding. A third level of priority has been given to schools with
physical problems which are not currently urgent but where these is a risk that physical quality could
begin to deteriorate. Levels four and five are allocated, respectively, to older schools (more than 20
years) which are relatively well-maintained and to schools that will not need significant investment for at
least ten years. A similar exercise has been carried out for schools at the secondary and pre-school
levels.
5.            As mentioned above, approximately 250 primary schools, or one quarter of primary
school facilities, currently fall into priority levels one and two in the MOE's ranking system. Although
the information is or will soon be available in the data base, the MOE does not currently use rural-urban
or poverty indicators as criteria for prioritizing schools for rehabilitation for its own purposes. However,
the data base does make two further important distinctions that have an impact on school ranking. One is
the case of low-capacity utilization, and the other is the case of schools located witlhin four kilometers of
another school (numbers for both these categories will be provided by negotiations). Schools which fall
into this category are being earmarked, and the MOE is committed to undertaking a serious analysis, as
part of the overall school mapping exercise, to consider the potential for consolidation and/or adoption of
multi-grade teaching techniques (which are already used in many rural schools). Because there are more
than enough level one and two schools, which do not fall into these low utilization and proximity
categories, to construct a realistic three-year primary school investment program, the rationalization of
the primary school network on these grounds is not an urgent issue, at this time, for defining investment
priorities. However, the MOE is aware that such efficiency issues are a high priority for the
Government, and will need to be addressed in order to justify both external and Government resources
for capital investments for education in the future. It should also be noted that the need to deliver
primary education in multiple languages and ethnic sensibilities in terms of community school facilities
are legitimate constraints to be addressed in the process of rationalizing Macedonia's school
infrastructure.
World Bank Selection Criteria
6.            Schools to be financed under the Education Rehabilitation Project will be selected from the
MOE's priority investment program using the MOE's internal ranking system to establish priority. In
addition, the Bank has requested that the following general criteria be applied: (a) selection should be
limited to primary schools in keeping with the overall project rationale; (b) the schools must be in a state of
serious physical deterioration which poses a threat to effective learning as well as to the safety of children
(levels I and 2 of the MOE ranking exercise); (c) the schools must be in high poverty areas and preferably
in rural areas; (d) the schools must not have declining enrollment over the past five years, and must be used
at full capacity or be overcrowded; and (e) no school should be located closer than four kilometers to
another primary school unless the potential for consolidation has been explicitly explored and
communicated to the Bank. The following points provide more detail on specific criteria:



- 39 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 3 of 4
*  With regard to (c) above, the Bank has worked withi the MOE and the Statistical Office of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which has recently participated in a World Bank-financed Poverty
Assessment, to define high poverty areas in the context of education. For purposes of this project, high
poverty areas are defined as all rural communities with populations of less than 10,000, and those
suburban or semi-urban communities in which more than 30 percent of adult residents are receiving
some form of social assistance payments.
*  With regard to (d) above, high priority has been given to addressing overcrowding problems --
including triple shifting -- which serve to reduce learning time and distract teachers and pupils from
learning. The need for double shifting in most schools and the MOE's standard for maximum class size
-- 30-35 students per class -- will be used as standards for rehabilitation designs. In the case of severe
and consistent overcrowding, limited extensions of classroom facilities will be accepted.
*  With regard to (e) above, the Bank will only finance schools which are located within four kilometers
from another primary schools on the basis of written justification which demonstrates the lack of
potential for consolidation.
7.            Applying the above criteria to its own ranking system, the MOE will identify 50-56 priority
schools to benefit from financing under the project. The Bank will verify the selection process and visit
schools on a sampling basis prior to final approval for financing.
Construction Standards
8.            Many older schools in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia do not comply with
Government building regulations concerning structural safety (particularly seismic protection). Most of
these schools also do not provide the appropriate physical environment for learning that are prescribed in
the current MOE standards for pre-university building facilities. The design and scope of rehabilitation
interventions in schools to be financed under the project would, therefore, incorporate the minimum
standards summarized below.
*  Structural Safety: All buildings to be rehabilitated will be structurally reinforced in order to comply
strictly with the latest provisions of the National Building Code, in particular, those that pertain to
the seismic resistance of the building structures.
*  Materials and Construction Methods: No asbestos materials will be used in the construction or
rehabilitation of the schools. In the process of rehabilitation, appropriate measures will be
introduced in the construction contracts concerning the safe removal and disposal, by the works
contractors, of any asbestos materials found in the buildings to be rehabilitated.
* Student Capacity: School facilities will be rehabilitated or, in limited cases, extended in such a
manner that the total school enrollment can be accommodated into two shifts. As a rule, classrooms
will be designed to seat 30-35 students. Kinclergarten classrooms should normally accommodate 20-
25 students. The average dimensions of these classrooms (i.e. square meters of floor area per
student) will be in accordance with the MOE's established norms of at least one and a half square
meters of space per child. A limited number of schools located in isolated/remote rural areas, where



- 40 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 4 of 4
students have to commute long distances in order to attend classes, may be rehabilitated to
accommodate only one shift. It is unlikely that small schools where multi-grade teaching is required,
will be justified under the program due to the Government's desire to reach the maximum number of
pupils with scarce investment resources. However, in such instances, rehabilitation designs would
take into account the size and number of classrooms needed for multi-grade teaching to occur.
Amenities: The amenities to be provided (if not available) and upgraded in the affected schools are
the following:
(i) Academic facilities:
- appropriate number of classrooms and general purpose common rooms
- faculty room and administrative space
- library with a small reading area
- some limited school furniture
(ii) Utilities/Other Features:
- sanitary facilities for students and teachers
- appropriate waste/sewage disposal
- drinking water
- heating: central heating units for larger schools; room/space heating units for smaller facilities
- electricity (also in remote rural areas if available)
- fire protection and emergency escapes
- access facilitated for disabled students
- security measures (as appropriate to protect loss of property)
Exclusions from Project Financing:
9.     The following types of interventions will not be included for financing under the project:
- rehabilitation of student boarding areas
- rehabilitation of school auditoriums for large congregations/cultural activities
- rehabilitation of vocational/industrial workshops
- provision of pedagogical equipment (e.g. laboratory/office equipment)
- installation/rehabilitation of air-conditioning systems
- installation of telephone/telecommunication systems
Rehabilitation Costs:
10.    Rehabilitation costs were based on a unit cost of US$200 per square meter of building area to be
repaired. Thus the total rehabilitation cost of a damaged school is equal to the gross existing floor area
of the school (aggregate areas of all floor levels), multiplied by the unit rehabilitation cost. Extensions of
facilities were based on a unit construction cost of about $350 per square meter. No new construction
will be financed under the project.



- 41 -
APPENDIX 4
Page 1 of 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Procurement Plan
Expenditure Category     Total Cost    Likely      Pre-qual./    Contract     Workl       All Work/
US$      Procureme   Invitation      Awards      Delivery     Delivery
million    nt Methods    to Bid                     Begins     Complete
CIVIL WORKS
Rehabilitation of Schools    4.0       NCB          8-9/97       10-11/97     10-11/97     4-6/98
(estimated 20 contracts)
GOODS AND
EQUIPMENT
Office Equipment           0.2         IS/NS        11/97        12/97        01/98        03/98
(estimated 2 contracts)
Educational Materials     0.1          IS/NS        11/97        01/97        02/97        34/98
(estimated 2 contracts)
Textbook publishing        0.4         NCB          2/98         5/98         6/98         9/98
(estimated 4 contracts)
Vehicles                   0.05        IS/NS        7/97         9/97         10/97        11/97
(estimated I contract)
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
Works Supervision         0.2          CQ           9/97         10/97        10/97        11/98
(Implementation)
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries/supplies,/vehicle  0.05       N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A
operation and maintenance






MAP (][BRD 28957)






IBRD 28957
F  . REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                   /                                     FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
FE. REP, OF YUGOSLAVIA  <-  'A:!..............!.\(y........          
(S                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MACEDONIA
IA/MONTENEGRO)                                                        : .. :                                                                                        EDUCATION REHABILITATION
ySf A/MONTENEGRO) e t Pnds I< X                                   + PROJECT
,r,S>FJ7-/iSt4,    t \4  49   -s  |                    Polrnks>P0whewc                      \ > ~~B U L G  A  R I A
Kocan~,                                         Pdonk       ~      hoKumULGARI
1/-t-  t   A; I,at>.4N,;&  $   ]dXm  <   Kumonovo                                                                                       .       Major cities
V i t5r-il);- vp IX P; JV ronc      Bloc \IR)                                                   A J,                                                                              Selected cities
'  )                  Rodvee -                XJ(             SSg;2                                  s                17J4~P'-B'i-akos                                          National Capital
jTetov                                                                                                          leo mR~
A                                                                                                       \,                                                                Primary roads
V./I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y                                            _____         Secondary roads
/ JA  Gestivo,    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-+I--  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Electrified railroads
0                                   K -eo c                      Ti :0.                         Sip                                                                               __v_       Other raiilroads
Pei <ei    Vilo i                                                       OVTO                                     Rodo_(  o t U:7ts                                                                   So  eleva T IA    r~tion  in meters
A   es~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
|1\ % $(} > 4 2010:n Bi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rolol  isX/                                                                                                                Spt, eleain in; GmREECE \teW:  Gr  s
'.   ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Rivers
17-0                                                      i - - - -    International 6oundaries
Deixip                                                          C' /             0/        Slru~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mica
Kovodorci       9                                                                         U         1'       30 KiLOMETERS
al-14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~0                                                      1                RU~OMILES
f O)                                                                                                                t     ,     -              p;gV\__K n a .   ,," '  -UGRA 0i
S                                                                               .-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pi         .. l
v   |   Prespa   ,   rOr  -  ~~~~~~~  _/  jThessaloniki '* ''avu:Ay:ai; % '.g t ...................  s <~~~~~~~~~~D.. ......
AL  BANIA,brorzh      4.                    ,(< ?  <GOY-7.r._                                           ,E                   'U      5S1   . sAIoAi  -              'h,p .O    O IO                   R   Mff,pr?z,U,  dUU U.
9~~~~                                                                           ~~~ _                                             S        ___________|__'_ t': <     -48>         <y 
(\Q ~                                                                                                                                                                 OVAK RE'. (' "-.   UKRA INI E D  TI
x                                                                                         AUSTRIA  s                 -I
121, Bitl( I                                                                                                                                   HUGAR
s  '.A  '                                                                                                        ---o4~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CROATIA    ' RANA I
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
HE ZEOVINIRAD FED. REP ~
1. ':  OF
I                                                                                                                     ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ YUGOSLAVIAA. ''
''-"--i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ki                                                                                                  3.   (SERB /MONT.)
LokV                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    /    RUGARIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BL LARI
P-RPV                                                                                                '>*Th,essaloniki                          sc~ t
ALBANIA               0                                                  -v                                                      r'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  AERANIA 2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABAI
'2                                          I~~~~~~~~~~4 ~~~GREECE     U
-                         ,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"          Tber~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oafooo I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*  S                                      -   -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-; ~ ~ ~ A GUTi  9









IMAGING
Report No.:          I sees   M
Type:      SAR



