Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2982 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Rehabilitation Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (THE BORROWER)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (THE ASSOCIATION)
Dated October 6, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2982 MK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from donor sources a grant or grants in 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,900,000 to assist in financing part of the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement or agreements (the Grant 
Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and donors; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the Association 
determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were  engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Council of Parents” means the parent council of a school to be 
rehabilitated under Part A of the Project established pursuant to the Law on Primary 
Education published in the Official Gazette 44/95, Article 102;
(b)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Physical Culture;
(c)
“Pedagogical Institute” means the pedagogical institute established 
pursuant to  the Law on State Administration published in the Official Gazette 40/90, 
Article 125;
(d)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within MOE for the 
purposes of the Project and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(e)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
“Statement of Commitment for Maintenance” means a maintenance commitment 
undertaken by the Council of Parents for schools under Part A of the Project and 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Student Assessment and Examination Unit” means the assessment unit to be 
established in MOE and referred to in Section 6.01 (a) and paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
Page  3
(h)
“Teacher Training Council” means the teacher training council to be 
established in MOE and referred to in Section 6.01 (b) and paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and
(i)
“Textbook Approval Board” means the textbook approval board within MOE to 
be appointed by the Minister of Education and Physical Culture and referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars in its Central Bank a special deposit account in Dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 2008 and ending August 1, 2032.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2017 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
 the Grant Agreements shall have failed to become effective by March 31, 
1998, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
Page  6
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring 
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the events specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a) 
a Student Assessment and Examination Unit shall have been established 
within MOE and the head of such unit and additional professional staff appointed with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b)
a Teacher Training Council shall have been established within MOE 
comprising representatives of teacher training institutions, MOE and the Pedagogical 
Institute with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Telex:
51 119
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE BORROWER
By /s/ Ljubica Z. Acevska
Authorized Representative
THE ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit
     % of
 Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
 in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
2,200,000
85%
(2)
Equipment
  220,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) 
and 85% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(3)
Textbooks
 290,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 85% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally
(4)
Consultants'
145,000
100%
services under
Part A of the
Page  8
Project
(5)
Incremental operating
 75,000
100%
costs under Part E of
the Project
(6)
Unallocated
670,000
TOTAL
     3,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means operating costs which would 
not have been incurred absent the Project and include, inter alia, costs with respect 
to office supplies, vehicle operation, communication, travel, consultants’ fees (but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service) and operating 
expenses incurred for the purposes of Project management and implementation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000, may 
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 
31, 1997; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3), until the Textbook 
Approval Board has been established with staffing and terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $400,000 equivalent; (ii) for consultants’ services not 
exceeding $100,000 for consulting firms and $50,000 for individual consultants; and 
(iii) for incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the learning environment in 
high poverty and predominantly rural areas in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) 
improve the quality of educational inputs; and (iii) strengthen the MOE’s capacity to 
carry out teacher training, student assessment and curriculum development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
School Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of about 56 primary schools, selected by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association and located in high poverty areas through the carrying 
out of civil works and the provision of related supervision services.
Part B:
Textbook Pilot
1.
Acquisition of textbooks in line with the curricula for Grade 3 for the 1998/99 
school year.
Page  9
2.
Provision of technical assistance to support the establishment and operations of 
the Textbook Approval Board and the establishment of a rental scheme for textbooks.
3.
Provision of training to private sector publishers and carrying out of study 
tours for senior staff of MOE to examine textbook production and financing schemes in 
neighboring countries.
Part C:
Teacher Training Initiative
1.
Establishment and development of a pilot Teacher Resource Center through the 
provision of small civil works, educational materials and equipment, technical 
assistance and training.
2.
Provision of technical assistance, training and study tours abroad for the 
development of the Teacher Training Council.
Part D:
Learning Assessment Initiative
Provision of technical assistance, training, study tours abroad, materials and 
equipment for the development and establishment of an improved learning assessment and 
examinations capacity within MOE.
Part E:
Project Implementation
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and vehicles to the PMU for 
management, coordination and monitoring of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
1.
Works estimated to cost less than $800,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Textbooks estimated to cost less than an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  10
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $50,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a) 
With respect to (i) the first three (3) contracts for works awarded in 
accordance with Part B.1; (ii) the first three contracts for textbooks awarded in 
accordance with B.2 of Section I of Schedule 4; and (iii) each contract for goods and 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first three (3) contracts for goods awarded in 
accordance with Part B.4 of Section 1 of Schedule 4; (ii) the first three (3) 
contracts for goods awarded in accordance with Part B.3 of Section 1 of Schedule 4; 
and (iii) each contract for goods awarded in accordance with paragraph B.4 of Section 
I of Schedule 4, the following procedures shall apply:
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(iii)  in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) 
and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  11
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for supervision of civil works under Part A of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first three (3) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU is maintained at all times with staffing, 
functions, and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall at all times maintain within MOE: (a)  the Student Assessment 
and Examination Unit; and (b) a Teacher Training Council, with staffing, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall at all times maintain the Textbook Approval Board within MOE 
with staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall, through MOE, obtain from the Council of Parents of each 
school to be rehabilitated under Part A of the Project, a Statement of Commitment for 
Maintenance providing for each Council of Parents to undertake responsibility for the 
maintenance of the rehabilitated school facilities.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
Page  12
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(c)
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall 
be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Page  13
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
