CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 685 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Singrauli Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated April 1, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)
and NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED (hereinafter
called NTPC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred and fifty million dollars
($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NTPC
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to NTPC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NTPC in accordance with the provisions of Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS NTPC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NTPC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist NTPC in the design of and
preparation of specifications for the construction of the facili-
ties forming Parts A and B of the Project, NTPC shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist NTPC in the design, prepara-
tion of specifications and supervision of construction of the 400
kV transmission lines included in Part C of the Project, NTPC
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) NTPC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and


﻿delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by NTPC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, NTPC shall
cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) NTPC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) NTPC shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provisions of para-
graph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) NTPC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of NTPC and any relevant records and documents.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. NTPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NTPC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) NTPC shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters related
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) NTPC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by NTPC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. NTPC shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall fur-
nish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in re-
spect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
NTPC shall sell to SEBs the entire output of power from the three
generating units to be constructed under the Project as delivered
at agreed bulk supply points under bulk supply contracts satisfac-
tory to the Association.


﻿-6-
Section 2.11. NTPC shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that the execution and operation of the Project are carried out
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors and will
comply with environmental quality standards prescribed by the
Borrower's National Committee on Environmental Planning.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NTPC
Section 3.01. NTPC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound business,
financial, administrative and engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) NTPC shall at all times maintain its cor-
porate existence and the right to carry on its operations and to
acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain and renew
all interests in land and other properties, and take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(b) NTPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering
practice.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NTPC
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets required for the efficient operation of its
business and undertaking.


﻿- 8 -
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NTPC
shall not alter its corporate structure or amend its by-laws in
any way that will materially and adversely affect its ability to
perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.03. NTPC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 9 -
ARTIOLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. NTPC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. NTPC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses,
sources and application of funds statements and related statements)
fcr each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
4.ng principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than seven months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited, and (B) a certified copy of the
auditors' report; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
NTPC and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Association and NTPC, NTPC shall set tariffs and conduct its
operations and affairs in such manner as to achieve in the fiscal
year beginning April 1, 1987 and maintain thereafter an annual
rate of return of not less than nine and one-half per cent (9-1/2%).


﻿- 10 -
(b) NTPC shall set its tariffs from the time of the commis-
sioning of the first unit to be constructed under the Project
until the fiscal year starting April 1, 1987 at levels not lower
than those estimated to be required to achieve a 9-1/2% annual
rate of return using the full planned capacity of the Singrauli
Station.
(c) For the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the annual rate of return for any financial year shall
be calculated by expressing the operating income for the respective
financial year as a percentage of the average of the capital base
at the beginning and end of such financial year. For the purposes
of the foregoing:
(i) "operating income" means total operating revenues
from the sale of electricity and from other services
incidental thereto; less all administration,
operating and maintenance expenses, adequate
provision for depreciation, and taxes (including
income taxes), but excluding interest and other
charges on debt; and
(ii) "capital base" means the sum of (A) the gross
book value of fixed assets in operation, and (B)
the cost of intangible assets, less the amount
of accumulated accrued depreciation.
For the purposes of (i) and (ii) above, "depreciation" shall be
calculated using the straight-line method on the value of depre-
ciable fixed assets in service.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.04. In the event that NTPC acquires any asset
valued at Rs50 crores or more, NTPC shall promptly inform the
Association.


﻿12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NTPC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in ac-
cordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NTPC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For NTPC:
National Thermal Power Corporation
Limited
312, Kailash, 26 Kasturba Gandhi Marg
New Delhi - 110001
India
Cable address:
THERMPOWER
New Delhi


﻿- 14
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NTPC may be taken or executed by its Man-
aging Director or such other person or persons as NTPC shall de-
signate in writing.
Section 6.03. NTPC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of NTPC, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by NTPC pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agree-
ment.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
LIMITED
By /s/ Kewal Singh
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be procured in ac-
cordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to NTPC of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 17 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of NTPC and the Association that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 18 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods of-
fered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further con-
parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid;
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, NTPC shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 19 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, NTPC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
NTPC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the


﻿- 20 -
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform NTPC and state the reasons for such
determination.


