CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 685 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Singrauli Thermal Power Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 1, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 1977, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
This Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Project will be carried out by the National Thermal
Power Corporation Limited (hereinafter called NTPC) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to NTPC the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NTPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NTPC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NTPC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;


﻿(c) "Electricity (Supply) Act" means the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, of the Borrower, as amended;
(d) "Memorandum and Articles" means the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of NTPC dated November 7, 1975, as amended;
(e) "SEB" means a State Electricity Board established Dur-
suant to the Electricity (Supply) Act and includes the Delhi Elec-
tricitv Supply Undertaking; and
(f) "CEA" means the Borrower's Central Electricity Authority
established pursuant to Section 3 of the Electricity (Supplv) Act.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall -ay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the princinal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the princinal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1987, and ending November 1, 2026,
each installment to and including the installment payable on Novem-
ber 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause NTPC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable NTPC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its agencies
or any agency of any such political subdivisions to take any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to NTPC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NTPC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, which shall, inter
alia, provide that NTPC shall: (i) pay to the Borrower interest
at the effective rate of ten and one-quarter per cent (10-1/4%)
per annum on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn by
NTPC and outstanding from time to time; and (ii) repay to the
Borrower the principal amount so relent over a period of twenty
years from the date of this Agreement, including therein a period
of grace of five years.


﻿(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to NTPC will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements promptly to provide NTPC or
cause NTPC to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
Section 3.03. When, with respect to any contract for goods
to be procured under Section 2.04 of the 'Project Agreement, the
lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group C (as defined in para-
graph B.2 (b) (3) of the Schedule to the Project A-reement), the
Borrower shall immediately grant permission to import the goods
covered by the contract, and no review of such permission to
import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies.
When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid is
a bid from group A or group B (as defined in paragraphs B.2 (b)
(1) and (2) of the Schedule to the Project Agreement), the Bor-
rower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate appli-
cations, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as
shall be required to implement the contract; (ii) make available,


﻿-8-
or cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all foreign
exchange which shall be required therefor; and (iii) with respect
to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly
and in such quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such steps as
shall be necessary to make available adequate coal supplies for
the efficient operation of the Project by the time the first
generating unit under the Project shall have been commissioned.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all such steps within
the power available to it as shall be necessary to obtain from
selected SEBs not later than September 30, 1977, or such other
date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, undertakings
satisfactory to the Association and endorsed by the State in which
any such SEB is located, to purchase in the aggregate not less
than 85% of the output of power from the three generating units
to be constructed under the Project at agreed bulk supply points.
Section 4.02. (a) In order to assist CEA in carrying out
a detailed study of the future interconnected 400 kV transmission
system, the Borrower shall cause CEA to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall establish a committee not later
than March 31, 1977 to set standard design parameters for all
components of the 400 kV transmission system to be constructed
in India.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NTPC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NTPC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(c) NTPC or the Borrower, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of NTPC or for the suspension of its oDerations;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Memorandum and
Articles without the Association's consent which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operation of NTPC;
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acauired or taken over by NTPC without the Association's con-
sent, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would materially
and adversely affect the conduct of the NTPC's business or the
NTPC's financial situation or the efficiency of the NTPC's manage-
ment and personnel or the carrying out of the Project; and


﻿- 11 -
(f) a default shall have occurred in the performance by the
Borrower or by NTPC of any of its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (d), (e)
and (f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and NTPC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of NTPC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
action; and
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and NTPC, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by NTPC, and is legally binding upon NTPC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and NTPC, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and NTPC in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 13 -
Section 6.03. The date June 30, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or a date twenty-five
years after date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Sec-
retary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By Is/ Kewal Singh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Turbogenerators and        4,000,ooo
associated equipment                    )
(2) Boiler plant and           58,000,000    )    100% of foreign
associated equip-                       )    expenditures or
ment, including                         )    100% of local
circulating water                       )    expenditures
pumps, piping and                       )    (ex-factory)
valves                                  )
(3) Instrumentation and         6,000,000    )
controls                                )
(4) Coal handling plant,       18,000,000    )
wagon loading/unloading                 )
equipment, power trans-                 )
formers and associated                  )
equipment, extra-high                   )
voltage breakers and                    )
associated equipment,                   )
and auxiliary 6.6 kV                    )
switchgear.


﻿- 17 -
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Transmission system        20,000,000    )
equipment
(6) Consultants' ser-           1,000,000    )    100% of foreign
vices                                   )    expenditures and
)    100% of local
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                 7,000,000    )
TOTAL     150,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 18 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, re-
duce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expendi-
tures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 19 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Singrauli Thermal Power Devel-
opment located on the fringe of the Rihand Reservoir close to the
Singrauli coal field deposits in the State of Uttar Pradesh and
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Acquisition of land, and civil works comprising con-
struction of roads, culverts, railway and other
miscellaneous preliminary works, power station and
residential buildings, plant foundations, dam, canals,
ducts and other works associated with the circulating
water system.
Part B:   Installation of three 200 MW turbo-generating units
and. three boilers rated at about 680 tonnes/hour capa-
city each, complete with all auxiliaries and ancillary
electrical and mechanical equipment including coal
transportation and handling equipment and the switchyard.
Part C:   Installation and construction of a 400 kV transmission
system comprising two single circuit lines, each about
30 km in length, from Singrauli to Obra, and a single
circuit line, about 400 km in length, from Obra to
Kanpur together with associated equipment.
*              *             e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


