Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16185
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3157-CO)
December 20, 1996
Infrastructure Division
Department In
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col $)
(June each year)
1990 - 497,32
1991 - 623,67
1992 - 677,17
1993 - 784,49
1994 - 831,16
1995 - 874,52
1996 - 1,069.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGR           Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic
CONPES        National Council for Economic and Social Policy
CORPES        Regional Planning Councils
DNP           National Planning Department
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
RCF           Roads Cofinancing Fund (under FINDETER)
FINDETER   National Fund for Territorial Development
FNCV          National Rural Roads Fund
GOC           Govermnent of Colombia
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB           Interamerican Development Bank
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
INDERENA   National Institute of Renewable Resources
INVIAS        National Institute of Highways
MOPT          Ministry of Public Works and Transport (up to 1993)
MOT           Ministry of Transport (from 1993 onward)
NPV           Net Present Value
PNR           National Rehabilitation Program
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SPWs          Secretariats of Public Works (Departmental)
UDECOs        Department's Cofinancing Offices
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Director:     Paul Isenman, LA3DR
Division Chief: Peter Ludwig, LA31N
Task Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen, LA3IN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................1
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..........................................7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .....9.....................................9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..........................................                                                                                    10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................................                                                                                13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..........................................                                                                               14
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS ..........................................                                                                                   15
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..........................................                                                                                 17
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..........................................                                                                              21
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..........................................                                                                       21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................                                                                   22
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................................                                                                            23
Table 4: Loan Disbursement ..........................................                                                                            23
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................................                                                    24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..........................................                                                         25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..........................................                                                                  25
Table 8A: Project Costs (1) ..........................................                                                                           26
Table 8B: Project Financing(l) ..........................................                                                                        26
Table 9: Economic Cost and Benefits ..........................................                                                                   27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                                                   28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements ..........................................                                                      31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                                                                31
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions ..........................................                                                                     32
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire ..........................................                                                         34
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ..........................................                                                        61
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 3157-CO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Rural Roads Sector Project in
Colombia, for which Loan 3157-CO in the amount of US$55 million equivalent was approved on January
16, 1990 and made effective on June 6, 1990.
The original closing date was December 31, 1995. The loan was 99.97% disbursed, and the last
disbursement took place on May 9, 1996, without extension of the closing date. Undisbursed funds in the
amount of US$13,865.71 equivalent were canceled on May 9, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Jose Luis Irigoyen (LA31N) and German Ospina (Consultant),
and reviewed by Messrs. Peter Ludwig (Division Chief, LA3IN) and Robert Crown (Project Adviser,
LA3DR) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in November 1995.
It is based on material in the project file and discussions with the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by conducting an ex-post evaluation of a sample of road subprojects financed under
the loan, preparing an operational plan, and providing statistical data and a retrospective assessment of the
project.



I



EVALUATION SUMMARY
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN 3157-CO
COLOMBIA
Introduction
The project followed two previous successful operations (Loans 1966-CO and 2668-CO) in the rural road
subsector in Colombia.
Project objectives
The main goal of the project was to contribute towards achieving the country's economic and social goals
(expand markets and reduce poverty in rural areas) by: (a) helping classify the road network and define
functions and responsibilities of national, regional and local (municipal) authorities, and develop,
strengthen and organize accordingly their institutional capacity for managing rural roads activities; (b)
ensuring over a realistic time frame, satisfactory implementation of key policies in the roads sector; (c)
consolidating positive institution-building advances in road management initiated by FNCV under the Rural
Transport Sector Project (Loan 2668-CO) and during preparation of this project, especially in
programming and supervision of civil works, strengthening of FNCV's Regional Offices and organizing the
maintenance activities; and (d) contributing to financing a balanced four-year investment and maintenance
programs (para. 1).
Implementation experience and results
The consolidation of the institutional advances within FNCV progressed satisfactorily until 1993, including
the strengthning of its Regional Offices. However, this consolidation was later offset by the liquidation of
FNCV mandated by the drastic decentralization agenda followed by the Government upon the approval of
the 1991 Constitution. The liquidation of FNCV entailed retrenching about 1,600 staff and closing 15 out
of the 24 Regional Offices. In spite of the disruptions created by the retrenchment program, FNCV
substantially accomplished the objective of completing a four-year investment and maintenance program,
with the exception of routine maintenance. The sector policy objectives, including a cofinancing system
with municipalities and road funding strategies, were largely achieved, or are expected to be achieved once
Government completes the implementation of its decentralization policies. The study on funding strategies
made a valuable contribution highlighting the existing imbalances between responsibilities, capacity and
financial resources, an aspect probably overlooked initially by the reform but that now is gaining support
among the sector authorities. The road classification and inventory completed early in the project became a
key instrument during implementation of the sector reforms, first defining responsibilities among the three
levels of government, and later, supporting the transfer of secondary and rural roads to the departments.
(paras 15 - 17).



- ii -
With project funds, FNCV achieved the following physical targets: (a) construction of about 776 km of
rural roads (or about 97% of the target planned at appraisal); (b) improvements on about 1053 km of roads
(or about 81% of the target); (c) construction of about 1,134 meters of small bridges (or about 101% of the
target); and (d) periodic maintenance on about 1,239 km of roads (or 55% of the initial target). The
shortfall in periodic maintenance is compensated by a greater achievement under FNCV's 1988-1993
Investment and Maintenance Plan (which more than double the periodic maintenance target). The works,
however, were completed one year behind the initial schedule (paras. 17 - 18).
Several external factors had significant impact on project execution. The most critical included: (1) new
economnic and social policies that shifted priorities from the past focus on rural development and poverty
alleviation to the opening up of the economy and modernization of the state, (2) institutional reforms in the
sector that brought major changes to the road sector and defined new goals for the decentralization agenda,
(3) the liquidation of FNCV, as part of these reforms, that progressively weakened FNCV, (4) delays in
implementing the new cofinancing system that added uncertainty to the devolution of roads and left part of
the road network unattended, and (5) the introduction of new environmental policies and regulations that
slowed down the execution of several road subprojects (paras. 21 - 28).
Bank Performance
Project preparation benefited from the previous experience with FNCV, as the same Bank team supervising
the then on-going Rural Transport Sector Project (Ln. 2668-CO) was responsible for preparing and
appraising the new project. A key contribution was to recognize that a major obstacle to developing an
adequate framework for maintenance was the lack of definition of responsibilities between local, regional,
and national administration levels. In view of the difficulties usually associated with the design and
execution of institutional programs to build capacity at the local level, the appraisal should have elaborated
on a more detailed implementation plan for this component (paras. 31 - 35).
The major changes in the institutional set up and the further and swifter advancement of the
decentralization agenda could not be foreseen at appraisal. When the modernization decrees were passed
late in 1992, the Bank advised the Government about the risks associated with organizing the new units and
cofinancing systems, and getting them to function smoothly, within the short transition periods established
under the decrees. Though the Bank recognized that in the long run the reform would increase the
efficiency in the provision of public services, it did not deem feasible to accomodate the project to the
drastic decentralization process as this would have jeopardized the on-going works at a time when most
institutional development components were completed. Bank supervision missions discussed the
implications of the decentralization agenda for achieving the objectives of the project with high level
officials at the Ministry of Transport, the National Fund for Territorial Development (FINDETER) and the
National Planning Department, and drew the attention of the sector authorities on the issues that the agenda
should address to ensure long-term sustainability (paras. 37 - 38). This dialogue bore fruit only towards
the end of the project when, in 1995, the Government, acknowledging the difficulties of implementing the
decentralization in the continuous absence of local technical, financial and administrative capacity,
suspended the liquidation of FNCV, cancelled the transfer of rural roads, and established a cofinancing
system that would take into account the capacity of the departnents.



- iii -
Borrower Performance
FNCV introduced between 1988-89 the cofinancing system ensuring that local government, particularly
those in more need, had access to the system The screening and the economic and environmental
evaluation of road construction and improvement subprojects were done using the methodologies designed
and tested under the Rural Transport Sector Project (Ln. 2668-CO) (para. 41).
The modemization decrees issued in 1992 were prepared at the last minute to comply with a Constitutional
deadline, and by a few people in the Presidency and DNP, without extensive involvement of the institutions
affected. This resulted in implementation problems during the transition period. Key elements of the
reform needed further legislation. The reform process would have benefited from a more participative
design and a well-structured implementation plan. However, political factors may sometimes require quick,
radical changes while there is a favorable opportunity. This was the criteria that prevailed at the time of
approving the plan for liquidation of FNCV. The progress in developing the new institutions and financial
sources that were supposed to take over FNCV's responsibilities was slower than the phasing out of FNCV,
to the extent that in June 1995 Congress suspended the liquidation of FNCV, which will now continue
operating until the weakest departments and local governments demonstrate sufficient capacity to undertake
this responsibility alone (paras. 44 - 45).
Summary of Findings
The project's outcome can be considered marginally satisfactory. Under difficult institutional
circumstances, the works component was largely executed. The project contributed to the definition of the
reforms mandated by the decentralization agenda and key sector policies advanced by the Transport Law.
The road classification completed under the project was an instrument in the definition of responsibilities
among the three levels of government prior to the reforms, and the study on road-user charges and funding
strategies highlighted the imbalances between responsibilities and financial resources. The Transport Law
set key principles to increase efficiency and effectiveness in road sector management, but most of them are
not yet fully implemented (para. 47).
The results of the long term efforts to build capacity at the local level and mobilize municipios to assume
their responsibilities for road maintenance were mixed. As the experience of FNCV shows, it will take time
until local governments fully assume such responsibility for road maintenance and the principle that
maintenance should be provided on a continuous basis; but that experience also recognizes that municipios
take action when they perceive the roads need repair. In retrospect, the project's outcome would have been
better, had the reform mandated a more gradual liquidation of FNCV or focused on a new role for FNCV,
consistent with the new decentralization policies. The sustainability of the project investments remains at
risk since in the long run it relies on (1) developing capacity for maintenance at the level of the departments
and local governments, and (2) implementing appropriate financing mechanisms for the departments and
local governments to secure a stable flow of funds for this purpose. Though there are issues yet to be
addressed, the prospects for improved sustainability are reasonably good since Government has shown its
commitment to furthering the decentralization of the road sector and make it work (para. 48).
Future Operations
Government is taking actions in three main areas that will eventually contribute to improving project
sustainability, namely: (a) strengthening the role of MOT to coordinate and monitor the implementation of



- iv -
technical assistance programs for subnational governments and assisting the departments in the preparation
of their road plans; (b) strengthening road sector funding by (1) increasing investment levels to clear the
existing road infrastructure backlog, (2) enhancing the structure of road user charges, to redirect the use of
matching grants under the cofinancing system, and (3) making operational the cofinancing system to
finance maintenance and rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary roads; and (c) reincorporating the
reorganized FNCV into the national cofinancing system to assist the weakest departments and municipios
in expanding, improving and maintaining their rural road networks (para. 51 - 56).
Lessons Learned
The experience gained so far in implementing the Colombian institutional reforms confirms that reform
processes do not immediately produce all the intended results. However, they open the dialogue to continue
the reform and allow permeation of "cultural" change, assuming that commitment to the reform is
steadfastly sustained. It is not enough to pass legislation, it is also necessary to internalize strategies and
concepts and this entails time. Political considerations may force quick, radical changes, even without a
sound implementation strategy in place but the risks of delays, and even reversals increase substantially,
and may jeopardize the achievement of the objectives of the reform. The dismantling of FNCV started
without having in place adequate financing mechanisms and the institutions that would take over its
responsibilities (para. 58).
The transfer of roads from the central government to the departments turned into protracted negotiations
over the control of the resources associated with it, instead of focusing on building capacity through some
time-bound programs. The financial mechanisms to support the transfer should be clearly defined in
advance to avoid this risk. The experience is demonstrating the need to develop financing mechanisms
based on user-charges --following the tariff concept established by the Transport Law-- to avoid the current
situation in which departments heavily depend on inter-governmental transfers to finance their programs
(para. 59).
Designing effective institutional programs aimed at building local capacity poses probably one of the
greatest challenges for development projects. The quality and sustainability of these programs become
even more critical when dealing with rural communities which are institutionally weaker and more difficult
to reach. The effectiveness and the prospects for sustainability of these programs can be increased by: (a)
promoting the dissemination of good practices adopted by municipios and the use of strategic partnerships.
The former carries strong motivation, thus becoming an effective way of speeding up the development of
local capacity. The latter may help address issues in training and mobilizing resources for maintenance;
(b) designing flexible programs, tailored to local or regional demands and provided in a decentralized
manner; and (c) ensuring sustained commitment while seeking progressive results. Though it is generally
accepted that building institutional capacity is a long term effort, this is often neglected in practice when the
objectives of such programs are set in a manner that is not consistent with the time needed to produce the
desired changes. More attention should be devoted to defining an appropriate sequence for the
interventions needed (which may go beyond the scope of one project) and setting progressive benchmarks.
The use of these benchmarks will help focus the programs on a few prioritized goals, facilitate the
assessment of progress and outcome, and increase motivation by showing early results (para. 62).
The experience of FNCV shows how difficult it is to move municipalities towards a "continuous"
maintenance culture, in spite of the increased "ownership" than can be expected from the cofinancing
system. The project suggests some elements that may help local governments to move to a culture of



maintenance: (a) some previous investment is needed to improve the condition of the roads to a condition in
which they are maintainable; (b) the effectiveness of routine maintenance becomes a demonstrated reality to
both road users and local authorities only after having delivered the services for a reasonable period of
time; (c) an affordable mechanism of road user charges secures a stable flow of funds for this purpose.
While the use of community-based organizations or microenterprises is an affordable solution for the
municipios, their sustainability requires prompt payment; (d) those with a vested interest in good roads
evaluate the results and exercise their voice before the local authorities. Local participation in screening
and identification of subprojects, favored by FNCV, should also be expanded to include decisions regarding
maintenance (para. 64).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS PROJECT
(LOAN 3157-CO)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The main objective of the project was to contribute towards achieving the country's economic and
social goals by: (a) helping classify the road network and define functions and responsibilities of national,
regional and local (municipal) authorities, and develop, strengthen and organize accordingly their
institutional capacity for managing rural roads activities; (b) ensuring over a realistic time frame,
satisfactory implementation of key policies in the roads sector, including those related to the administrative
decentralization process, road maintenance and investment programming, coordination and resource
mobilization between agencies at different administrative levels; (c) consolidating positive institution-
building advances in road management initiated by FNCV under the Rural Transport Sector Project (Loan
2668-CO) and during preparation of this project, especially in progranuming and supervision of civil works,
strengthening of its Regional Offices and organizing the maintenance activities; and (d) contributing to
financing a balanced four-year investment and maintenance program.
2.    These objectives were consistent with the Government's overall policies of expanding markets,
improving living conditions in rural areas and creating a favorable environment for private investment,
employment growth, and access to social resources. They were also in line with the Bank's country and
sector strategies that emphasized the importance of effectively maintaining and improving the access of
rural communities to social services and markets. While the objectives remained unchanged, project
implementation witnessed major changes in economic policy, institutional reform and decentralization. The
reforms implied slating FNCV for liquidation by end of 1995.
3.    The project design was simple. Its execution, however, was somewhat complex because it entailed
implementing (1) a large number of small subprojects scattered mostly throughout the poorest
municipalities, (2) a cofinancing system developed in 1989, which required mobilizing local governments in
the selection and financing of subprojects, and (3) more stringent environmental guidelines for the
execution of road works.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.    Macroeconomic and social goals. Farm access to markets in Colombia --and the competitiveness
of farm produce-- is conditioned by the extent and quality of rural access roads. As reported in an ex-post
evaluation of a sample of 18 subprojects, the project made a positive contribution in raising the living
standards of the rural population in the project areas by reducing transportation costs from producing



- 2 -
centers to markets, and increasing integration arnong rural communities and their local govenmments. This,
in tum, has helped bring stability to areas of social unrest.
5.     Classifying the road network and defining responsibilities. At this stage, these objectives have
been only partially achieved because the decentralization agenda --reshaped in 1993 to set new goals far
beyond those initially contemplated under the project-- is still under implementation. Though several issues
remain to be addressed, the new agenda sets the right direction by putting functional responsibilities,
resources and accountability closer to the administrative level that is better positioned to know the needs
and respond to them.
6.     The road classification established in October 1990 was a first step towards clarifying
responsibilities for road sector management'. FNCV, MOPT and the Secretariats of Public Works in each
department, under the guidance of MOPT, carried out an inventory of all public roads and assigned
functional responsibilities over each road. Later, these inventories became key tools at the time of planning
the transfer of roads to subnational governments. However, the classification fell short in addressing the
financing issues associated with these responsibilities (see para. 14). The classification assigned to local
governments the responsibility to maintain the local roads and even FNCV's network; the cofinancing
system introduced in 1988-89 made this clear, and required for all cofinanced maintenance subprojects that
local governments contribute with the labor needed to carry out the non-mechanized works.
7.    In December 1993, Congress approved the Transport Law which provides the legal framework for
the redistribution of responsibilities over transport infrastructure among central government, departments
and municipalities. The law sets key principles for increasing efficiency in the sector. Basically, it: (a)
mandates central government to transfer to the departments responsibility over about 13,000 km of
secondary roads under MOPT and all rural roads under FNCV, in total about 32% of the road system,
together with the resources needed to maintain or improve those roads. To this end, the Nation had to agree
with each department on a plan to gradually transfer such responsibilities and resources within a three-year
period, starting in January 1994; (b) requires the setting of road user-charges to fully recover infrastructure
maintenance, operation and development costs, and gives ample powers to the departments and
municipalities to charge tariffs, tolls, betterment levies and even surcharges on gasoline taxes exclusively
for transport infrastructure financing. To support the devolution of roads to the departments, the law also
establishes under FINDETER (a national financial agency)2 a new Road Cofinancing Fund (RCF) to pass
matching grants, exclusively for roads; (c) allows the departments to restructure their road agencies,
including the possibility of establishing autonomous private/public entities with capacity to raise their own
financing (ie., bonds issues, loans); and (d) provides the basic framework for franchising infrastructure
facilities to the private sector.
' / Under such classification, MOPT was responsible for about 25,600 km of national roads (primary and secondary
roads), the departments for about 39,264 km of secondary or regional roads, local governments for about 26,300
km of rural roads, while FNCV for about 23,000 km of mostly rural roads (those which had been built by FNCV in
the past).
2/ Under the institutional set-up created by the law, departments prepare together with local governments the road
investment and maintenance programs proposed for cofinancing through the RCF (central goverrunent matching
grants). Specialized units (UDECOs, Unidades Departamentales Especiales de Cofinanciacion) have been set in
each department, with representation of local governments, to coordinate these efforts and approve the programs
proposed for cofinancing in the various sectors. FINDETER approves the matching grants and makes payments
under the RCF. Other funds under the cofinancing system created in 1992 include the Social Investment Fund
(health and education), the Urban Infrastructure Fund, and the Integrated Rural Development Fund.



-3 -
Box 1: An Overlook of Colombia's Decentralization and Cofinancing Policies
1983.86  Law 14 of 1983 grants municipalities greater revenue raising powers. Law 12 of 1986
increases the municipalities' share of the national sales tax (VAT) with a formula that
explicitly rewards fiscal effort and favors small municipalities with low fiscal capacity
1987-91   Decree 77 of 1987 assigns to local governments responsibility over tertiary or local roads.
FNCV is transformed into a cofinancing agency which must secure the contribution of local
and regional governments in the form of budgetary transfers, labor, equipment/materials, or
scrvices (cngineering dcsigns, supervision). FNCV cstablishcs a cofinancing formula in 1988
and modifies the investment selection procedures to include local/regional pre-screening and
evaluation of candidate projects (final approval remains within FNCV).
.992-95  The new Constitution of 1991 mandates the modemization of the state and further
decentralization. Decree 2171 of 1992 restructurcs MOPT into a Ministry of Transport
(MOT), creates the National Institute of Highways (INVIAS) and slates FNCV for liquidation
by the end of 1995. The Transport Law of 1993 passes on to the departments responsibility
over a substantial part of the national road network, including the road network under FNCV.
It also establishes a new Road Cofinancing Fund (RCF) under FINDETER to substitute
FNCV's cofinancing activities. Decree 1820 of 1993 defines the plan for liquidation of FNCV
and closure of its Regional Offices in a three-year pcriod. By mid-1995 (1) FNCV's staff totals
about 160 officials from about 1,750 in 1992, (2) only ninc regional offices remain in
operation, and (3) about 16,000 km of roads still remain under FNCV, while about 7,000 km
are transferred to the departments.
................................................................   .................I..... . . ....................... .... . .................................................................................................................................
19-to   Law I88 of 1995 temporarily suspends the liquidation of FNCV until departments and local
date      govcrnmcnts devclop capacity to manage thcir road nctworks. The decentralization and
corinancing systems are kept, but the transfer of roads from FNCV is halted. Decree 2128 and
2222 "reorganizc" FNCV to cofinance construction and maintenance activities on rural roads
not yet transferred to the departments and evaluate the administrative, financial and technical
capacity of the departments beforc passing responsibility ovcr the rural roads.
8.     The decision to pass FNCV's road network on to the departments was taken on account that most
of the municipalities were too weak to receive them and too many (more than one thousand) to efficiently
manage the transfer. Though this decision has simplified the transfer, it may also result in an unclear
definition of jurisdiction, with local governments not acknowledging their day-to-day responsibility for
rural road maintenance. To date, the transfer of all secondary national roads and of about 7,000 km of
rural roads has been completed. While endorsing the decentralization process mandated by the Colombian
Constitution of 1991, a subsequent law in 1995 halted the liquidation of FNCV, which will continue
operating until subnational governments demonstrate they have the capacity to assume full responsibility
for the rural road system.
9.     Implementing key policies in the road sector. The project was very successful in putting in place
the first cofinancing system with the municipios and the administrative decentralization within FNCV. The
cofinancing mechanism introduced in 1988-89 substantially increased FNCV's responsiveness to local
needs and built "ownership" on the part of the municipios, which had to contribute in cash or kind to
defray the cost of the investments3. In particular, FNCV was very successful in ensuring that the poorest
3/ The cofinancing formulae used by FNCV between 1990-95 established that municipalities with population over
500,000 inhabitants should contribute with 30% of the total cost, municipalities with population between 100,000



municipios had access to the cofinancing system, and in managing through its 24 Regional Offices the
work programs agreed with each municipio. Throughout project implementation, FNCV together with the
benefited municipios selected about 135 road subprojects (55 for road construction and 80 for road
improvement) located within the boundaries of about 300 municipalities. These subprojects were chosen
following the guidelines set under the national plan for eradication of extreme poverty and the requests
submitted by the municipios, and giving priority to completing road subprojects started under the previous
Rural Roads Transport Project (Loan 2668-CO). FNCV's involvement contributed to emphasizing the
priority of road improvements and maintenance over new construction.
10.   The cofinancing process also changed the arrangements for selecting the projects, placing the
initiative squarely on the local governments. Many local governments required FNCV to undertake
additional works on roads other than those strictly under its mandate in order to agree on the investments to
be cofinanced. While this reflected the priorities assigned by local governments to the road networks in
their area (independently of jurisdiction) it forced FNCV to disperse its resources over an increasingly
expanded road network (from about 23,000 in 1989 to about 37,000 km in 1993), and weakened the
institutional framework for road maintenance planning. This was compounded by the fact that, in line with
the decentralization agenda, FNCV was an agency neither designed to routinely maintain the entire rural
road network nor allowed to grow in order to achieve such goal.
11.   Long-term efforts to build up institutional capacity at the local level proved to be more difficult, in
part because FNCV's work programs concentrated on those municipios with most prevailing needs, low
institutional capacity and, in many cases, conflicting working environments (presence of violence or social
unrest). In the very small municipios (typically with populations below 10,000) the mayor becomes a one-
man band being in charge of most activities that require certain degree of qualification, imposing certain
fragility for the sustainability of the capacity development process. With the assistance from the Advance
School for Public Administration (ESAP), FNCV conducted training courses on road maintenance
management, cofinancing and economic-environmental screening of road investments, for relevant staff in
its Regional Offices and municipal administrations involved in the project. In 1993 when the decision to
phase out FNCV was announced, FNCV organized workshops in each region to transfer its know-how
(planning, engineering, contracting and supervising projects) to the municipal environment. Three
additional elements were brought to the agenda: (1) the updating of the road inventory to support the
transfer of roads, (2) the costing of typical road activities (including a fair assessment of the costs of
owning and operating equipment fleets, and (3) the dissemination of good practices, taken from initiatives
successfully implemented by other comparable municipios (such as arrangements to share equipment
among members of an association of municipalities, the expanded use of contract maintenance, and the
setting of rural road committees to manage maintenance programs).
12.   The transfer of roads under FNCV to the departments mandated by the Transport Law in
December 1993, also implied shifting the priorities for the institutional strengthening program, as it
required accommodating a new cofinancing system which assigned a (new) critical role to the departments
(with whom FNCV had almost no past experience). The new decentralization framework has required, in
different ways, that the municipios work together with their departments. Departments have a
coordinating, monitoring and assisting role to play. However, with the exception of a few departments,
and 500,000 inhabitants should contribute 20%, and municipalities with less than 100,000 inhabitants should
contribute 1 to 15% (the actual percentage based on the amount of value-added taxes being transferred by central
government); for maintenance works, the minimum cofinancing requirement was 5%.



there is still a significant gap between this proposed role and the observed reality. Furthermore, many
municipios have either confrontational or distant relationships with the departmental government. The
sustainability of the new cofinancing system requires addressing the institutional weakness of most of the
departments and strengthening the relationship with their municipios, in order to position them adequately
to play the role of partners and enablers of local efforts.
13.   In line with the new functional responsibilities in the sector and the weakened capacity of FNCV to
continue with these efforts, after 1994 the Ministry of Transport and FINDETER took over the
responsibility for institutional building and for coordinating resource mobilization between agencies at the
subnational level. The series of seminars undertaken in 25 of the 32 departments focused on (1) the
decentralization of the road network and the national cofinancing system, (2) identification, preparation,
evaluation and approval of road subprojects, (3) preparation of transport plans at the departmental level,
and (4) preparation and supervision of environmental management plans for road subprojects. Long-term
institutional building programs will be furthered in the context of a Departmental Roads Project, which
GOC is presently preparing with IDB. Implementing the decentralization of the road sector is taking longer
than initially anticipated.
14.   The Road Funding Strategies and User Charges Study was completed early in 1995. Though late
to contribute to shaping the reforms, nevertheless it made an important contribution by bringing attention to
the need to balance responsibilities, institutional capacity and financial resources at subnational levels, a
key element initially overlooked by the reforms. The study was included in the project to identify funding
alternatives for FNCV and the rural roads subsector, but its scope was extended to review the structure of
road user charges for the entire road system to accommodate the institutional changes being introduced by
the 1992-1993 reforms. Among other conclusions, the study showed that: (a) cost recovery at the national
level exceeded the 1994 expenditures, but would need to be complemented in order to support the
expansion and modernization of the network as planned under the National Development Plan for 1995-
1998; (b) while actual expenditures were not known, cost recovery at the subnational levels is about 15%
of the projected needs; (c) the structure of road user charges should be revised to better reflect marginal
cost pricing (underestimated in the case of heavy vehicles) and a framework for its implementation
conveniently delineated in line with the provisions of the Transport Law; and (d) as important (if not more)
than the structure of road user charges or the extent of cost recovery, is the interplay between the
responsibilities that different levels of governments have regarding the road network, their financing
resources and their implementation capabilities. The study highlighted that as a result of the existing
imbalances between responsibilities, institutional capacity and financial resources at the departmental and
local levels, the RCF will neither address the existing financial gaps at subnational levels nor put in place
an adequate framework for road maintenance, in the absence of other explicit counterpart sources managed
by the departments as part of a well-established road-user charges system. A second stage of this study is
presently underway (funded by Loan 3453-CO) to define a coherent roads funding strategy at each
government level and recommend mechanisms to ensure a stable flow of funds for road maintenance.
15.   Consolidating institutional advances within FNCV. The progress in consolidating institutional
advances within FNCV was remarkable till 1993. FNCV strengthened its Regional Offices with sufficient
delegation of authority, qualified technical staff, and resources to assist the local governments involved in
the programs --a key objective of the strategy set to foster a fruitful dialogue with local governments.
However, the substantial efficiencies consolidated between 1988-1992 were later offset by the mandated
liquidation of FNCV. This process entailed retrenching about 1,600 staff, and closing 15 out of the 24
Regional Offices. Though most of FNCV's know-how and procedures were passed on to FINDETER's



RCF in 1993 to promote their application by subnational governments, valuable information was lost
during the liquidation process. All in all, the positive experience gained through the deconcentrated FNCV
became a model for departments to work together with their own municipalities, but will take time and
considerable institutional building efforts until the departments develop that capacity.
16.   One major objective in the SAR was to strengthen investment programming and maintenance
managernent capability with particular emphasis on training staff of the regional offices and the
Maintenance Division, which was established by project approval. The Maintenance Division implemented
a comprehensive maintenance management system to program and control maintenance operations,
especially those carried out by force account. In spite of productivity gains, FNCV's maintenance capacity
never reached the targets envisioned under the project in part due to the constraints imposed by an aging
fleet that could not be renewed and by a cofinancing system that gave the municipio the right to choose
which roads should be attended. From 1993 and on, the progressive closure of Regional Offices, the
retrenchment of equipment operators, and the departure of qualified personnel at both central and regional
level, further reduced such capacity and ultimately led to phasing out the force account program. The
Maintenance Division and the Environmental Unit, both established under the project, were disbanded by
end- 1994 and mid-1995, respectively.
17.   Financing a balanced four-year investment and maintenance program. In spite of the
disruptions created by the retrenchment program, FNCV substantially accomplished this objective, with the
exception of routine maintenance for the reasons explained in para. 18 below. The works, however, were
completed one year behind the initial schedule. With project funds, FNCV achieved the following physical
targets: (a) construction of about 776 kmn of rural roads (or about 97% of the target planned at appraisal);
(b) improvements on about 1053 km of roads (or about 81 % of the target); (c) construction of about 1,134
meters of small bridges (or about 101% of the target); and (d) periodic maintenance on about 1,239 km of
roads (or 55% of the initial target). The shortfall in periodic maintenance is compensated by a greater
achievement under FNCV's 1988-1993 Investment and Maintenance Plan (which more than doubled the
periodic maintenance target). This suggests that local governments favored cofinancing maintenance when
done by force account (which required contributions in kind and/or labor) rather than by contract (which
required financial contributions). FNCV cofinanced routine maintenance on about 17,890 km of rural
roads (or about 69% of the appraisal target) in four years. On average this represents an annual coverage
of about 20% of the entire network.
18.   Though the Investment and Maintenance Program gave priority to periodic maintenance, several
reasons prevented FNCV from achieving the targets planned for routine maintenance: (a) the deteriorated
condition of the rural road network called for more periodic maintenance, and local mayors favored
periodic maintenance over routine maintenance when cofinancing with FNCV; (b) many municipalities
lacked the resources (financial, institutional and human) to carry out routine maintenance on a continuos
basis; and (c) the targets under the force account program were progressively reduced in line with the
liquidation of FNCV, while delays in setting the RCF prevented other agencies from stepping in and
complementing FNCV's force account program. Not only the force account targets were revised down
from 1994 and on, but compliance with those targets became increasingly poor (around 40 to 50% of the
annual targets) reflecting the deteriorating working environments in most of the Regional Offices.
19.   Economic Results. FNCV conducted an ex-post evaluation of a representative sample of 18 road
sub-projects, to assess whether the projects achieved the Net Present Values (NPV) and Benefit/Cost
Ratios (B/C) estimated at the time they were selected and appraised. The sample comprised construction



and improvement subprojects, located in different regions of the country. The analysis entailed field
surveys undertaken between May and July 1996. The outcome of the analysis is shown in Table 9.
20.   The economic indicators are satisfactory, though generally lower than those anticipated at the
respective appraisals (although 6 subprojects out of 18 show higher returns). The initial investment targets
were reduced in some cases due to poor initial estimates, in others because the scope of the works was
reduced to match the availability of funds in the approved budget. The results of the retrospective
evaluation carried out by FNCV and, in particular, the analysis of the results obtained in the ex-post
evaluation, highlight the following conclusions:
a) most of the construction subprojects showed increases in the areas cultivated and minor
improvements in productivity. The benefits notably exceeded appraisal projections in two
subprojects where industrialized fishery substituted traditional crops. Field surveys proved that
local peasant's access to new markets and social services also improved;
b) other factors accounted for reductions in subproject benefits, namely (1) a drop in local agriculture
prices during project implementation due to reductions in Colombian trade protections and in
international prices, (2) a severe drought that affected most of the country, and (3) increased rural
insecurity in the region. In the sample, the presence of social unrest and violence in the area was
acknowledged in 11 of the 18 subprojects (or about 61% of the sample); and
c) local government's sense of ownership --as expressed by commitment to cofinance the works and
assume future maintenance responsibilities-- varied depending on the purpose served by the road.
Local governments favored cofinancing those roads providing access to the municipal capital or
connecting the municipal capital with main corridors, with less interest in rural roads reaching
small communities and almost none in rural roads serving communities within the municipal
boundaries but with no commercial interaction with the municipal capital. Most of the roads in the
sample showed that although some maintenance had been done after the construction or
improvement works, maintenance was generally neglected. However even those roads in critical
condition were being used by local traffic with positive benefits for the living conditions of local
peasants.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   Several external factors had significant negative impact on project execution. The most critical
included: (1) new economic and social policies that shifted priorities from the past focus on rural
development and poverty alleviation to the opening up of the economy and modernization of the state, (2)
institutional reforms in the sector that brought major changes to the road sector and defined new goals for
the decentralization agenda, (3) the attempt to liquidate FNCV, as part of these reforms, that progressively
weakened FNCV, (4) delays in implementing the new cofinancing system that added uncertainty to the
devolution of roads and left part of the road network unattended, and (5) the introduction of new
environmental policies and regulations that increased the number of institutions involved in issuing
environmental permits and, in turn, slowed down the execution of several road subprojects. The fact that
FNCV could complete the project within this adverse environment demonstrates the high degree of
professionalism it had achieved by 1992.



- 8 -
22.   New economic and social policies. The new administration that took office in August 1990
adopted new economic policies aimed at opening up the economy to international competition and lowering
protection for national industries and services. Government efforts shifted to substantiating the major
reforms needed to modernize the state and support that policy, giving less priority than the preceding
administration to rural development and poverty eradication. For the rural road subsector, this translated
into tighter fiscal policies and substantial cuts in public investments. Delays in approving counterpart,
funds significantly slowed down project execution in 1990 and early 1991.
23.   Major institutional reforms. To support the policy of opening up the economy, Govermment
embarked on a series of reforms to redefine the role of the state, eliminate its presence in areas considered
unnecessary or unproductive, and reinforce decentralization by shifting responsibility for public
investments to the departments and municipalities. Article 20 of the July 1991 Constitution gave the
Executive Branch of the government transitional powers, for a period of 18 months, to modernize the
organization of the state and ensure consistency between the organization of public entities and the
constitutional reforms. Just three days before the transitional period expired, Government issued a total of
61 decrees that eliminated, restructured, fused, or created various public sector entities.
24.   The modernization decrees were written keeping in mind the need to minimize transitional
implementation problems and unnecessary changes in projects being executed with external funding.
Decree 2171, dated December 30, 1992, (1) transformed MOPT into a Ministry of Transport (MOT)
responsible only for planning and policy making, not its execution, (2) eliminated the National Highway
Fund and entrusted to a new autonomous agency --the Instituto Nacional de Vias, INVIAS-- management
of a well-defined network of import/export corridors and trunk roads, (3) eliminated by end-1995, FNCV
and MOPT's field districts (the former in support of the expanded agenda for decentralization and the latter
in support of a policy of contracting out all works, including maintenance). The three-year time frame
established for liquidation of FNCV was just enough to complete the execution of the project as originally
planned; several programs under FNCV not directly funded by the project were severely curtailed (among
these was the force account maintenance program). As the actual experience showed, this time frame
proved too short to develop the new cofinancing system that was intended to replace FNCV.
25.   Implementing the Decree implied transferring the responsibility for FNCV's road network.
Because of limitations in the powers entrusted by the Constitution, the Decree could not address this issue.
After protracted discussions, Congress passed on December 30, 1993 --one year later-- the Transport Law
that redistributed responsibilities in the sector. As noted in para. 7, the responsibility over FNCV's
network was passed on to the departments, instead of the municipalities with whom FNCV had been
working with. The institutional strengthening programs that aimed at strengthening local governments had
to be revised to include the departments, at a stage where FNCV was too weak to react.
26.   Liquidation of FNCV. The liquidation of FNCV posed, no doubt, the greatest challenge for
completing the project investments on time. The three-year retrenchment program started in 1993 and
progressively weakened FNCV. FNCV's staff was regarded as one of the most charismatic groups in the
sector, but following the decision to eliminate the agency, qualified and experienced staff departed as better
opportunities became available for them in the public sector (new institutions in the road subsector) and the
private sector (existing firms and new small firms formed by former MOPT and FNCV staff). From a
total of about 1,750 staff in 1992 before the liquidation, the staff was reduced to about 1,250 by December
1993, about 660 by June 1994, about 380 by December 1994, and about 160 by May 1995. Similarly,
three Regional Offices were closed as early as end-1993, 12 remained in operation by end-1994, and 9 by



- 9 -
June 1996, when the liquidation was reversed. The initial plan had called for a much more gradual
approach, with the Regional Offices kept in operation till the end to retain capacity for key services (such
as maintenance, liaison with local governments) during the transition to the new set up. With the
disbanding of several units within FNCV and its Regional Offices, the supervision arrangements became a
bottleneck and its quality deteriorated from 1994 and on. Political instability also shook FNCV and
compounded this adverse environment. The turnover in top management posts was very high, with five
Directors/Liquidators appointed during the last four years. Also, early in 1994, a top official was removed
from his post accused of mismanaging work contracts.
27.   Delays in implementing the new cofinancing system. Implementing the new cofinancing system
took much longer than anticipated, creating even more uncertainty and, ultimately, leaving a large portion
of the rural road network unattended and in rapid deterioration. Both, the cofinancing matrix for
apportioning funds among departments and investment programs under the RCF and the necessary
budgetary provisions to support them, were not defined till late 1994. The departments were concerned
that they would receive the roads but not the funds needed to keep them up, in view of the little progress
made in implementing the RCF, and the uncertainties regarding the cofinancing matrix and the level of
funding that would become available through the RCF. Similarly, it took more time than planned to make
operational the specialized units (UDECOs) created in each department to coordinate preparation of the
investment programs proposed for cofinancing. As a result, the devolution of roads turned into time
consuming negotiations with the departments, demanding substantial attention and resources from an
FNCV already overwhelmed by the difficulties inherent to its liquidation.
28.   New environmental policies and procedures. The reforms included the creation of the Ministry
of the Environment to replace INDERENA in December 1993. The introduction of this new set up brought
more stringent regulations; the Corporaciones Autonomas Regionales (CARs) became responsible for
granting environmental clearances, but most of them were too weak to fulfill their duties in a timely and
efficient manner. This stalled the execution of several road subprojects and led to delays in obtaining
pending environmental permits from the CARs. FNCV's Environmental Unit was overstretched monitoring
the implementation of increasingly complex environmental plans. Some road construction subprojects
along sensitive areas (high mountain ranges) were reduced in length to mitigate negative environmental
impacts or to free funds to improve drainage and slope conditions on existing contiguous sections. The
Environmental Unit, composed mostly by consultants, was disbanded in 1995.
D.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The sustainability of the project investments remains critical since in the long run it relies on (I)
developing capacity for maintenance at the level of the departments and local governments, and (2)
implementing appropriate financing mechanisms for the departments and local governments to secure a
stable flow of funds for this purpose. Though there are issues yet to be addressed, the prospects for
improved sustainability are reasonably good since Government has shown its commitment to furthering the
decentralization of the road sector and make it work. Paragraphs 51 - 56 briefly describe key actions
currently in progress that demonstrate such commitment.
30.   In furthering the agenda for decentralization, the following elements are key to the sustainability of
the project investrnents:



- 10-
a) further clarification of responsibilities between FNCV and RCF, and between departments and
local governments. Though now functional responsibilities over national, departmental, and local
roads are more clearly assigned, and departments and local governments acknowledge their
responsibilities for road maintenance, the transitional arrangements under the cofinancing system
may in practice dilute such responsibilities. In the short term, from a budgetary view point, it has
been established that FNCV will continue cofinancing works on those roads not yet transferred to
the departments, while the RCF will cofinance investments on the roads under direct control of
departments and local governments. In the long run, the transfer of roads to the departments must
be completed and the departments and their municipios must define together a workable framework
to split day-to-day responsibilities, with routine maintenance of all tertiary and rural roads in the
hands of local governments. Departments should not be exposed to the kind of "negotiations" that
FNCV suffered when cofinancing maintenance with the municipios;
b) improved financial mechanisms. The first priority is to implement the tariff concept established
under the Transport Law, based on road user-charges managed at the national, departmental and
local levels in order to reduce the existing dependence on intergovernmental transfers. This will
address some of the pending issues under the cofmancing system (ie., definition of funding levels
among the various programs, percentages for the cofinancing matrixes), and redirect the use of
matching grants to that of passing back to subnational governments that portion of the road user
charges collected at the national level, and of supporting national government priorities.;
c) more access to technical and institutional support. With some notable exceptions, most of the
departments and local governments not only need to build up capacity for road maintenance but
also to ingrain a culture of "continuous" maintenance. As the experience of FNCV shows, many
mayors believe that maintenance resources should be invested in other priorities as long as the road
is passable. The interventions needed to increase support for maintenance and produce a behavior
change must go beyond technical assistance and work, indirectly, by promoting responsible
leadership and community participation at the local level and demonstrational projects; and
d) an adequate information system for increased accountability. Road construction and maintenance
is an area in which municipios have been very active since the beginning of the decentralization
process. However, no systematic information is available regarding the coverage of these services
or the outcome of such initiatives. The information systems developed by FNCV were not directly
applied to monitor municipal programs, in part because they were too structured for the
municipio's capacity. At the local level, an effective decentralization starts with creating a "public"
to whom become accountable to. This public must know the results accomplished by the municipal
authorities, and to judge them appropriately, must be able to compare them with those in other
municipios. At the national level, MOT also needs to monitor the progress of those programs
executed through departmental and municipal governments to assess the outcome of national
transport policies. The national evaluation system mandated by the Constitution provides an
excellent opportunity to put the information and monitoring systems to work.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   Project identification and preparation. The project followed two previous successful operations
(Loans 1966-CO and 2668-CO) in the rural road subsector in Colombia. Project preparation benefited



- 11 -
from the previous experience with FNCV, as the same Bank team supervising the then on-going Rural
Transport Sector Project (Ln. 2668-CO) was responsible for preparing and appraising the new project.
32.   The Bank's involvement through the two past loans was instrumental in sustaining the expansion of
the rural road network and building FNCV's project implementation capacity. While continuing its
support to FNCV's investment program, this third operation aimed to further develop FNCV's institutional
strength, especially for maintenance, which in the past did not receive sufficient attention. Dunng the 80s,
FNCV had expanded its rural road network from about 16,300 km in 1979 to about 23,000 in 1989. So
the emphasis placed on maintenance under the project became very relevant and helped FNCV shift its
attention from expanding the network to building capacity for maintenance and balancing its investment
program. A key contribution was to recognize that a major obstacle to developing an adequate framework
for maintenance was the lack of definition of responsibilities between local, regional, and national
administration levels. FNCV was regarded as the only agency capable of adequately managing rural roads,
implementing government policies in the sector, and assisting local authorities in the decentralization
scheme introduced in 1988-89.
33.   Project appraisal. The appraisal correctly identified the main risks, namely the ability and
readiness of local governments to organize and develop technical capability to maintain the local road
networks effectively, and the level of funding needed at both local and central levels for this purpose. Both
continue to be major issues even today. It was foreseen that FNCV's Regional Offices, strengthened under
the project, would be an important vehicle to channel the required technical assistance to the local
governments. No consideration or function at all was given to the departments because a possible
Departmental Highways Maintenance Project was to follow later to address issues and investment
requirements of the secondary network. The radical reforms introduced by the modernzation decrees of
1992 or the Transport Law of 1993 could not be envisioned at the time of appraisal. Environmental
considerations were also correctly assessed, but again they were exceeded by the changes that follow the
creation of the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Law.
34.    Ihe targets set for FNCV's force account maintenance program turned out to be overly optimistic.
They assumed that FNCV's capacity for routine maintenance would almost double dunrng project
execution. However, in reality FNCV was an agency not allowed to grow because of the decentralization
trend and inhibited by an aging equipment fleet, strict budgetary constraints, and a cofinancing system that
implied mobilizing local governments to contribute to the cost and provide the labor needed for
maintenance.
35.   In view of the difficulties usually associated with the design and execution of institutional programs
to build capacity at the local level, the appraisal should have elaborated on a more detailed implementation
plan for this component, including the definition of strategic objectives and key milestones to be achieved in
both the Regional Offices and the municipios involved in project implementation. Also, the percentages of
Bank financing in the various loan disbursement categories were set in a way that favored civil works
(60%) over consultant services and training (45% and 50% respectively). Most of the training activities
were funded directly by FNCV with its own funds (later with the reform, other funding sources became
available through the RCF and MOT).
36.   Supervision. Project supervision utilized about 63 staff weeks throughout the implementation
period. Eleven supervision missions visited FNCV. The Back-to-Office reports provide for an easy follow
up of the project implementation and the developments under the decentralization agenda that had an



- 12 -
impact on the achievement of the project development objectives. Bank missions drew the attention of
FNCV, FINDETER and the new Ministry of Transport on key steps to address the long-term sustainability
of the reform (paras. 29 - 30 of this report reflect recommendations given by a Bank mission in September
1994). Though acknowledging the difficulties surrounding the implementation of the project, the
monitoring indicators for project implementation and development objectives were rated satisfactory from
1990 to mid-1995. In November 1995, in view of the uncertainties regarding the reorganization of FNCV
and the future of the decentralization agenda. which rendered critical the sustainability of the project
investments, those ratings were downgraded to unsatisfactory. The final ratings were raised to marginally
satisfactory in 1996, based on the signals given by GOC that implementation of the decentralization agenda
will continue with greater support of technical assistance programs aimed at developing capacity at both
departmental and local levels.
37.   In spite of having an on-going dialogue on main policies for the modermization of the state, the
Bank had little involvement in delineating the modernization decrees issued in December 1992. The decrees
affected a large number of projects in the portfolio in several ways (some required changing the borrower
or implementing agency, re-appraising the capacity of a new implementing agency, or restructuring the
projects). The Bank advised the Government about the risks associated with organizing the new units and
cofinancing systems, and getting them to function smoothly within the short transition periods allowed by
the decrees. But overall the Bank recognized that in the long run the reform would increase the efficiency
in the provision of public services through the key strategies (redefining/reducing the role of the state,
outsourcing, decentralization) being pursued.
38.   For the rural road sector the reform meant disbanding an efficient organization, FNCV, in a three-
year period that was perhaps sufficient to complete the project (if appropriate measures were undertaken to
minimize the disruptive impact of the reforms), but too short to develop the capacity of those who were
going to replace FNCV. The Bank recommended that FNCV adjust project implementation by: (a)
reviewing FNCV's Rural Road Investment Program, giving priority to completing on-going subprojects
and not approving new subprojects beyond 1994; (b) monitoring closely project execution through
increased reliance on consultants; (c) carrying out a gradual liquidation of FNCV under timetables tailored
to the capacity of the departments. This gradual approach envisaged that FNCV should start disbanding its
equipment fleet and force account crews, while retaining till the end other technical services such as
contract administration, supervision, and asssistance to local governments, provided by the Regional
Offices. This was not possible because GOC wanted a more abrupt liquidation to prevent any possibility
of reversing the reforms; (d) carrying out the targets for road maintenance (force account) defined under the
project through an appropriate arrangement consistent with the phasing out of FNCV. It was envisaged
that FNCV would still be able to accomplish these targets in 1993, and about 50% of them in 1994, so this
would require contracting out the remaining works to private contractors and/or increasing the participation
of local governments in delivering routine maintenance; (e) expanding the scope of the study of the
Borrower's financing structure to take into account the new institutional framework introduced by the
reform; and (f) a parallel effort to build the department and local governments' capacity to prepare and
execute road projects, and establish a sustainable system for road maintenance through a combination of
contracted maintenance and increased participation of local governments using labor-intensive methods.
39.   The major changes in the institutional set up and the further and swifter advancement of the
decentralization agenda could not be foreseen at appraisal. When the modernization decrees were passed
late in 1992, the Bank advised the Government about the risks associated with organizing the new units and
cofinancing systems, and getting them to function smoothly, within the short transition periods established



- 13-
under the decrees. At the moment, the Bank did not deem feasible to restructure the project and
accomodate it to the drastic decentralization process as this would have jeopardized the on-going works at a
time when most institutional development components were completed. Bank supervision missions
discussed the implications of the decentralization agenda for achieving the objectives of the project with
high level officials at the Ministry of Transport, the National Fund for Territorial Development
(FINDETER) and the National Planning Department, and drew the attention of the sector authorities on the
issues that the agenda should address to ensure long-term sustainability. This dialogue bore fruit only
towards the end of the project when, in 1995, the Government, acknowledging the difficulties of
implementing the decentralization in the continuous absence of local technical, financial and administrative
capacity, suspended the liquidation of FNCV, cancelled the transfer of rural roads, and established a
cofinancing system that would take into account the capacity of the departments.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.   Preparation  The Government's National Rehabilitation and Poverty Alleviation Program had
emphasized development and maintenance of rural roads in an effort, consistent with its overall priorities,
of expanding exports, improving living conditions in rural areas and creating incentives for employment
creation and access to social resources. FNCV's 1988-1993 Road Investment and Maintenance Program
was at the center of this strategy, when the project was identified.
41.   FNCV carried out the project preparation activities in a timely and efficient manner. Between
1988-89 FNCV introduced the cofinancing system ensuring that local government, particularly those in
more need, had access to the system The screening and the economic and environmental evaluation of
road construction and improvement subprojects were done using the methodologies previously designed and
tested under the Rural Transport Sector Project (Ln. 2668-CO). During project preparation, FNCV
correctly stated that some of the project objectives were outside the control of the agency; in line with this,
the loan documents assigned to MOPT responsibility for classifying the road network and defining
functional responsibilities among the central, regional and local levels.
42.   Project implementation. The loan agreement was declared effective six months later than
initially planned, once Government complied with the Bank general conditions for effectiveness.
Implementation of the project works also suffered delays in 1990 due to shortages in counterpart funds.
However, counterpart funds were increased later in 1991 and the pace of project implementation
accelerated.
43.   FNCV's use of small local contractors had proven cost-effective. While the experience under the
project confirms that strategy, the rate of problem contracts arose after 1993 and many road subprojects
experienced delays. Several factors contributed to this, most notably: (a) contractors' poor performance,
generally derived from the use of inadequate equipment, or the inability to cope with adverse weather
conditions. Many contractors were concerned about deploying new equipment units in areas where
violence could infringe damage to them or later hinder their redeployment outside the job sites; (b)
enviromnental considerations, which in some subprojects led to redesigning the works; and (c) local
govemments' late compliance with the cofinancing agreements, especially with regard to making the
financial contributions (an issue observed by Contraloria General de la Repiiblica, CGR). Though
FNCV' management of these situations was reasonably satisfactory, there was scope for improvement.
The quality of work supervision declined from 1994 and on, with the retrenchment of qualified staff and the



- 14 -
closure of Regional Offices. The impact of FNCV's liquidation on the execution of the project is briefly
discussed in paragraph 26.
44.   Though the reforms had been under discussion over 1991-92, it appears that many of the
modernization decrees issued in 1992 were prepared at the last minute to comply with the Constitutional
deadline, and by a few people in the Presidency and DNP, without extensive involvement of the institutions
affected. This resulted in implementation problems during the transition period. Key elements of the
reform needed further legislation, because the Constitution had not empowered the Executive Branch to
redistribute competencies among the central, regional and local levels of government. From a technical
view point, it can be concluded that the reform process would have benefited from a more participative
design and a well-structured implementation plan. However, political factors may sometimes require quick,
radical changes while there is a favorable opportunity.
45.   The progress in developing the new institutions and financial sources that were supposed to take
over FNCV's responsibilities was slower than the phasing out of FNCV, to the extent that some
congressmen started questioning late in 1994 whether the liquidation of FNCV should proceed as initially
planned. Finally in June 1995, Congress approved the National Development and Investment Plan 1995-
1998 (Law 188-95), which suspended the liquidation of FNCV, but it was not until December 1995 that
the decree reorganizing FNCV was passed. As the legislation states it, the reorganization of FNCV does
not mean that the decentralization policy is being reversed, but rather that FNCV becomes an additional
option to provide continuity in the rural roads programs until the weakest departments and local
governments demnonstrate sufficient capacity to undertake this responsibility alone.
46.   Compliance with loan covenants. Compliance with loan covenants was generally satisfactory,
with the exception of the financial and audit covenants. In its audits reports CGR, pointed out several
deficiencies in FNCV's accounts and internal control procedures which led to adverse opinions on the
financial statements of the agency and in various occasions on the project accounts. The annual audit
reports were always late, four to eight months later than the covenant date, giving little chance for FNCV to
discuss and clear the deficiencies observed by CGR. The administrative decentralization to the Regional
Offices compounded the problem since many of them were lacking staff with appropriate accounting skills.
In 1994, FNCV made remarkable efforts to clear those deficiencies and reinforced the internal control and
accounting functions in both headquarters and the Regional Offices still in operation, an effort that was
acknowledged by CGR. Nevertheless, FNCV's financial statements of December 31, 1995 received again
a negative opinion from CGR.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
47.   Overall rating. The project's outcome can be considered marginally satisfactory. Given the
implementation scenario, overall performance was better than could be expected. The majority of the
sector policy objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved once Government completes the
implementation of its decentralization policies. The road classification and inventory completed early in the
project became a key instrument during implementation of the reforms, first defining responsibilities among
the three levels of government prior to the reform, and later, supporting the transfer of secondary and rural
roads to the departments. With the transfer of secondary roads, the national road network is now confined
to a well-defined network of import/export corridors and trunk roads, which removes the pressures that in
the past led to spreading thin national resources to satisfy regional balances. The Transport Law sets key
principles to increase efficiency and effectiveness in road sector management. The study on road-user



- 15 -
charges and funding strategies highlighted the existing imbalances between responsibilities, capacity and
financial resources, an aspect probably overlooked initially by the reform but that now is gaining support
among the sector authorities. Unfortunately the study came too late to implement its recommendations
within the project's time frame, but this effort is being pursued with support from the on-going Loan 3453-
Co.
48.   The results of the long term efforts to build capacity at the local level and mobilize municipios to
assume their responsibilities for road maintenance were mixed. As the experience of FNCV shows, it will
take time until local governments fully assume their responsibility for road maintenance and the principle
that maintenance should be provided on a continuous basis; but that experience also recognizes that
municipios take action when they perceive the roads need repair. A study performed by the Bank4on a
sample of 16 muncipios concludes that the experience of those municipios suggests that municipal
governments can be more reliable service providers than it is sometimes assumed. The study confirms that
roads is an area in which municipios have been very active since the beginning of the decentralization
process. Furthermore, the evidence collected shows an expansion in the local road networks, and notable
emphasis on road maintenance in ten of the sixteen municipios. Though there is scope for improvement,
the project made an important contribution in this area.
49.   The achievement of the physical targets planned in the SAR was substantial, contributing to
expanding and improving the condition of the rural road network. The economic analysis performed upon
project completion on a sample of 18 subprojects shows that the investments had positive impact in
reducing transportation costs and improving access to markets. The economic indicators are satisfactory,
though generally lower than those anticipated at the respective appraisals. Agriculture production in the
rural areas suffered with the reduction in trade barriers that came with the opening up of the economy.
However, this has increased farmer's awareness about transport cost constraints, which is likely to lead to
a better exploitation of the cost savings to be made at the farm-to-local market level.
50.   In retrospect, the project's outcome would have been better, had the reform mandated a more
gradual liquidation of FNCV or focused on a new role for FNCV, consistent with the new decentralization
policies.
H.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
51.   Government is taking actions in three main areas that will eventually contribute to improving
project sustainability, namely (1) strengthening the role of MOT, (2) strengthening road sector funding, and
(3) re-incorporating the reorganized FNCV into the national cofinancing system.
52.   Strengthening the role of the Ministry of Transport. MOT, through its Directorate of Rural
Roads, has to play a leading role to coordinate and monitor the implementation of technical assistance
programs for subnational governments. MOT will assess whether a department has achieved the technical,
administrative and financial capacity to receive the road network still under FNCV, using a criteria that is
currently under discussion. The evaluation will be based on the department's performance in managing the
secondary roads that were transferred from the national level. With funding provided under the RCF,
4 J"Colombia Local Government Capacity: Beyond Technical Assistance", Country Operations Division I,
Country Department HII. Report No. 14085-CO. July 7, 1995



- 16 -
MOT is assisting the departments in the preparation of their road plans. GOC is preparing with IDB a new
operation aimed at building the institutional capacity of the departments.
53.   Strengthening road sector funding. This is being pursued by increasing investment levels,
enhancing the structure of road user charges, and making operational the cofinancing system to finance
maintenance and rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary roads (with special emphasis on those roads
transferred from the national level). Government has substantially increased investments in the road sector,
from about 1% of GDP during 1991-94 to about 2.3% for 1995-98, in order to clear the existing road
infrastructure backlog and accommodate the transport system to present needs. The Development Plan
entails investing about US$7.2 billion, out of which US$1.2 billion would be apportioned to support the
devolution of roads to departments. With funding provided under the on-going Loan 3453-CO,
Government is undertaking a second-phase of the study on Road User Charges and Funding Strategies to,
among other objectives, put in place a better structure, consistent with the principles of the Transport Law
and more adequate for road maintenance financing. This would allow redirecting the matching grants
under the cofinancing system to target poverty and externalities between departments, provide incentives
for reforms or increased outsourcing, and passing back to subnational governments that portion of the road
user charges that are collected at the national level. Government is also streamlining the procedures to
access the cofmancing system.
54.   Reincorporating FNCV into the National Cofinancing System. The reorganized FNCV will
continue expanding the rural road network, improving the condition of those rural roads that have not yet
been transferred to subnational governments, and building up capacity for road maintenance at the local
level in line with the decentralization policy adopted by the Colombian government. The new role
emphasizes the latter objective over the executing functions. FNCV will coexist with the departmental
cofinancing units (UDECOs); the former will be charged with implementing those subprojects specifically
requested by local governments and identified in the central government annual budget, while the latter will
be responsible for putting together the departmental road programs that will be submitted for cofinancing to
the RCF.
55.   The reorganized FNCV will adopt the same cofinancing procedures established under the RCF.
Hence, FNCV will contract out all works to private firms, community-based and local organizations,
regional entities, phasing out its force account program. It is envisaged that by phasing out the force
account program, the Regional Offices will be in a better position to channel technical assistance to
departments and municipios and focus on monitoring departments and local governments' compliance with
the targets agreed under the rural roads maintenance programs. To support this process, FNCV plans to
develop micro-enterprises for routine maintenance, expanding the system so successfully used by MOPT
and now INVIAS on national roads. These cooperatives will be charged with maintaining an average of 30
km of roads in the local area, under the supervision of FNCV's Regional Offices. Periodic maintenance
activities will be undertaken by private contractors or associations of municipios.
56.   The operational plan prepared by FNCV in October 1996 is shown in Appendix B. The plan
follows the structure of a logical framework. Key targets sought by the plan are highlighted below:
Objective                                Performnance Indicator
Upgrade the condition of the  In two years time...
rural road network        => the condition of about 2,000 km of rural roads is improved;
=> about 20,000 km of rural roads are annually maintained, with periodic



- 17 -
maintenance activities over 4,000 kin;
Develop institutional capacity,  In three months time...
complete the transfer of roads    = FNCV is reorganized (including headquarters and Regional Offices)
to the departments,. and     = the distribution of responsibilities between FNCV, RCF, departments and local
implement at the local level the  governments is clarified and understood by subnational governments;
maintenance program based on    In six months time...
microenterprises             => the institutional building plan for departmental and local governments is
agreed with MOT and its implementation begins with funding through FNCV
and RCF's budgets;
the first 50 pilot microenterprises are established to routinely maintain rural
roads networks;
=> the mechanisms for the transfer of roads to the departments are established;
In one year time...
> about 200 microenterprises formed to routinely maintain rural roads networks;
> about 300 municipios and the departments are involved in the technical
assistance program;
In two years time...
about 900 microenterprises formed to maintain rural roads networks under the
supervision of local governments and FNCV's Regional Offices
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
57.    Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project and of the major
institutional reform that took place between 1992-1993. For their possible application to the design of
other projects in Colombia, and perhaps in other countries as well, the lessons discussed below refer to the
implementation of institutional reform, the design of institutional building programs to reach local
governments, and the establishment of an enabling environment for road maintenance.
58.    The experience gained so far in implementing the Colombian institutional reforms confirms that
reform processes do not immediately produce all the intended results. However, they open the dialogue to
continue the reform and allow permeation of "cultural" change, assuming that commitment to the reform is
steadfastly sustained. It is not enough to pass legislation, it is also necessary to internalize strategies and
concepts, which entails time, and to lauch a program of law regulations which will evolve in light of the
experience gained. The Transport Law states key concepts (tariff for services, public-private partnerships
for Departments) but most of them have not been fully implemented because of the weak institutional base,
and insufficient efforts to overcome it through institutional building programs. Last minute approval of
legislation and the lack of an integral strategy to support the changes --in a country with notable capacity
for innovation but with a weaker record in implementation-- leads to few results. Political considerations
may force quick, radical changes, even without a sound implementation strategy in place, but the risks of
delays and setbacks increase substantially, and may jeopardize the achievement of the objectives of the
reform. The dismantling of FNCV started without having in place adequate financing mechanisms and the
institutions that would take over its responsibilities. Seen retrospectively, the retrenchment of FNCV's
highly committed and experience staff was a loss. It could have been avoided, had the reform provided for
a longer transitional period, linked with the progress made in establishing the new arrangements.
59.    The transfer of roads from the central government to the departments turned into protracted
negotiations over the control of the resources associated with it, instead of focusing on building capacity
through some time-bound programs. Many departmental governments expressed concern that the level of



- 18 -
funding that would become available through the RCF would not match the expanded responsibilities. The
mechanisms, financial and otherwise, to support the transfer should be clearly defined in advance to avoid
this risk The financial incentive added later (one time financial contribution per km of road transferred)
was an attractive means to promote the transfer but does little to ensure the sustainability of the process.
The RCF has to give more support to the weakest departments when assigning resources. There is still a
risk that the roads transferred to the weakest departments may reverse to national agencies if these
departments do not promptly develop enough capacity to maintain their networks. In the case of rural
roads, this risk is more evident due to the higher likelihood of road closures, particularly in mountainous
regions. The experience is demonstrating the need to develop financing mechanisms based on user-charges
--following the tariff concept established by the Transport Law-- to avoid the current situation in which
departments heavily depend on inter-governmental transfers (through the RCF) and support from
municipalities to finance their programs.
60.   Designing effective institutional programs aimed at building local capacity poses probably one of
the greatest challenges for development projects. The quality and sustainability of these programs become
even more critical when dealing with rural communities which are institutionally weaker and more difficult
to reach. FNCV was very successful in reaching the poorest municipios when it introduced the first
cofinancing system in 1989 (before 1989 FNCV had financed the works without requiring any
contribution from the beneficiaries). Some key elements of that success include: (a) a clear purpose (ie.,
training municipios in the procedures to access the cofinancing system) well understood by the
participating municipalities. The municipios immediately connected the relevance of the future investments
with the benefits that those investments were going to bring about; (b) continuity. The program was
designed centrally but carried out in a decentralized manner. FNCV's Regional Offices remained there
close to the municipios to work together in identifying candidate subprojects, adopting the cofinancing
arrangements, and preparing the necessary studies (the latter a task most generally undertaken by FNCV
through consultants); (c) trust. FNCV was an agency with recognized prestige and a proven record for
working together with the poorest nuniclpios; and (d) demand-driven. The municipios showed great
interest in gaining access to a cofinancing system, which was flexible enough to accommodate local
conditions. The requests exceeded FNCV capacity to undertake projects. The program gave the
opportunity for FNCV and the municipios involved to learn by doing while motivating participation by
showing results.
61.   Achieving similar results in long term institutional building programs is more difficult, particularly
because some of the above elements may not be evident. Sustainable development of capacity at the local
level is possible when there is effective demand by local administrations. The new national cofinancing
system may play a role in mobilizing such demand, but is not as flexible to respond to the enornous
diversity of regional and local conditions in Colombia, as the previous more limited efforts were.
62.   However, the effectiveness and the prospects for sustainability of these programs can be increased
by: (a) promoting the dissemination of good practices and use of strategic partnerships. Examples of "best
practices" and of solutions adopted by municipios, which are clearly successful but yet perceived as at
reach by other municipios, carry strong motivation, thus becoming an effective way of speeding up the
development of local capacity. Several municipios of varying size (eg., Manizales, Libano, La Mesa,
Ipiales) increased the coverage and efficiency in delivering road maintenance services by creating
associations of municipios to share road maintenance equipment, contract out the services or establish
twinning arrangements; (b) designing flexible programs, tailored to local or regional demands and provided
in a decentralized manner. INVIAS and MOT are launching an institutional program that rather than



- 19 -
following a rigid agenda, would finance organization and management consultancies in those departments
that request the assistance, with the agenda defined mostly by the benefited department. Though it is too
early to assess the outcome of this initiative, it is interesting to note that the strategy was conceived after
realizing the little impact of more traditional approaches; and (c) ensuring sustained commitment while
seeking progressive results. Though it is generally accepted that building institutional capacity is a long
term effort, this is often neglected in practice when the objectives of such programs are set in a manner that
is not consistent with the time needed to produce the desired changes. More attention should be devoted to
defining an appropriate sequence for the interventions needed (which may go beyond the scope of one
project) and setting progressive benchmarks. The use of these benchmarks will help focus the programs on
a few prioritized goals, facilitate the assessment of progress and outcome, and increase motivation by
showing early results. However, the difficulty of tailoring both, sequence and benchmarks, to the variety of
local conditions prevailing in the country (or even a region of the country) cannot be ignored; in particular,
the cultural, social, and political factors that usually remain outside the control of a project but have
significant impact, call for flexibility in the design. This is an area where more research is needed.
63.    The cofinancing arrangements used by FNCV increased ownership and responsiveness to local
needs. Through this arrangements FNCV also stressed that the responsibility for road maintenance relied
on the local governments. The agreements made this very clear, and specifically those for routine
maintenance required that local movements provide the labor needed. On the other hand, the cofinancing
system to a certain extent implied accepting the priorities defined by the local governments. With so many
roads impassable and severe budget constraints, it is understandable that mayors would give preference to
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of those roads (even if not part of FNCV's road network) over
routine maintenance. They will likely step in and undertake corrective works when the trafficability is seen
at risk. Under these circumstances, it is difficult to conclude whether such behavior reflects lack of local
capacity or rather response to local priorities.
64.    The experience of FNCV shows how difficult it is to move municipalities towards a "continuous"
maintenance culture, in spite of the increased "ownership" that could be expected from the cofinancing
system. The project suggests some elements that may help local governments to move to a culture of
maintenance: (a) some previous investment is needed to improve the condition of the roads to a condition in
which they are maintainable; (b) the effectiveness of routine maintenance becomes a demonstrated reality to
both road users and local authorities only after having delivered the services for a reasonable period of
time. Using locally acceptable schemes ensures the program will not be discontinued (the formation of
microenterprises and road maintenance cooperatives at the local level, now supported by FNCV, is an
effective solution on both technical and social grounds with its potential for building a local lobby for
continued maintenance); (c) an affordable mechanism of road user charges secures a stable flow of funds
for this purpose. While the use of community-based organizations or microenterprises is an affordable
solution for the municipios, their sustainability requires prompt payment; (d) those with a vested interest in
good roads evaluate the results and exercise their voice before the local authorities. Local participation in
screening and identification of subprojects, favored by FNCV, should also be expanded to include decisions
regarding maintenance. In many of the municipios that worked with FNCV, PNR (through the Juntas de
Accion Comunal) played an important positive role in fostering participation in rural areas and among poor
communities, organizing formerly disenfranchised groups and helping them voice demands and acquire a
space in the local political debate. FNCV implemented several years ago the peon caminero or lengthmen
program to maintain road stretches about 4 km long and give local employment. The program failed
because local authorities became excessively clientelistic at the time of awarding the petty contracts, thus
creating rivalries and distrust. Former FNCV staff believe that the Juntas can play a key role in developing



- 20 -
these local initiatives for the most simple works in the remote "veredas" where the sustainability of
microenterprises may be more difficult.
65.   Aiming at eventually achieving full-fledged transfer of road maintenance responsibilities to local
governments, FNCV together with the local administrations involved in the project were required to draw
up action programs with time-bound targets. In practice, these action programs were necessarily limited
because FNCV had no control over other key elements of the decentralization agenda, in particular the
financing mechanisms. Since the primary function of the Regional Offices was to keep the work program,
going, particularly the force account program, institutional building was frequently a second priority. This
may improve now, with the elimination of the force account program, the emphasis on the provision of
technical assistance services under the reorganized FNCV, and a better understanding of the financing
mechanisms in the decentralization agenda.



- 21 -
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial      Partial      Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                               1'
Sector policies                                                                               l
Financial objectives                                                                          l
Institutional development
Physical objectives                                                                           l
Poverty reduction                                                                             l
Gender concerns                                                                               I
Other social objectives                                                                       l
Environmental objectives                                                             I
Public sector management
Private sector development                                                           I
C. Bank Performance                 Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                                                                                  I
Supervision                                                                                l
D. Borrower performance             Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                                                l
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome              Highly       Marginally                      Highly
SaSatisfacry   Satisfacto    Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
I 



- 22 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose                      Year of      Status
approal
Preceeding Operations
Rural Roads Sector
l.First Rural Roads  Support FNCV's 1981-84 Program for rural  March 1981    Completed
Project, Ln. 1966-CO   roads construction and rehabilitate and improve       June 1986
FNCV's managerial performance
2.Rural Transport Sector Support 1982-92 Investment and Maintenance   July 1982  Completed
Project, Ln. 2668-CO   Program and improve FNCV's institutional              Dec 1992
efficiency
Agriculture Sector
3. Second Integrated  Included financing for construction of about    June 1982  Completed
Rural Development    700 km of rural roads and improvement of 400            June 1990
Project, Ln. 2174-CO   km. FNCV carried out the rural roads
component for the Integrated Rural
Development Fund (DRI)
Highways Sector
4.First Highway Sector   Upgrade the transport system, adjust sector  April 1982  Completed
Project, Ln. 2121-CO   policies, strengthen MOPT's highway                   Dec 1988
management capacity
5.Second National     Improve MOPT's internal efficiency, implement October 1987   Completed
Highways Sector      policy reforms in the transport sector and              Dec 1993
Project, Ln. 2829-CO   upgrade the condition of the highway network
Following Operations
Highways Sector
6.Third National Roads  Reduce cost of transport, improve project  March 1992    In progress
Sector Project, Ln.  preparation capacity within MOPT, and
3453-CO              implement a rolling five year investment
program
Agriculture Sector
7.Rural Development    Includes financing for construction of about 800  July 1990  In progress
Investment Program,   km of roads, improvement of about 516 km,
Ln. 3250-CO          under the road component for the Integrated
Rural Development Fund (DRI)
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project. A limit of 10 years is observed when listing
preceeding operations



- 23 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                           Date planned                           Date actual
Identification                                                                            January 1988                          January1988
................ .                      .....     ..    ....................................  ............ .........................    ....................... ................ .....
Pre paration (preappraisal)                                                                 May 1988                              June 1988
Appraisal                                          .... ,November 1988                                                         Febmary 1989
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....PP  ,,....                            ...   ........................................... .............. . .................................
Negotiations                                                                       ...    . April 1989                         October 1989
Letter of development polcy (if applicable)                                                      n.a.                                  n.a
P            oApr d pscation,                                                                June 1989                       January 16, 1990
[Sgig....... ....   ........           ......           ..............       ......................... ..................... .... ............ ~ .1.1 ,,.    ,,,,.,  .,,MachX 990
Effectiveness                                                                             Jan ay 1990                           June 6, 1 990
ffidterm review~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                           .................. b!4,,,,...........................,,,,,,,,,,,, n  . .......................................................
F ~irst '.. rn"c..h"e ...r"ele'..asec . ("if ..a"p ..p"l i c"able") ......................       n.a.                                  n.a
Midterm review (ifapplicabl)                                                                     n.a.                                  n.a
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)                                               n.a.                                  n.a
.........................................  .........   .......   ..... ........  .....................  ...........................................     ..........................................-1
Projectcompletion                                                                     December 31, 1994                    December 31, 1995
~~~~~~~~~~~~..............   .......       ....................  ..............  ..........   ........................................   .........   .... ......................................................
Loan closing                                                                          December 31, 1995                    December 31, 1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursement
FY                             90               91              92             93              94              95               96
Appraisal Estimate                                     9,1           16,6            24,3            32,0            39,7             47,4            55,0
Appraisal Revised Estimate                             9,1            16,6           24,3           32,00            39,8            54,0             55,0
Actual                                                    0            6,5            13,8           25,8            41,8            50,6             55,0
Actual as % of Estimate                                   0         39,2 |    56,8                   80,6          105,3           106,8           100,0
Actual as % of Revised    0:o                                        39,2            56,8            80,6           105,0            93,7           100,0
Date of final disbursement                    Ma 9, 1996 "
21US$13,865.71 remaining undisbursed were canceled on that date



- 24 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L Key implementation Indicators in SAR        Appraisal         Revised         Actual
President's Report                                                                      I
A. FNCV's Sector Plan Physical Targets
(1990-1995)
1. Civil Works
- Construction of rural roads (km)                  939            1,241           1,759
- Construction of canals (km)                         2                0              0
- Construction/improvement of bridges (m)         1,120            1,620           1,576
- Improvement of rural roads (km)                 1,646            2,386           3,181
- Periodic maintenance of rural roads (km)        4,378            6,347          10,699
- Routine maintenance of rural roads (km)        26,002           28,259          17,893
- Emergency maintenance of rural roads (km)         521              521            233
2. Equipment Rehabilitation and Acquisition
of Spare Parts
- Repair of FNCV's road maintenance fleet  no targets                     6 motograders
and purchase of a stock of fast consumming  defined                     25 front loaders
spare parts                                                              1 mtce. unit
spare parts
B. Loan 3157-CO Physical Targets
(1990-1995)
1. Civil Works
- Construction of rural roads (km)                  800              645            776
- Construction of canals (km)                         2                -               -
- Construction/improvement of bridges (m)         1,120            1,620           1,134
- Improvement of rural roads (km)                  1,300           1,200           1,053
- Periodic maintenance of rural roads (km)        2,250            1,651           1,239
- Routine maintenance of rural roads (km)                                               l
- Emergency maintenance of rural roads (km)
2. Equipment Rehabilitation and Acquisition
of Spare Parts
- Repair of FNCV's road maintenance fleet  no targets                       see above
and purchase of a stock of fast consumming  defined
spare  parts                                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _  _ _ _  _



- 25 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(not applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at         Status               Impact of study
appraisalUredefined
Road-funding  The two main objectives defined in the  Completed  * Identified the gaps in cost recovery at
Strategies   SAR are (a) to review the present   with delay    the national level (to support the
structure and sources of funding                 modernization of the national network)
expenditures in the rural road subsector,        and the subnational levels (about 15% of
and (b) to evaluate and recommend                projected needs).
strategies to define, revise and create        * Recommended changes in the stucture
funding sources and mechanisms for               of road user charges to better reflect
obtaining and collecting revenues                marginal pricing and a strategy for its
sufficient to fully finance road                 gradual implementation;
expenditures.                                  * Identified inbalances between
Upon approval of the Transport Law of            responsibilities and funding sources at
1993, the scope of the study was                subnational level, not addressed by the
expanded to include the analysis of road         Road Cofinancing Fund.
user charges at the three administrative       * As a result, the need for more autonomy
levels.                                          at national level and a stable flow of
funds for maintenance at the three levels
is gaining support among INVIAS,
MOT and DNP (this is being explored
under a follow-on phase funded through
Loan 3453-CO).



- 26 -
Table 8A: Project Costs (1)
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate
Category                        (USSM)                     (US$M)
Local    Loan    Total    Local   Loan(2)   Total
1. Civil works                          32.3     48.3     80.6     32.9     49.4     82.3
Road construction and improvement     26.1     39.0    65.1      26.8     40.2     67.0
works (roads and bridges)
Road maintenance                       6.2      9.3     15.5      6.1      9.2     15.3
2. Equipment repairs & Spare parts       0.4      1.0      1.4      0.2      0.9       1.1
3. Engineering services                  5.5      5.2     11.4      5.6      4.6      10.3
Road design and supervision            5.1      4.8     10.6      5.5      4.5     10.1
Technical assistance                  0.4       0.4     0.4       0.1      0.1      0.2
4. Trainig activities                    0.5      0.5      1.0      0.1      0.1      0.2
Total                    38.7     55.0     94.4     38.8     55.0    93.8
(1) Project costs for investments and services financed under the Loan
(2) The total amount disbursed was US$54.986 million; cancellation not reflected due to rounding
Table 8B: Project Financing(')
Appraisal estimate     |           Actual
(USSM)            I           (US$M)
Source              Local   Foreign                Local    Foreign
l___________________________   Costs      Costs     Total     Costs     Costs     Total
IBRD (2)                                               55.0                           55.0
FNCV - Domestic contribution                           38.7                          38.8
(through national budget and                                                             l
cofinancing resources)                                                                   l
Total                                      94.4                          93.8
(1) Project costs for investments and services financed under the Loan
(2) The total amount disbursed was USS54.986 million; cancellation not reflected due to rounding



- 27 -
Table 9: Economic Cost and Benefits
(Based on an ex-post evaluation of a sample of 18 subprojects performed by FNCV)
Road               Type of    Length (krn)    Subproject Costs (ColSm)     NPV (Col$m)               B/C Ratio
Subproject             Work    Plan   Actual       Plan       Actual       Appr.      Ex-post      Appr.       Ex-post
Remolino-Altamira                  C          7.0    10.6       550.6      1,010.1      213.6         86.0        1.42        1.08
Maravillas-El Salado-Valle del Chilli    C    8.0     5.7       570.1       634.5         n.a.        56.6                    1.07
El Pescado-La Cumbre               C         29.6    14.6       428.2       248.6       233.1      1,182.0        1.44        4.46
Villanueva-La Culebrera            C        21.3    10.9       1,064.3      450.9       527.2        62.5         1.55        1.15
Cristalina Alta-La Galaxia         C         10.0     4.2       719.4       456.2       945.9       266.9         2.42        1.60
Versalles-Playa Cotiza             C          7.0    15.4       760.4       312.1       607.1       290.2         2.05        1.58
La Clara-La Trina-Gaspar           C          9.0     5.1       766.0       186.2       360.7        61.2         1.56        1.29
Dinde-El Play6n                    C         26.5    18.4      1,556.3      574.8       399.7        262.9        1.37        1.33
Avispero-Horizonte                 C         13.5     9.0      1,359.0      301.7      1,508.3       164.4        2.51        1.51
Palmar-Platanares                  C          5.0     5.5       428.7       407.2       420.6      1,400.0        2.12        4.28
San Pedro Uraba-Valencia           M          5.5     4.4     1,398.6       697.9       382.5       433.8         1.21        1.32
Moffitos-S. Bernardo del Viento    M         21.0    13.4       845.1       863.2       510.4        314.0        1.39        1.16
S. Francisco-Portachuelo-Minchoy   M          4.5     3.3       402.2       409.2       523.5        126.4        2.41        1.33
S. Antonio-Ramiriquiri-Fatima      M         31.5    18.1     1,009.3       456.2       791.2       217.2         1.30        1.48
S. Nicolas-Honduras Bajo           M          5.0     4.1       332.3       215.2       145.1        187.2        1.47        2.95
La Colonia-Alto Altamizal          M          7.0    19.9       568.7       329.0       363.0        843.6        1.89        3.65
Sta. Cruz-Socavones(')             M          3.4     0.2       149.5        18.5       315.2       605.7         2.60        4.17
Riejo Viejo-Cruce Ramal Morosi     M         30.0    16.3      2,575.4     1,131.2     1,796.0       165.6        1.90        1.16
Total                          244.8   179.1    15,484,0      8,702.6    10,043.1     6,726.1           -
Costs and NPV in millions of Colombian pesos of 1996.
'" Investments under this subproject were reduced to building a bridge and its access.



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Text   Covenant Status    Original    Revised              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section    Type            Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date        Date
LOAN       2.02 (b)  1         C       08/12/89                Open and maintain in dollars a special
account in Banco de la Republica
3.01 (b)  5,12     C                               Prepare and furnish to the bank an annual  Investments in 1994-1995 aimed at
road investments and maintenance     completing all on-going subprojects
program for the immediate following year  started either under Ln. 2668-CO or
3157-CO.
3.03 (a)  5,12     CD                              Furnish to the Bank for approval the  Until 1993, the training programs
content of the training programs under the  gave priority to strengthening
project and the schedule for their    FNCV's technical capacity at both
implementation                       Headquarters and Regional Offices,
3.03 (b)  5,12     C                               select the beneficiaries of such training  building up capacity at local level for
programs in accordance with criteria  design, supervision and maintenance
satisfactory to the Bank;            of road projects, and assisting local
3.03 (c)  5,12     C                               exchange views with the Bank on the   governments access the cofinancing
training programs to be carried out in the   system. From 1994 on, the Ministry
following calendar year              of Transport together with
3.03 (d)  5,12     C                               furnish to the Bank a report on the results  FINDETER, assumed responsibility
of each of such training programs and the  for the training programs. The
benefits derived from them           programs are summarized in
supervision and progress reports.
3.04 (a)  5,12     CP                              Enter into agreements satisfactory to the    The agreements spell out the list of
Bank with the administrative units    roads selected for cofinancing and the
participating in the execution of the 1990-  obligations assumed by the
93 Rural Roads Program               participating municipio regarding
cofinancing and future maintenance.
3.05     9         C                               Furnish to the Bank a report on: a)
progress made in the execution of the
project; b) the achievement of the
objectives of the 1990-93 Rural Roads
Program as of the preceding semester
ending December 31 and June 30,



- 29 -
Agreement   Text   Covenant Status    Original    Revised            Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section    Type           Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
respectively
3.06 (a)  5,12     C                              Exchange views with the Bank, and where  Agreements with MOPT and DNP to
appropriate with MOPT and DNP on (i)   (1) update the road functional
progress in the implementation of the  classification, (2) prepare terms of
project; (ii) adequacy of the evaluation    reference for the road funding study,
criteria (iii) progress in the execution of    and from 1993 on, (3) define suitable
action programs (iv) value and justification financing and institutional
of road works                       mechanisms to replace FNCV, and
3.06 (b)  5,12     CP                             prepare action plans to improve its  (4) provide technical assistance to
performance and resolve any outstanding   departments and municipios.
problems.                            Several action programs were agreed
3.06 (c)  5,12     CP                             carry out such plans in a manner and  with FNCV to improve its accounting
according to timetables satisfactory to the   and internal control, and clear the
Bank                                 deficiencies pointed out by CGR in its
audit reports. Though some progress
was made, the results fell short of
expectations.
3.08 (a)  12       CD                             Carry out the study included in Part E of   The study was reformulated to
the project under terms of reference  include an analysis of the entire
satisfactory to the Bank;           system of road user charges
3.08 (b)  12       C                              furnish to the Bank the recommendations   The conclusions were discussed
of such study;                      among DNP, MOT and INVIAS.
3.08 (c)  12       C                              afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to Need for more autonomy and a stable
conunent on such recommendations;   flow of funds from user charges is
gaining support.
3.08 (d)  12       C                              assist the Guarantor in the preparation and  Definition of action plan still pending
execution of the action program referred to  DNP, MOPT and INVIAS are
in Section 3.01 (b) of the Guarantee  revising the mechanisms for
Agreement.                          financing roads
5.01 (a)  1        CP                             Borrower to:                         An action plan has been agreed
maintain records and accounts adequate to  between FNCV and the Contraloria
reflect in accordance with sound    de la Reptiblica to correct the
accounting practices its operations and  deficiencies that led to an adverse
financial condition including separate  opinion on FNCV's financial



- 30 -
Agreement   Text   Covenant Status    Original    Revised                Description of Covenant                     Comments
Section    Type             Fulfilment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
records and accounts to reflect the    statements and the project's accounts.
resources and expenditures in respect of the
project
5.01 (b)  1         CD                               have its records, accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited
5.01 (b)  1         CD                               furnish to the Bank certified copies of its   The audit reports for 1994 and 1995
financial statements and the report of such  were submitted to the Bank in
audit by said auditors;                October 1995, and September 1996,
respectively
Guarantee   3.01 (a)  12        CD       12/31/90                through DNP, (i) assist the borrower in    DNP delayed preparation of terms of
preparaing the terms of reference for, and   reference (in part due to the reform in
execution and supervision, of the study  progress). The draft final report of
included under Part E of the project; and   the Study was issued in February
(ii) exchange views with the Bank and the   1995.
Borrower on the recommendations of such
study.
3.01 (b)  12        NC                               prepare an action program, satisfactory to  Action plan under preparation
the Bank, based on the recommendations   (through second phase of study
and findings of such study;            funded under Ln. 3453-CO).
3.01 (c)  12        NYD                              carry out such action program in a manner
and according to a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank.                             _
3.02 (a)  12        C       07/31/90                 Through MOPT
complete an inventory of all public roads in
_ _ ~~~~~Colombia other than national highways
3.02 (b)  12        C        10/31/90                prepare and furnish to the Bank a       The functional classification is being
functional jurisdictional classification for   revised and updated in line with the
such roads, satisfactory to the Bank   provisions of the Transport Law
_________  ________  ________  ________   ____________________approved  in  December  1993.
3.02 (c)  12        CP      01/31/91                 take all action necessary to put in full force  Transfer of roads to departments in
and effect such classification         progress: all secondary roads and
about 7,000 km of rural roads
formerly under FNCV have already
been transferred.



- 31 -
Status:
C      = Complied with                                          SOON  = Compliance Expected in Reasonable Short Time
CD    = Compliance after Delay                                  CP    = Complied with Partially
NC    = Not Complied with                                       NYD   = Not Yet Due
Key Covenant Types                                              7      = Involuntary resettlement
1     = Accounting/audit                                        8      = Indigenous people
2      = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiarires    9  = Monitoring, review and reporting
3      = Flow and utilization of project funds                  10     = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4      = Counterpart funding                                    11     = Sectoral or coss-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5      = Management aspects of the project                      12     = Sectoral or coss-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6      = Environmental covenants                                13     = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned                      Revised                         Actual
project cycle            Weeks           US$          Weeks          US$            Weeks              US$
|  Through appraisal                                                                         11.0             23,170
|  Appraisal-Board                                 .                                        20.7             46,250
[  Board-effectiveness_                             .           _                             0.4               1,017
|   Supervision                                                                           58.6            174,443
Completion                                                                                 4.6              6.887
Total                                                       .                          95.37            251,767



- 32 -
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions
l  Specialized          Performance rating       I
Stage of project cycle    Month/    Number of  Days in field    staff skills    Implementation    Development  Types of problems
l_________________      year       persons                  represented        status         Objectives
Through appraisal    Jan-88    2           5             TE, HE
Jun-88    2           12           TE, HE
l ________________     Feb-89    2           12            TE, HE
Appraisal trough    Apr-89    2           7             TE, HE
board approval      Jul-89    2           7            TE, HE
Board approval
Through effectiveness                                    _                _                                __.
Supervision       Nov-90    2           10            HE, ES                 I               1         ENV
Sep-91    1           7            HE                     1                1         AF
Jul-92    1          11            FA                     1                1         STD
Jan-93    1           5            HE                     1                1         CLC
Mar-93    1           11           HE, TE                 2                1         STD
Aug-93    2           16           HE, FA                 2                1         CLC, PROC, STD
Feb-94    2           11           HE, FA                 2                2         CLC, PM
Sep-94    2           10           HE, FA                 S                S         CLC, PM
Mar-95    2           13           HE, FA                 S                S         PM
Nov-95    2           7                                   U                U         CLC, PM, AF, ENV
Completion        Nov-95    2           7             HE, FA                U                U         CLC, PM, AF, ENV
Mar-96    3          2            HE, TE, FA             S                S         PM
Total               11 missions       146                                    _          _
Staff Skills                                     Type of problems
TE    = Transport Economist                      AF    = Availability of funds
HE    = Highway Engineer                         PM      = Project Management Performance
FA     = Financial Analyst                        CLC   = Compilance with Legal Covenants (financial covenants)
ES     = Environmental Specialist                 STD   = Study delayed
ENV   = Environmental control
PROC  = Procurement delayed



Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire






Annex 1
Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Caminos Rurales
AyudaMemoriaNoviembre 1995 -Pag 1 de 10
COLOMBIA
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
SEGUNDO PROYECTO SECTORIAL DE CAMINOS RURALES (PRESTAMO 3157-CO)
AYUDA MEMORIA
1.    Una misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por los Sres. Jose Luis Irigoyen y Mauricio
Cuellar visit6 Colombia del 15 al 21 de noviembre de 1995 con el fin de supervisar el progreso en
la implementaci6n del proyecto de la referencia. La rnisi6n desea expresar su agradecimiento al
Liquidador del Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales (FNCV), funcionarios del Ministerio de
Transporte (MT), FNCV, Departamento Nacional de Planeacion (DNP) y Contraloria General de
la Republica (CGR) por la colaboraci6n que le brindaron durante su visita.
2.    El Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Caminos Rurales se encuentra muy pr6ximo a su
terminaci6n el 31 de diciembre de 1995, fecha de cierre del prestamo. La evaluaci6n realizada
por la misi6n se centra principalmente en cuatro aspectos: i) situaci6n institucional actual de
FNCV y avance en la correcci6n de las deficiencias contables, financieras y de control interno
sefialadas por la CGR en sus informes de auditoria; ii) el progreso en la ejecuci6n del proyecto y
en el logro de sus objetivos; iii) el establecimiento de los mecanismos que aseguren la
sostenibilidad de las inversiones y objetivos alcanzados por el proyecto; y iv) las tareas a realizar
por FNCV para preparar el "Infonne sobre terminacion de la implementacion del Proyecto",
incluyendo un plan operacional para mantenimiento de los caminos rehabilitados y mejorados bajo
el proyecto. La presente ayuda memoria resume las conclusiones de la misi6n y los acuerdos
alcanzados con FNCV en cada uno de dichos aspectos.
Situacion institucional de FNCV y correccion deficiencias senaladas por la CGR
3.    Situaci6n de FNCV. La misi6n reconoce el gran esfuerzo que viene realizando la
instituci6n por mantener su capacidad operativa para ejecutar el proyecto, la cual esta
marcadamente debilitada por el proceso de liquidacion mandado por el Decreto 2171 de
diciembre de 1992. FNCV se encuentra actualmente reducido a una dotacion de
aproximadamente 140 funcionarios (de alrededor de 1600 antes de la liquidaci6n) y nueve
regionales localizadas en los departamentos de Bolivar, Boyaca, CaquetA, Cordova, Narinio,
Santander, Meta, Choco y Putumayo. En algunas areas se ha procurado mitigar la perdida de
capacidad operativa originada por la salida de personal experimentado mediante contrataciones
individuales de corto plazo, pero son notorios por su importancia para la adecuada terminaci6n
del proyecto el debilitamiento de la Oficina de Planeaci6n (se corre el riesgo de perder los
modelos de evaluaci6n socio-econ6mica desarrollados por FNCV) y de los sistemas de
seguimniento de proyectos, y el desmantelamiento de la Unidad Ambiental (conformada por
consultores a quienes se vencieron los respectivos contratos).



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Caminos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - Pag 2 de 10
4.    En este sentido, misiones anteriores han venido recomendado (1) hacer un mayor uso de la
contrataci6n de firmas consultoras de manera de delegar algunas de las funciones de la
administraci6n, (2) asegurar la continuidad de los sistemas de informaci6n y seguimiento para la
administracion de contratos, (3) evitar la atomizacion de recursos en un gran numero de
subproyectos --como se observa en el presupuesto para 1995- lo cual hace mas dificil la
adecuada gesti6n de las obras, y (4) fortalecer las secciones de contabilidad y auditoria
operacional de manera de llevar a cabo adecuadamente la liquidacion. La suspensi6n del proceso
de liquidaci6n (siguiente parrafo) en junio pasado ha introducido mas incertidumbre, pero
constituye una raz6n mas para introducir medidas correctivas en (1) a (3) y continuar las medidas
de fortalecimiento introducidas respecto a (4).
5.    La Ley 188-95 - Plan Nacional de Desarrollo e Inversiones 1995-1998, sancionada el 5
de junio pasado, suspendi6 el proceso de liquidaci6n del FNCV (Articulo 36, incisos 3 y 40) hasta
tanto los entes territoriales demuestren que pueden asumir las funciones atinentes a la
construcci6n, conservaci6n y mantenimiento de la red vial terciaria. La ley establece un plazo de
6 meses para que se reglamente la reorganizaci6n del FNCV sin perjuicio del proceso de
decentralizacion previsto en la Constitucion. La mision solicito a FNCV que haga llegar al Banco
una copia del Decreto reglamentario tanto pronto se emita este, asi como el plan estrategico
enunciando la rnisi6n, objetivos y pasos a seguir por FNCV para implementar el mismo.
6.    Auditoria de FNCV y del Proyecto. La misi6n se reuni6 con funcionarios de la
Subdirecci6n Administrativa y Financiera y de la CGR con el fin de analizar las observaciones
formuladas por la CGR en el informe de auditoria al control interno de la entidad, los estados
financieros de la entidad y del proyecto al 31 de diciembre de 1994, informe que fue presentado al
Banco en octubre pasado. La misi6n desea destacar la calidad del informe preparado por la CGR,
si bien hace notar la tardia presentaci6n del rnismo: casi 6 meses mas tarde que la fecha
establecida en el Convenio de Prestamo (30 abril).
7.    Las deficiencias observadas Ilevaron a la CGR a dar una opini6n adversa sobre los estados
financieros y las cuentas del proyecto, y a una opini6n no calificada sobre la cuenta especial y uso
de SOEs. Durante el desarrollo de la auditoria efectuada, la CGR observ6 que FNCV "ha puesto
en practica algunas recomendaciones formuladas en informes de control financiero de afnos
anteriores; no obstante, la labor adelantada en este sentido no ha sido suficientemente diligente y
eficiente, toda vez que el impacto de las deficiencias no corregidas, conjuntamente con las
detectadas en el presente ejercicio, en nuestro criterio, afectan la presentaci6n razonable de los
estados financieros bajo examen y el buen desempefno institucional." Si bien ha habido progresos
--la contabilidad se encuentra mucho mas avanzada-- el resultado de los esfuerzos realizados en
1994 para corregir las deficiencias ha sido mas pobre que el esperado (ver ayuda memoria de
marzo 7 de 1995). El dictamen de la CGR pone a FNCV en una situaci6n de incumplimiento con
las clausulas financieras del Convenio de Prestamo 3157-CO, que debe ser neceariamente
corregida antes de la termninaci6n del proyecto.
8.    Reconociendo la gravedad de estos dictarmenes, la urgencia de que FNCV corriga todas
las deficiencias senialadas en los respectivos dictarmenes para la presentaci6n del informe de
auditoria correspondiente al ejercicio 1995, y que dicho informe pueda ser presentado con mayor



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Carninos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - P5ag 3 de 10
antelacion, se acord6 el siguiente plan de acci6n: i) FNCV antes del 30 de noviembre dara
respuesta a las observaciones de los dictarmenes correspondientes a los estados financieros y
cuentas del proyecto, asi como a la observaci6n relativa al prestamo 2668-CO incluida en el
capitulo sobre Control Interno del informe. La respuesta indicara claramente cuales
observaciones se han corregido, cuales estin pendientes y, de ser posible, de que manera se piensa
corregirlas; ii) CGR llevara a cabo la auditoria interina preliminar entre el 20 de noviembre y el 20
de diciembre pr6ximos, y suministrari al trrmino de este periodo una Carta de Gerencia, con los
comentarios y observaciones resultantes de esta evaluaci6n preliminar; iii) FNCV revisara la Carta
de Gerencia y preparari antes del 20 de enero de 1996 una respuesta aclaratoria con la posici6n
de FNCV respecto a las observaciones y las acciones tomadas o a tomar (quien las ejecutari y
cuando). Una copia de esta respuesta sera suministrada a la Representaci6n del Banco en
Colombia antes de fin de enero; iv) FNCV presentara a la CGR antes del 28 de febrero 1996 los
estados financieros cerrados al 31 de diciembre de 1995; y v) CGR completara y presentara al
Banco el informe de auditoria correspondiente al ejercicio 1995 no mas tarde del 30 de junio
1996.
9.    La misi6n solicito a la Direcci6n de FNCV que se asigne primera prioridad a este esfuerzo,
dotando a la Subdirecci6n Administrativa y Financiera de los medios necesarios para llevar a cabo
las tareas arriba indicadas de acuerdo con el cronograma establecido. El Banco efectuara una
evaluaci6n del progreso en febrero pr6ximo.
Progreso en la ejecucion del Proyecto
10.   Situaci6n actual del Proyecto. La misi6n revis6 con funcionarios de FNCV el progreso
en la ejecuci6n de los diversos componentes del Proyecto. El Anexo 1 resume la situaci6n actual
al 31 de octubre de 1995, en terminos de metas fisicas alcanzadas, ejecuci6n financiera y
desembolsos con cargo al prestamo.
11.   Ejecucion fisica. Los Cuadros 1.1 y 1.2 resumen las metas fisicas alcanzadas bajo el
Programa de Inversion y Mantenimiento 1990-1995 y el Segundo Proyecto Sectorial-Pr6stamo
3157-CO respectivamente. Al 31 de octubre 1995 se alcanzaron las siguientes metas de los
totales planeados al aprobar el prestamo (o a la reprogramaci6n de este en 1990): t10% en
construcci6n, o7/o en mejoramiento, 151% (76% respecto a reprogramacion) en mantenimiento
periodico, y 133% (81% respecto reprogramacion) en construccion de puentes y pontones. La
ejecucion durante 1995 se centr6 fundamentalmente en la ejecuci6n de los contratos adjudicados
en 1994. No se ejecutara la totalidad de la inversi6n contratada ni se alcanzaran la totalidad de las
metas planeadas para construccion y mejoramiento debido a las dificultades que experimentan
algunos contratos por efecto de (1) incumplimiento del contratista (lo que ha llevado a declarar la
caducidad de los mismos), (2) suspensi6n de las obras por observaciones de indole ambiental, (3)
retrasos en las obras debido a la crudeza del invierno (febrero-noviembre), y (4) observaciones de
la CGR a algunos Convenios Interadministrativos que sirvieron de base para constituir reservas
presupuestales de 1994.
12.   Ejecuci6n financiera-Desembolsos. Por las razones arriba expuestas, la ejecuci6n
financiera de los recursos netos del prestamo durante 1995 ha sido relativamente pobre. Una



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Camninos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - Pig 4 de 10
evaluaci6n de las vigencias 1994 en ejecuci6n con cargo al prestamo (recursos del Credito 3157-
CO exclusivamente) muestra que del total de aproximnadamente US$6.4 millones comprometidos
para ejecutar en 1995, se han ejecutado al 31 de octubre aproximademente US$3.5 millones o
53.8 porciento; quedan por ejecutar aproximadamente US$2.9 millones, de los cuales
aproxirnadamente US$1 mnillon se podra concretar antes del 31 de diciembre.
13.   Al 9 de noviembre de 1995 se ha desembolsado US$52.1 millones o 94.8 porciento del
prestamo, de los cuales US$0.788 millones corresponden al dep6sito en la Cuenta Especial aun
pendiente porjustificar. El Cuadro 1.3 muestra los desembolsos por categorias a la fecha,
mientras que el Cuadro 1.4 la propuesta final para reasignaci6n de fondos a las distintas categorias
hasta la terminaci6n del pr6stamo; los recursos bajo la Categoria 5-Fondos no asignados, y los
recursos remanentes bajo las Categorias 2-Rehabilitaci6n de equipos y 4-Capacitaci6n, se han
reasignado a las Categorias 1-Obras civiles y 3-Servicios de consultoria. El Banco enviara un fax
confirmando la autorizaci6n para la reasignaci6n propuesta. Siguiendo las practicas actuales, el
Banco continuark efectuando desembolsos mas alla de la fecha de cierTe del prestamo (31 de
diciembre 1995) para aquellas aplicaciones de desembolso recibidas en las oficinas del Banco
en Washington antes del 30 de abril de 1996 que correspondan a pagosya efectuados o debidos
por elFNCVa contratistas o consultores en concepto de obras ejecutadas o servicios de
consultoriaproporcionados antes del 31 de diciembre de 1995 (el Banco enviara una
comunicaci6n confirmando esta autorizaci6n antes de la fecha de cierre). Los fondos del
prestamo que quedaran aun por desembolsar luego del 30 de abril serAn cancelados.
14.   Con base en la revisi6n realizada con la Subdirecci6n Administrativa y Financiera se
estima que se podra desembolsar la totalidad del prestamo dentro del plazo previsto, si FNCV
procede con diligencia. Se encuentran pendientes por traniitar desembolsos por
aproximadamente US$2.6 mHlones que corresponden a pagos ya efectuados por la Subdirecci6n
Administrativa y Financiera; la Subdirecci6n enviara las aplicaciones respectivas antes del 30
noviembre. El remanente del prestamo porjustificar luego de tramitadas dichas aplicaciones,
aproximadamente US$1 millon, dependera del avance en los contratos en ejecuci6n (cuyo saldo
actual suma alrededor de US$2.9 millones) antes del 31 de diciembre de 1995.
15.   Programa por Administracion Directa. El Anexo 2 muestra las metas alcanzadas bajo
el programa de administraci6n directa que adelanta FNCV con recursos propios. La ejecuci6n
durante 1995 se limito a las 9 regionales aun operativas, cuya liquidaci6n originaimente
programada para el 30 dejunio qued6 suspendida por efecto de la ley 188-85. La flota de
equipos de FNCV no se ha reducido significativamente en tamanio (aun cuenta con 715 unidades
de las 1094 originales) pero si en capacidad operativa debido a la falta de operadores, al punto
que ya no parece una alternativa valida para atender el mantenimiento de la red a cargo de FNCV.
La Divisi6n de Mantenimiento, que fuera fortalecida durante el desarrolo de los prestamos 2668-
CO y 3157-CO fue desmantelada, dejando sin una supervision estrecha a este programa. La
productividad de este programa ha sido muy reducida, alcanzandose solamente 16%, 15%, 30% y
31% de las metas programadas para el primer semestre de 1995 en construcci6n, mejoramiento,
mantenimiento peri6dico y rutinario, respectivamente. La rnisi6n entiende que siguiendo la
tendencia en Colombia, el programa de administraci6n directa sera discontinuado.



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Carninos Rurales
Ayuda Memonia Noviembre 1995 - Pig 5 de 10
16.   Gestion Ambiental. La misi6n ve con gran preocupaci6n que la Unidad Ambiental de
FNCV fue desmantelada en octubre pasado, por cuanto no se renovaron los contratos con los
consultores individuales que se desempennaban en esta, y solicito a la Direccion que se tomen
medidas correctivas. La misi6n recibi6 un informe elaborado por la Divisi6n Tecnica que resume
la situacion actual y acciones adoptadas para el subproyecto San Jose-San Juanito. FNCV
present6 en junio pasado el "Plan de Recuperaci6n Ambiental y de Contingencia" para la zona
construida entre el Km 0-Kml4. La resoluci6n de MinAmbiente de octubre pasado convalida
este plan, manda fortalecer la interventoria ambiental, reforestar como minimo el doble del irea
afectada como medida de compensaci6n, y detener la construcci6n del camino mas allI del km 14
hasta tanto no se complete la implementaci6n del plan. Consecuentemente INCV ha dirigido
todos los recursos del contrato 25-0480-0-94 a corregir y rnitigar los dafnos ambientales de este
sector. La situaci6n de los subproyectos con planes de recuperaci6n pendientes se resume en el
Anexo 3.
17.   Programa de Asistencia Tecnica y Capacitaci6n. En marzo pasado se acord6 que los
esfuerzos de asistencia t6cnica y capacitaci6n a los entes territoriales serian canalizados a traves
del Ministerio de Transporte (Direcci6n de Infraestructura Vial-Subdirecci6n de Caminos
Vecinales) y el Fondo de Cofinanciaci6n de Vias bajo Findeter, en raz6n del marcado
debilitamiento de FNCV. El Anexo 4 muestra un resumen de los seminarios conducidos por MT
en 25 de los 32 departamentos, los cuales cubrieron basicamente las areas de (1) descentralizaci6n
de la red vial y sistema nacional de cofinanciaci6n, (2) identificaci6n, preparaci6n y evaluaci6n de
proyectos, (3) planificaci6n del transporte, y (4) preparaci6n de planes de manejo y gesti6n
ambiental. Asimismo, el Fondo de Cofinanciaci6n de Vias esta financiado la preaparaci6n de
planes de transporte en 31 departamentos. En general, los departamnentos han evaluado en forina
satisfactoria estas iniciativas, pero la magnitud de las necesidades de fortalecimniento requiere aun
mayores esfuerzos. La misi6n fue informada que continu'a la preparaci6n de un proyecto para
apoyo de las redes secundarias con financiamiento parcial del BID.
18.   A la fecha se desconoce la misi6n que desempefiara FNCV tras la suspensi6n del proceso
de liquidaci6n mandada por la Ley 188-95. Sin embargo, dado que el articulo correspondiente
suspende la liquidaci6n de FNCV hasta que los entes territoriales alcanzen capacidad operativa,
administrativa y financiera para la gestion de las vias transferidas, es muy posible que esta misi6n
comprenda de manera prioritaria el fortalecimiento institucional de los entes territoriales. Al
respecto, se acord6 que tan pronto se conozca el decreto de reorganizaci6n, FNCV y la Direcci6n
de Infraestructura Vial (1) efectuaran una cuidadosa evaluaci6n de las necesidades de
capacitaci6n de los entes territoriales y de la eventual responsabilidad que le competeria a FNCV
en este ambito, (2) definiran los objetivos y elementos de gesti6n a ser desarrollados a traves de la
asistencia tecnica y los indicadores que perrnitiran evaluar el progreso en el logro de dichos
objetivos, y (3) elaborarain antes del 15 de febrero de 1996 un plan para llevar a cabo el
fortalecimiento institucional, que asegure que las tareas correspondientes son Ilevadas a cabo de
manera coordinada y eficiente. Este plan forrnara parte del plan de operaciones del proyecto al
que se hace referencia en el parrafo 25.
Establecimiento de mecanismos para asegurar la sostenibilidad del Proyecto



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Caminos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - Pig 6 de 10
19.   Los beneficios derivados de la construccion y mejorarniento de la red de caminos vecinales
a cargo de FNCV -parte de los cuales son el resultado de tres prestamos del Banco Mundial-
pueden perderse si los departamentos y municipios no asumen en forma efectiva su
responsabilidad por el mantenimiento de las vias. La reorganizaci6n de FNCV tampoco evitara
6sto si no se desarrollan prioritariamente los mecanismos que aseguren el mantenimiento rutinario
y permanente de las vias a traves de la contrataci6n de estos servicios por FNCV y por los entes
territoriales involucrados. Los pasos que se han dado en este sentido a la fecha comprenden (1) la
transferencia de vias a los entes territoriales, (2) el establecimiento del sistema de cofinanciaci6n
(Fondo de Cofinanciacion de Vias), y (3) capacitacion a los entes territoriales (comentada en el
parrafo 18). Los progresos en los aspectos (1) y (2) y algunas reflexiones sobre la experiencia de
FNCV se resumen mas abajo.
20.   Transferencia de Vias. Del total de la red a cargo de FNCV a transferir a los entes
territoriales (22,977 km segun depuraci6n del inventario vial que comprende aquellos caminos
construidos por FNCV) se han transferido a la fecha 7,550 km o 33% (ver Cuadro 5.1),
distribuidos asi: 6,526 km en 1994 (de los 7,027 km programados), y 1,024 km en 1995 (de los
15,950 km programados). En apoyo de esta transferencia, los recursos distribuidos o en proceso
de distribuci6n suman alrededor de Col$24,3 80 millones. Estos recursos estan asignados a la
atenci6n de la red transferida; los recursos adicionales que se necesiten para atender dicha red en
el futuro seran trarnitados directamente bajo los programas normales financiados por el Fondo de
Cofinanciacion de Vias (FCV). El Cuadro 5.2 presenta una estimaci6n de los costos que ajuicio
de FNCV serian necesarios para acondicionar y mantener la red transferida (aproximadamente
Col$142,000 millones), estimaci6n que puede servir de base para establecer presupuestos anuales
(anualizando los costos estimados para mejorarniento y mantenimiento periodico). El proceso de
transferencia se detuvo tras suspender la liquidacion de FNCV. De acuerdo con el informe sobre
la transferencia de vias elaborado por FNCV, tres factores adicionales dificultan este proceso: i)
gran nuimero de entes territoriales cuestionan el inventario depurado objeto de la transferencia y
solicitan que al transferir recursos se tenga en cuenta la totalidad de la red sobre la cual FNCV
efectuaba trabajos en colaboraci6n con otras entidades (aproximadamente 33,000 km); ii) existe
preocupaci6n entre los departamentos sobre los horizontes de ingresos presupuestales que estaran
disponibles para continuar conservando y mejorando la red transferida; y iii) falta de experiencia
con el nuevo sistema de cofinanciaci6n e incluso desconocimiento de los procedirnientos
operacionales.
21.   Sistema de Cofinanciaci6n. El despegue del FCV esta insumiendo mas tiempo que el
anticipado. De un presupuesto de aproximadamente Col$74,000 millones en 1995 (incluyendo
los recursos en apoyo de la transferencia de vias) se han comprometido akrededor del 3 5%, si bien
se contempla finalizar convenios que permitirian comprometer alrededor del 80%. Los
desembolsos han sido reducidos. Los entes territoriales han tenido dificultades en preparar las
propuestas que son evaluadas directamente por el FCV antes de su aprobaci6n. Dicha evaluaci6n,
practicada por consultores contratados por FCV, ha involucrado en muchos casos revisiones y
reformulaciones a los proyectos. Esto destaca la importancia de que el FCV asigne mas recursos
a los entes territoriales para que estos contraten directarnente estudios de preinversion y asistencia
tecnica. La matriz de cofinanciaci6n adoptada privilegia la asignaci6n de recursos para
mantenimiento (pari passu mas alto). Si bien la intenci6n es canalizar mas fondos para el



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Camninos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - Pig 7 de 10
mantenimiento, en la practica la cofinanciaci6n del mantenimiento presenta los siguientes
inconvenientes: i) el mantenirniento, particularmente el rutinario, dificilmente puede ser
estructurado en "proyectos". Por su caracter continuo,es mas inportante asegurar programas que
comprendan la totalidad de la red bajo la jurisdiccion del ente territorial; y ii) los gastos en
mantenimiento son recurrentes por lo que seria mejor financiarlos con recursos propios o con
mecanismos que aseguren un flujo estable y seguro. La Ley 105 de 1993 (Ley de Transporte)
manda recuperar el costo de mantener y ampliar la infraestructura de transporte. Un anilisis ma.s
detallado del sistema de cargos a los usuarios --continuando en una segunda fase el Estudio Fiscal
de Carreterasy Cargos a los Usuarios realizado por Econ6mica consultores, permitiria
determinar cuales cargos son (o deberian ser colectados) a nivel del ente territorial y cuales por
ser colectados a nivel nacional deberian ser transferidos a los entes territoriales (via transferencias
intergubernamentales o via el CFV). Este analisis seria de gran utilidad para revisar los
porcentajes de cofinanciaci6n.
22.   Lecciones derivadas de la experiencia de FNCV. La desconcentraci6n de
responsabilidades y los sistemas de cofinanciacion que siguieron la legislacion de 1986-1987
promovieron la participacion local en proyectos de caminos vecinales, y contribuyeron en cierta
medida a preparar a los entes territoriales para la devolucion de los caminos y la completa
descentralizacion del sector iniciada en 1993. Esta experiencia de FNCV mostro que es dificil
movilizar a los entes territoriales para que tomen la responsabilidad por el mantenimiento
sistematico de las redes a su cargo, y que a pesar del apoyo de FNCV tampoco se aseguro el
mantenimiento permanente de la red a cargo de FNCV. Al disenar el proceso de
descentralizacion, por consiguiente debe asignarse la mayor prioridad a alcanzar el mantenimiento
sostenible de la redes a cargo de los entes territoriales. La experiencia de FNCV en este ambito
destaca tambien la importancia de establecer: i) un marco legal mas claro con relacion a la
jurisdiccion y responsabilidad por el mantenimiento de las respectivas redes secundaria y terciaria
(quien es responsable de cada elemento de la red); ii) mecanismos de financiacion bien
establecidos que aseguren un flujo estable y seguro de los fondos (el estudio fiscal de carreteras y
cargos a los usuarios enfatiza la necesidad de buscar fuentes de financiamiento apropiadas para los
departamentos e incluye algunas propuestas en este sentido); iii) un sistema de seguimniento y
rendicion de cuentas que proporcione el flujo de informacion necesario para que tanto el
organismo central a cargo de la politica del sector como los propios usuarios afectados puedan
evaluar y comparar los resultados de la gestion realizada por el enter territorial; y iv) mayor
acceso de los entes territoriales a suficiente apoyo tecnico.
23.   La implementacion de una estrategia para el mantenimiento de la totalidad de la red de
caminos vecinales, especialnmente mantenimiento rutinario, depende del comprorniso y capacidad
de los municipios para llevar a cabo el mantenimiento basico. El mantenimiento rutinario de los
caminos vecinales es simple pero requiere continuidad. En este contexto es necesario tambien (1)
disenar e implementar modalidades para la provision de los servicios de mantenimiento
apropiados para la capacidad de los municipios (formas de contratacion asequibles), y (2) definir
programas de mantenimiento que cubran todas las vias claves para el ente territorial a cargo, con
las metas a ejecutar y los arreglos para la implementacion a ser usados por todas las
organizaciones involucradas.



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Caminos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - Pag 8 de 10
Preparacion del Informe sobre terminacion de la implementacion del Proyecto
24.   De acuerdo con las condiciones generales de los prestamos del Banco Mundial, FNCV
debe preparar al terminar el proyecto su propia evaluacion retrospectiva de la implementacion del
mismo y un plan para su futura operacion. Estos documentos elementos formaran parte del
Informe de Terminacion delProyecto (ITP), elaborado conjuntamente con el Banco Mundial. La
preparacion de este informe reviste una importancia especial en las circunstancias actuales,
caracterizadas por la implementacion de la politica de descentralizacion de la gestion vial a los
entes territoriales y la suspensionlreorganizacion del FNCV hasta tanto los entes territoriales
alcanzen la capacidad de gestion necesaria para el manejo de las redes secundarias y terciarias, ya
que permitira obtener lecciones valiosas para el desarrollo de estos procesos.
25.   Los siguientes pasos fueron acordados para la preparacion del ITP:
antes del 15 de diciembre de 1995, la Oficina de Planeacion seleccionara una muestra
representativa de no menos de 20 subproyectos (que combine subproyectos de construccion y
mejoramiento realizados bajo el proyecto en distintas areas geograficas y cuenten con estudios
socio-economicos) para conducir una evaluacion ex-post de los mismos. La evaluacion ex-
post estara concluida antes del 30 de marzo para ser incorporada al ITP. Esto implicara
recolectar informacion en el campo y comparar las estimaciones de costos y beneficios al
momento de evaluar cada subproyecto con los resultados reales observados luego de
completados los proyectos. A tal efecto se aplicara la metodologia empleada en 1993 para
realizar la evaluacion ex-post del prestamo 2668-CO. Dado que la actual Oficina de
Planeacion no cuenta con los recursos humanos para completar esta tarea (esta reducida a tres
profesionales) la mision recomienda que (1) se contrate la evaluacion con un firma consultora
que tenga experiencia con la metodologia y modelos de evaluacion socio-economica de
FNCV, o (2) se contraten las tareas de recoleccion de informacion en el campo y se refuerze
la Oficina de Planeacion con un consultor individual con amplia experiencia en las
metodologias y modelos de FNCV;
* antes del 31 de enero de 1996: (1) la Subdireccion de Ingenieria consolidara y suministrara al
Banco la informacion sobre ejecucion fisica y financiera de cada uno de los componentes del
proyecto, incluyendo un listado de todos los subproyectos de construccion y mejoramiento
ilevados a cabo con financiamiento parcial del proyecto, con las metas fisicas alcanzadas, los
costos resultantes, y para aquellos con metas aun pendientes, las previsiones para la
terminacion de los mnismos (costo estimado, quien tendra a su cargo la termrinacion y los
plazos en los que se preve completar los mismos). La informacion de costos discriminara en
recursos del prestamo y recursos de contrapartida; y (2) la Oficina de Planeacion suministrara
al Banco la relacion de todos los subproyectos de construccion y mejoramiento ejecutados
con financiamiento del prestamo que cuentan con un analisis socio-economico, indicando las
metas fisicas y costos estimados en los estudios de evaluacion, y las metas fisicas alcanzadas y
costos resultantes luego de la ejecucion. En el caso de subproyectos iniciados con el
prestamo 2668-CO y continuados con el 3157-CO, la informacion sobre ejecucion
discriminara las metas e inversiones concretadas bajo cada uno de los prestamos;



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Caminos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - Pag 9 de 10
antes del 15 de febrero de 1996, la Subdireccion de Ingenieria en coordinacion con la Oficina
de Planeacion del FNCV y la Direccion General de Infraestructura del Ministerio de
Transporte, preparara y suministrara al Banco Mundial (a) el plan de operacion del proyecto y
(b) un informe de aproximadamente 10 paginas resumiendo la evaluacion del proyecto desde
la perspectiva de FNCV. El plan de operaciones establecera (1) los costos estimados para el
mantenimiento rutinario y periodico de los caminos construidos, mejorados o mantenidos con
financiamiento del proyecto, (2) las fuentes de estos recursos, (3) quien tendra la
responsabilidad por la ejecucion de los trabajos de acuerdo con la organizacion institucional
del sector, (4) los indicadores de desempeno que se emplearan para el seguimniento y
evaluacion de las futuras operaciones, y (5) la manera en que este seguimiento se llevara a
cabo. Asinismo, el plan operacional contendra tambien provisiones para la consolidacion de
los objetivos institucionales del proyecto a nivel de entes territoriales, es decir, las acciones
concretas que se adoptaran para capacitar a los entes territoriales responsables de la futura
operacion del proyecto y los indicadores que se emplearan para medir el progreso en este
sentido. El plan sera revisado y acordado entre FNCV, Ministerio de Transporte y Banco
Mundial antes de fin de febrero. En cuanto al informe, comprendera un analisis de los
resultados del proyecto, en que medida se lograron los objetivos de desarrollo del mismo, los
factores que afectaron positiva o negativamente la implementacion del proyecto, las lecciones
derivadas, los pasos a adoptar para asegurar la sostenibilidad del proyecto, y el desempeno de
FNCV y del Banco en el cumplimiento de sus obligaciones bajo el Convenio de Prestamo.
26.   Si bien las conclusiones definitivas se obtendran luego de completado el analisis, es posible
adelantar algunos comentarios preliminares que pueden orientar este proceso de analisis. Los
resultados del proyecto, en terminos de metas fisicas se pueden considerar relativamente
satisfactorios, si bien se alcanzaron en un tiempo mayor que el inicialmente estipulado; se logro,
en general, un balance relativamente adecuado entre construccion / mejoramiento /
mantenimiento, pero no fue posible consolidar el principio de red: el "inventario" de FNCV crecio
significativamente de 22,000 km a 33,000 km sin que se pudiera garantizar el mantenirniento total
de la red. Las eficiencias en materia de fortalecimiento institucional consolidadas durante los anos
1988-1992 fueron perdiendose debido al proceso de liquidacion. Como elementos claves, el
proyecto contemplaba la creacion y fortalecimiento de la Division de Mantenimiento para
controlar todos los programas de mantenimiento (contrato y administracionn directa) y la Unidad
Ambiental que funciono con consultores contratados bajo la Division Tecnica. Al termino del
proyecto ambas han desaparecido; si bien esto se debe al proceso de liquidacion, tambien es cierto
que ambas unidades tenian un rol clave tanto para el eficiente funcionamiento de FNCV como
para la transferencia de know-how a los entes territoriales, lo cualjustificaba su permanencia.
27.   En cuanto a fortalecirmiento institucional a los municipios los resultados son mixtos. Es de
notar que las necesidades y objetivos fueron cambiando. En una fase inicial, con introduccion
sistema de cofinanciacion, fue dar a conocer funcionamiento del sistema y asegurar que los
alcaldes pudieran acceder al mismo. Los resultado fueron muy satisfactorios. Paralelamente, el
esfuerzo de fortalecimiento institucional de largo plazo a los municipios probo ser mucho mas
dificil y no pueden esperarse grandes progresos en muy corto tiempo, particularmente porque
FNCV estuvo mas involucrado con los municipios de menor capacidad institucional. Sin
embargo, se hubiera tenido posiblemente un mayor impacto trabajando a nivel de municipio con



Segundo Proyecto Sectorial de Caminos Rurales
Ayuda Memoria Noviembre 1995 - Pig 10 de 10
un concepto de red y planes a mediano plazo. Una segunda fase esta asociada a la liquidacion de
FNCV, transferencia de la red a su cargo a los departamentos (con los cuales tenia escasa
relacion), y creacion del nuevo sistema de cofiinanciacion. Dice CGR en su inforne de auditoria
del ejercicio 1994: "El esfuerzo de FNCV en liquidacion para dar a conocer a los Alcaldes y
Gobernadores el contenido de la Ley 105 (Ley de Transporte) dentro del esquema de
descentralizacion administrativa para la entrega de vias y los mecanismos para acceder al Fondo
de Cofinanciacion de Vias (FCV), no se acompano de las acciones necesarias para el
fortalecimiento institucional en materia de capacitacion y transferencia tecnologica a los
departamentos y municipios para la planeacion, programacion, ejecucion y control de obras civiles
de construccion y conservacion vial, necesarias para propender por su fortalecimiento, mejorar su
capacidad institucional, tecnica y operativa para asegurar la continuidad y el mantenimiento
periodico de las vias rurales." Esta tarea fue dificultada por la tardia definicion de los mecanismos
de cofinanciacion y de transferencia de vias; quedan por resolver algunos aspectos importantes en
este ambito.
28.   La sostenibilidad del proyecto recae fundamentalmente en el despegue del sistema de
cofinanciacion y el fortalecimiento de los entes territoriales. Es esencial sin embargo asegurar una
adecuada distribucion entre responsabilidades transferidas, jurisdiccion o competencia de los
entes, y recursos disponibles para atender las resposabilidades en lajurisdiccion. Ajuicio de la
mision, el balance entre estos elementos aun no ha sido analizado a fondo, y mas bien se ha
buscado salidas de corto plazo (i.e., asignar al ente territorial por unica vez un valor unico por
cada km transferido).
29.   Por su interes en este proyecto, y en particular por su involucramiento en la preparacion
del Informe de Terminacion del Proyecto, una copia de esta ayuda memoria sera distribuida a la
Direccion General de Infraestructura Vial del Ministerio de Transporte.
Santafe de Bogota, 21 de noviembre de 1995
Por el Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales          Por el Banco Mundial
Dr.         rchan Madero                            Sr. Jose Luis Irigoyen
Liquida dr                                          Oficial Proyecto



I.rrr    co-a  04)   oVa  r,-*i   Oror   t.05r  I 40cc:e  aro    Ore        arc          as-ri        co-cl       40~~84    I ac-l'        Sera         co4i-.        o-se        cc)  OSI     air orw   i         C1I1111004tIC80iIlj D4$41m
I---- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ------------- 0-1--:--
D.-. c)O         crc    a.rc0        ores1   UOror   se-sr   64ac:t            a.j-o       ar          Ore1         orr.j       00c0I       4rs.O      I Dlo-tts                  DOa-         Cr54          rol         C01z            A0l011I>  IIU lop.c-r.  -
O :'ws  0            114twI    4  I_SYI "I)01    04vDI
~~~~~~~~            -2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------
-------  ---                                                                                                                                             --------------------- - - - -              -------1-  --
I 1<00    -It-I G: n-sr  XOVIT I          ziszz- 14af   rnc   n-e-a: oa1-s                              IVCA1 .CJAOVll tC0I   56C%                                       i14I DDCl1    0<64                   09   il      DrCt'GSAV1'DAII  114II040h  1IISi
- - - - - - 1 - -     -     -     -    -     -                                           - -----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ---------- ---    ----
* '.0-08    tIWI       SitAr  aur:   Crc-etc  ertaCo  irt'4    Or(4'iA                 CtSt(Z    Cr54.1    SIZtA? I       01349l'1  0019<1'   IAlrI D9-J% Ot.-1lS'                          DO-Oc    OI)tt4 P     090 05        .-SI. S                                    'f-
I  Sn COo                                                    OC ..8l   SA B04'l                 rla'o       crc1         SS-A                     cl-mIArti ac-sa1          00Ore        onc         as-a         00-a         actte                       03-0504  44j0
--       - -  - -  - -  -  - -  --  - -  - -                                 - --  ---------  ---                           - -  ----     - -  - -  - -  - --  -  - --  -  - -  - --  -  - - -  -  -  - -  -  - - -I--II
I 1.1* 59    uOoAt    790.0   WOC  n'i   45-111  (9<0 I trIil  140,III9<AI    ("9501  0<913  8~0IZ        O~Ol    I09<5-4<1   ct&               errol-       ml -AC      09  ('43      IreO.! I                    OttjOlt 418 0111111C
_C'_9..  _ua .001 t___        0'!t _(1_5A'O.:ZTCAn'l    Ah0I.:sIC                  0-:        :18'4s--t   tI-S4oq'    crc,:s       41998'       CtCl    DCOC             DCSO6c       cOit         are:S             o-o    a-et                            'II      c."-J6
I  9k in      -t       I'.gi            ~     -sa-r  cc-t I O0'CZ.1                                                    c-s-         s:'*Pr      sO'n,   I acc:&o          OCcvo        Isal        (nrc,        -0 DIre      aIr-6ir   iJ.-,5 44   lIU
---              I---I-----                                                                                                                                                                                ----                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------------       -------------   ---------------
I 1-A. icos)Ot           015  0.t'sll   (-I 54 4   -:;   coI          I  aC'SAIts    ac-a-l   0001           c50          scsc          901aac9. D-at                                      oOr        ocr          0'  i         C'Z       II-   s,   440Wu                         Ji
&tt'I1w0  A 534041-41
I0. IAAI                                                     0c)I,i  at:z           0e-a       'ore        D'Ire        00           co-c         ac-a      I Oc:           9<          Do-         er           Do-I         Do': _                  535404I$  140A8I1
I0Oz ai 00:0                                                                                                                                                       I                ?I-oI  4140.         1~ 
I  0OIl                                                    oc)li   4- O                                                                                    I aO'                                                             arc       i                  3--,l  0101 -.-J
I------II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----                                                                                                                                                                                                       --  --  - --  -
I--          I                                          ----------                         -I                                                                                                                -l~~~~~~~~~--- -   - ---
* ooc                                                                                 I co-a         an-          aD-a         Cr0         an-                                             .T'D  I 544   1144
 Cl-Co    (01-1101    513'54  *~fll    09<43C es-n.6  cs--I  I: 4r1z       t-i        io        SPlct           :Ao.4l    tnOl4     art:G           'A ca-c     oo:c.        DOl9         CrC         Is54         vrel       OtJOt41  001t
I Is. - 0t       VIItC:                     S  Z  a        SS".081I  40'l a                                    ;           sitcT-PTli :8or        00IA      001-ti          OZ         0 1)         0.0           U           00-,ti   I                 .s-fJ4143   Il.--I
I--                                                                     ----        -- -- -- -- - - -                                        -- -- --                                              - -- --.--            --  --  - - --- nv       'm~
1840      014       040  (1(           044576   1641    0S414    I WIG  ------ 2641!           s-CA      .4          14            64         04           10401------------0-----      ------   -1Z641                                                            -  - 4-l  
--                                                      I                      --          -           ---                                                                                                                                S0I4~~~~~~  ;~0  -------------
I                   t.OAMI53C4 II                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -AOA1flt                                                                                                     00404DI.44
0SII~~~~~                                                                                                                                                       an:cos~~~~~~~'es 0014  - iWO 03 53lIIIIIJO  841514 115138~~~~~~~~~~IOA  i    s~..juSM1SI   SLA
I fuuyv



rFonoo hAeEt08331. C C331M1140 U8:C%UAL.E'
OIc      de P1 anntc:ieGn
M ErA:S FISK1AS ElCc:LrrAcs   - NOs                                                                                                                                                          Anogo   I
tFRE0:ro srtr  ~17C                                                                                                                                                                           Cuasclro 1. 2
t                                                                         19,91~~~~~~~~~ie  ts      1992         1            1.993         I            2.994        a             .9 
I       a                           I   Rh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ao    I ACLIMtI-LRAOI    AJI.)  A CUMILLADOOI    flOG    I RCUMIILA001    Arlo  2 1CUIIULAOO:    nz$0    I ACUMULAIDO:    AltO    SACUIULLROO
Aopr.isnl  I  188.00     10fl.'20  I  2(S..00  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~404-.00  I   1)0.00 I  5841.00 1 62..00 2  445.320 2       0.00 I  645.320 2         0.00 2  644.00  2
I               I Roprc.grse.,.cion              1s.o          11     I          ti2.0   Oct.0 soI   190.00       3 20. 50 :   19S.50         13.s20o I   1)2.IPO I  64-8.320 2        0.00      644.00I
I   c0I4$ rFI.LjrcCTrIrJ                             I jcco  I..0 SO  pj,80   14s1.f                 1 -       148.42  326t. 05 I   111.23  1442.20  1   120.2O  I  562..40  I   153.36 1  718.842
*              I 2 ~~~~~~~~~~EJOC.  ApraisIi   I        i.i:   ~ .12 I    ss;.s8  !    3S.6 it      12S. 55  2    St..17 i   187'.24  2    68.57  I        0.00o I    87.:21 1       0.00 2   110.98  2
I       I :~~~~ Ejec. Ri.progran*1    100~~~~~~or).00t' I   11n.00li lzlq  I  .2.6  22!.32  i    08.64     0.3            tf. 34  I    86.121 1    91.32 1    *71.2i 2        0.00  I  110.98  I
I               I~~~~~~~~~ flpprMnasxl      :   72 .o 1i'     72.30        17.o         24.0     2  4 .0 0 a  64'. 00 147Z'. 00  I 1, 120. 320  I           0. 320 1 1, 120.320o I     0.00 2 1, 120. 00 2
I               ~~~~~~~~~I goproqran&Ci6n,  1     0.00  I       10.00 I   188:.00       188q.00o I  503.00 I  6813.00     64Cs.00 I 1,329.00  2  500.00 2 1,029.010 I                  0.00 2 1,029-.00  I
I  PLIEfj,rr$ v-      I Ei.CujCi6n                I     0.00  I      0j.00      188-0(3      I08.-30 I  391.60  2  577.60  1  588.70  I 1, 16-4.:10 I  322.320 I 1,486.:50  I   120.00 I i,s-oe-.as
I   r~~~0Nr0NEs  2    Ejec.  Apraisrtl ~~~~~~~~~0.00 I  ).j330 2   WC8.14       78-.23, I    q7l.1 2s   81i.29 I   1241.04 2   103.841  2          0.00 2   132.71 2          0.00 I   143-.43  2
I 2 Ejec. Ro.prc.gnn~~~~~~~~~~~I  I    2   100Inc.00     IOC'As0 I    77.07         803.84 I    '9j.67  I    07.81 I    644.40 I    01.227 I           0.00  I    olxn3
I  I Aopr~~~~~~.ins1        I  163.00  1   161S10         203.00~~~~~~~~~~~~D  37200      374.00 1' 748-.00 2  4541.00 2 1,200.20 2         0.320 I 1.200.130 2        0.00 2 i,2oC3. 00
I Eeprc.gr.on.,cton  I    10.70  2    10.70  I  20(3.00  2~~~~~~ 211C'.70 2  300..00  I  5I10.70  I  400.O0    9 10.0 1O     203.30 I 1,200.130 I    0.00  I 1,200.00  I
2   Fljorwtgirrmro   i  IC3Cn                  I    10l. 70       or          4.7          5.I         216,.38  I  472.946 I   157.,44 1621-50 2  143.68 I  772.388     149.91 1   ni.-n*
*               ~~~~~~~~~I :   J.c.  Ars'r.islr.&    2  r8.321   .:'         oSC, t   4Ps.0           57I:r.86  I   631.25      34.6 2I       52.44 2       0.030 2    64.-42 1       0.00  I    78.821
2  I    EJ.c. k'oprcg.~~~~~~~~~M1c2    100.00  2   1011,00 1    '~~~~~~~~~1W0  121.25  I    72..13 2    92:.39 I    313.3112    61.10 2    43.64  I    6-4.42 2        0.00  I    7G6.82  I
*               2~~~~~~~~~ Appraipzal       1    ( 100.00 1 100.00j2  200C.00 I300.00  14502.00 275C1. 00 2  5423.00 21, 293. 00 2                          0.00 1 1,2-93.130 I       0.00 2 1,293I.00  1
I Roprc.gra,n.ciOn  I  205.~~~~~~0    2 2:35.20 1  2'.11C..s0  4 -11t00  2900.00 2 1,312:.00     I 800.00 :2 2 12.00)  I  350.00 I 2.570.1:20              a 000  :22,50.0 
MONI-FE811118870 I 9jocucian,                 2    0.022580                  0.5          1.0 I         962 11,0061.21  2  5085.03 2 1,59-4.32 1  12.0   21,716.:,.8 I  23_5.:30 I1,951.60 
PERI8IICC'        21   v.ArOnaL I288 I2  208.20  2   10'.25  I   1373.3 I--                           1)2.51 1   1341.44 2   1071.92 I   123.350 I           0.320 2   1342.74 2       0.00 I   15C3.94 2
2  I                   I            I            I            .            .             3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.'  I21.  s    &.I  1  I211  2 ..3     6.i1 00 I  2 '  24 



:1BSfrQde Trariswc,te
RONDOC N.AClIONAL DE AHINIS ~E.Oi'NAtE5
Oificinia 6e planeicibn
OSSENBBLSOS   ~~~B ITRY   31357 -C                                                                                                    Cuadro 1.3 -
VALIR                       ~~~~~      ~     ~~~~VALOBR  VALOR  IVALOR APLICADO I   SALDO P08
,AE:113 51.  5                   i    PRESENTAKO            VALOR,           PROSRAMADO      DESENBOLSADO   AL ANTIJIPO EN :JU8TIFICA'R    JUrST!I-
COMB PAKO ft        SOLICITADO f$           us$               US$               us                us$       IFICADO
.1ATEGOMAI               ~~~~~1.56.584.207.42t.77 ~33.950,5124.,456.67 ;43.700.000.00 I45,313,427.66              0.00   (41,6i3,427.66)11031.69
y  eoaieintD   1,41,994,067.5003.t  :25,196.440.5,32.05                    3'4.057.648.49              0.00 
~~ajte~~ieiento           1~~~0.798,589.425..,0   6.4179,153,,655,.03                  8,555,196.74 1              0.0
.CrtcOri puenttes              3,791,5150,4393     2.274,730,263.59                        2,700.582.43300
AEOLA11                          78,1,465            629,615,5615.20  1.00.000              880,820.62C             0.00 :     119.1179.38   88.08e
REH.ABILITACIO0N DE EOUIPO'                                                                  
,ehabilitaclDn de Eoui5o              787,0119,456.50    629.6155,565,2u 1                  i     880,820.62 10.0
CATESORIA iii             ~~~~~7.301,885,6097.73   3,293,,922,475.84   4.500.000.001   4,328,495.87 I            10.00     1171,504.113 :96.19
~SERViICI DrE CONSZULTORES,
Cateec-ria III A                  7,140,406.580.%0   3,21.3.182.,9611.22 ;4,200.0010.00       4,215,269.29 1            0.00       (115,269.29;;100.36
irazado                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,706,457.597.24  767,905z.9 18 .76 t,J1.148,22.48 1                      0 .00if
1 i t erveTnt ,r Ias         1 5.129,1106,461.,12 12.308S,0P7.907. 50                  1    ,0.2.8('.00
rorseiuitor as                    304 ,84 2.,522.1 4  137.179.134,96 1                         6,1.30.00
Cateoc'ria 111 8       ~~1 161,.479.0294.23     8,0,739.514.62:   3,00,000 .00    1  113,226.58                 0.00    13 I6.773.421 37,74
0se~~~~oriaa             1614-'oII. 4 7 9,0-29 23  0 , 739.51 4.62             1     11.226.58               0.00 
CATIESORIA, IV4                       107.003,089,04 I      53-501%.544.52     500,I000.0I(0 11    72,411.93  1           0. 00 1    427, 588.07  114.48 
ACTIVIDADE'S BE ENRENAMIENTO 6
C60nicitacien -v Viati'cos        1   4107,(03,089.04       53.5,01.544.52 11                      72,411.93 1            0.00 1     427,588.07
"NOt ASISNAPO0                                   000.0 50.                  0      .00.0  10.00  1                        0.00   1, 5300.000.00 10.00 1
Re-curseo5 ro asinniados.         ,               .0                 0.00 1                              0.00 1           " 0.0 1i  5,300.000.00
TOTAL APLICADO                    :64,780,1i15,5837-.4  37.9217,564".042.23 15.0,0.01  50,595.1156.08    4.201,579.85 14.404,843.92 191.799
TOTAL "ANTICIPO                                                              4.989,614.69 1   788,034.8400 14,201,579.85             788,034.84 :84.21:
TOAL DESENBOLSADO                                                          155.,000.000.30 1  511,383.1190.92K366890
INFOMACION HASTA EL DESSEBOL'SO NO. a7



Ministerio de Transporte                                             Cuadro 1.4
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
Of icina de PlaneaciOnr
Division Financiera-Desembolsos
PROPUESTA DE REASIGNACION DEL CREDITO BIRF. 3157-CD
)'lAL CR           VA~LOR             VA~LOR
CATEGORIAS            PRDG&RAJADO       DESEMBOLSAPDO       REASIGNADO
*                          :      ussfi-.     ,      USi$.       9      LIe*S$.
------------------------~~~ I- --- ~ ~ - ~ ,~------------_-- -- - - -------------------
:CATEG. I- OBRAS             47~8,  f6.2U700.00   45.313.,427-66     493.99656.00
s ______________________ r_______________ s~~~~~~~~~~ ___________ r _______
'Cons,trLcc. y MejorrSt. .                    r4,057,648..49
' lantenimr.iento          r                        555 196.74
'ConStrUcC. Puentes                              2.700.582..4-3
*                                             F___      _____      __r_______________    ______     ____ _     ______     
:CAPTEG.II-EGLI]PO            i                     8 8o'.2 {0006 oo  8    9 2t   - 6'2:    880,820.62
__________________  r ____________ ____________F        __________ _
-----------------------,---------------,---------------_________-------
'Rehabilitac. Epu-ipo-                             BB08~ 20- 62
ICATEG. III                                   I
: `ERVIC.C.NSLULT.            , 450000000        4,328.4?495-87     4,647.111.45
- - - - - - - - ---  --,-- - - - - -             -   -     -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -:                                    
.Categ. -A 3.. 200 :0l00                         4,215,269-29 :  457533,884,87
Trazados          :                     1,148V,822.48
Intervent          :                     2,900,528.ZB
C.onsult.                                  165.918.73
:Categ. 3B    tL5          ;                        113.226.58         113,226.58
:CATEG. IV
:ENTRENAMIENTO               S r 5:00?000            72,411.93          72,411.93
:Capaci tacibn                                 2. *  A7.41.9 F,..F r
r                          F                  F                  F                  F
:N0 AS]GNADO               '  '                            Q000 00-00         0_0
TODTAL APLI}CADO                               '. 595 .1 56 - 08 .5, B0,000.00
:ANTICIPO INIC...    7F.0F4-84
TOTAL DESEMBOLSADO          55.f z02 01. 0 0 000   51 ,3078.190.92    55.000i,00.00
R.L.G. y M.G.T.
Nov.15 de 1995



Ainisteric de Tranesprte                                                                                        Annex  1
FORDO UACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECIUALES                                                                                   Attachment 2
Subdireccifn de Inqenieria - Setcih Proqru int   (Conservicidn)
PROGRAIA 3E ADMINISTRACION DIRECTA
fETAS FISICAS EJECUTADAS DE ENERO I A 38 DE OCTUBRE DE 1995
Anexo No. 2
I
|  I           IIETAS FISICAS PRO6RAllADAS              I          A'ANCES FISICOS ACUKULADOS                    i                     i
;                    ;                                                        W                     j  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APORTE
R E G I O     N A l                                                                                                     KANTENIIENTO               EJECUTADO        COFINANCIAC.
ICoNSTRUCCION (NEJORANENTO                ,CoNSTRUCCIDN (EJORANIENTO?                              .                                   t
'l             !            !=PERl0DlMCO==RUTINARlIO-l2                !             !=PERIDlDCOj=kUTlNARIO-                             !
I  __                                                                                                                                                  __    -------I"---  
8.08          8.08          8.80          8.88          8.88          8.0           8.88          8.8                    8.88               8.88
BOLIVAR                            8.60          0.60         15.80         15.08          8.68          8.88           9.58         16.00         71,616,715.88       4,478,716.88
DOYACA                           12.48          22.58        246.58          8.08         11.28         12.58         99.88           6.88                   8.088             8.8
CAiUETA                          65.88           6.68        225.68        283.81         11.88          8.80          31.88         78.58         95,918,891.08       2,581,28f.86
ClOCO                            16.38         16.88           2.88         48.36    -     1.88          2.88          8.88        125.88                   8.88      4,608,808.88
CORDOBA                            6.81         84.45         24.81         83.85          8.88          4.88         22.38          44.75            128,591.43          18,779.08
RETA                             18.88        171.88          22.88         32.88          8.88         25.08          8.08         31.86         195,418,708.88      2,196,968.08
NARIHO                            11.88          3.88          8.6i         16.78          8.88          8.88           8.68          8.68                   6.88              8.00
PUTUNAYO                           8.08          8.88         72.24        136.41          8.00          5.60         46.78         65.16         3444435,849.88    61,628,912.88
SANTANDER                         18.81         67.88         94.88        835.88          8.88          9.P8         32.80         277.86                   8.80              6.86
0       T A L                  146.78        378.75        701.54       1,361.46         23.28         58.18        235.38         523.35        787,582,746.43    74,888,507.681



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE                                                     Annex 1
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES                                                  Attachment 3
INFORME IMPACTO AMBIENTAL
1995
ANEXO-3,
REGIONAL               CAMINO                   OBJETO         ENTIAD AMEENTAL              OBSERVACIONES
DEL CONTRATO
BOLIVM      ARENAL-LA ARCADLA-SIMOrTA-MORALUTO  CONSTRUCCION   CORPORACION AUTONOMA PLAN DE RECOMENDACION
ARENAL-NOROSI                  CONSTRUCCION       REGIONAL DEL SUR     AMBIENTAL
ARENAL-CONFORMIDAD              CONSTRUCCION      DE BOLIVAR C.S.B.
PUENTE LOS SOLDADOS-LAS MONJAS    CONSTRUCCION
CAQUETA     PUERTO BELLO-ZABALETA                                                  ESPERA COMUNICACION
CORPOAMAZONLA
CAQUETA     PASTOR-QUiMAYA                                                         SE SOLICITO LICENCIAAMBIENTAL
A LA C.R.C.
CESAR       PUEBLO BELLO-LA CAJA                               CORPOCES DR.        SE SOLICITO VIABIUDAD AMBIENTAL
Y LOS TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA
PARA LA ELABORACION DEL RES -
PECTIVO ESTUDIO, EL 7 CDE JUL-95.
A LA FECHA NO SE HA TENIDO RESP.
SEGUN ALCALDE NO NECESITA L.A.
CORDOBA     CAREPA-SAIZA                    CONSTRUCCION       MINISTERIO DEL      SE REAIJZO VISITA AL CAMINO CON
MEDIO AMBIENTE.     FUNCIONARIOS DEL MINISTERIO DEL
MEDIO AMBIENTE, LOS DIAS 20-21 Y
22 DE JUNIO, CON EL OBJETO.E
APROBAR EL ESTUDIO PRESENTADO
A LA FECHA NO SE HA RECIBIDO RTA.
CUNDINAMARCA SAN JOSE- SAN JUANITO          CONSTRUCCION       MINISTERIO DEL      SE PRESENTO PROGRAMA DEL MEDIO
MEDIO AMBIENTE.     AMBIENTE PARA SU ESTUDIO Y
APROBACION EL DIA 27 DE JUNIO. YA
FUE APROBADO. SE PRESENTO
RECURSO DE REPOSICION.
CHOCO       TITUMATE-BALBOA-SAN             CONSTRUCCION       CODECHOCO           NO CONTRATADO. YA QUE MIGUEL
MIGUEL-ACANDI.                                                        ANGEL PINTO, EFREN RODRIGUEZ
INTERVENTOR PENDIENTE POLIZA.
RESGUARDO.
CHOCO       BALBOA-GILGAL-STA. MARiA        MEJORAMIENTO       CODECHOCQ_
GUAJIRA     VILLANUEVA-LA CULEBRERA         CONSTRUCCION       CORPOGUAJIRA
_________ ________ ________ _   _______ ________ ________ _______  



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
INFORME IMPACTO AMBIENTAL
19                                              ANEXO 3
REGIONAL               CANINO                   OBJETO         ENTIDAD AMBIENTAL            OBBERVACIONES
DEL CONTRATO
GUAINIA     PUERTO INIRIDA-RIO GUAINIA      MEJORAMIENTO       INDERENA REG. META.   SE REALIZO VISITA OIA 15-16 Y 17 DE
JUNIO CON EL OBJETO DE PRESENTAR
EL PLAN DE RECUPERACION Y
MEJORAMIENTO DEL CAMINO ENTRE
LAS ABSISAS K 0- K 11 + 500 INCLUYENDO
LOS SITIOS DE EXPLOTACIION DE CARRE-
TERA, PARA DAR CUMPUMIENTO A LA
PROVIDENCIA DEL 26 DE DICIEMBRE DE
1.994 EMMDA POR INDERENA DONDE FUE
NEGADA LICENCIA DE CONSTRUCCION
DEL K 11+500 AL K 21. INDERENA NIEGA
CONSTRUCCION SE PRESENTO RECURSO
DE REPOSICION.
MAGDALENA   SANTA ROSA-LA CRISTALINA        CONSTRUCCION       CORPAMAG            SE ELABORO Y PRESENTO PROGRAMA
ALTA -LA GALAXIA                No47-0168-0-94                         DEL MEDIO AMBIENTAL EL DIA 15 DE
JUNIO, PARA ANAUSIS Y APROBACION
DE LA CORPORACION COMO RECURSO
DE REPOSICION A LA RESOLUCION No.
001086 DEL 17 DE ABRIL DE 1.995
(suspeorem) SE PIDE COMPLEMENTA -
CIONES DEL PROGRAMA DEL MEDIO
AMBIENTAL MEDIANTE OFICIO'No. SD-057
DEL 4 DE JULIO DE 1.995. NO HAN RESP.
NARINO      SAN LORENZO-MANGA PANAMERICANA   MEJORAMIENTO      CORPONARINO         SE SUSPENDIO LA EXPLANACION Y SE
HIZO REPROGRAMACION CON LOS
DINEROS FALTANTES PARA DESARROLLAR
LAS ACTIV1DADES DE RECUPERACION
PROPUESTAS EN EL P.M.A COMO RESP.
AL OFICIO OJS-D30-95 DEL 24 DE FEBRERO
DE 1.096 EM1T1DO POR CORPONARIAiO.
NARINO      SANTA LUCIA-MARTIN PEREZ        MEJORAMIENTO       CORPONARINO         |E INTERPUSO RECURSO DE REPOSICION
POR PARTE DE LA DRA. MARIA EUGENIA



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
INFORME IMPACTO AMBIENTAL
1995                                        ANEXO 3
REGIONAL               CAiMNO                   OBJETO         ENTIDAD AMBIENTAL            OBSSERVACIONES
DEL CONTRATO
NARINO        ALTAMIRA-POLICARPA.
NARINO      SAN FELIPE-SAN JUAN                                                    SE ESTA CONTRATANDO EL PLAN DE
RECUPERACION AMBIENTAL
PUTUMAYO    SAN FRANCISCO-PORTACHUELO-MINCHOY MEJORAMIENTO     'CAP' CORPOAMAZONIA  REQUERIMIENTOS DE LA CORPORACION:
.LA FIRMA CONSTRUCTORA ECSAM NO
COLABORO AL RESPECTO.
.LA INFORMACION SOLICITA A FUOCAMINOS
NARIAO TAMBIEN FUE NEGADA.
.ENTREGA DE INFORMES MENSUALES. A
LA FECHA NO SE HA CUMPLIDO CON NINGUN
TIPO DE INFORMACION SOLICITADA POR LA
CORPORACION MEDIANTE AUTO No.002 DE
NOVIEMBRE 15 DE 1.J95. SE ENTREGO UN
INFORME DE AVANCE.
PUTUMAYO    CONDANA-YUNOUILLO                                                      DEBE CONTRATAR P.M.A SEGUN
CORPOAMAZONIA.
RISARALDA    REGADEROS-LA CUMBRE            CONSTRUCCIION Y    CARDER.             SUSPENDIDO EL 22 DE FEBRERO DE 1.995
MEJORAMIENTO No.                       POR EL INSPECTOR DE PUEBLO RICO
88-0340-0-93                          (Carder). SE INICIA AUTO DF INVESTIGACIION
MARZO 10 DE 1.905.
.MEDIANTE RES. NO.256 DE JUNiO 12 DE 1.906
SE CONCLUYE LA INVESTIOACION.
MEDIANTE RES. No. 299 DE JUUO 11 DE 1.995
SE AUTORIZA EXPLOTACION DE MATERIAL DE
CANTERA..PENDIENTE: CARDER
.ENVIO DISENOS OBRA CAPTACION DE PARTE
DEL ING. JUAN MANUEL HOYOS RESIDENTE.
.ACUERDO CON EL CONTRATISTA
_REGISTRO FOTOGRAFICO DE LAS CUNETAS.
RISARALDA    MANPAY-LA UNION                                   CARDER.             MEDIANTE MEMO No. EA 234-95 DEL 4 DE JUUO
DE 1 .995SOLICITAN P.M.A. DEL CAMINO PARA
DAR CUMPUMIENTO A LA RES. 301/94.
_P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
INFORME IMPACTO AMBIENTAL
1995                                          ANEXO 3
REGIONAL              CAMINO                   OBJETO         ENTIDAD AM0IENTAL            OBSERVACIONES
DEL CONTRATO
TOUMA       LA COLONIA-ALTAMIZAL            MEJORAMIENTO No.   CORTOUMA           SE REALIZO VISITA AMBIENTAL EL 28-29 Y 30
734488-0-94                           DE JUNIO CON EL OBJETO DE HACER EVALUA-
CION Y SOLICITAR VIABIUDAD. NO HAY RTA.
A LA FECHA
TOLIMA      HERRERA-LA UNEA                 CONSTRUCCION      CORTOLIMA           LA CORPORACION ALEGA LA VIOLACION DE LA
VIABIUDADRESPECTDO DE QUE SE SOBREPA-
SARON EL ABSCISADO PERMMDO EN LA
VIABILIDAD SOBRE LO CUAL EXISTE UNA RES.
DE POSIBLE SUSPENSION.
VALLE       MATEGUADUA-SAN MARCOS-MONTELORO                   C.V.C.              SE ENVIO OFICIO EL 22 DE JUNI095 AL
ALCALDE DE TULUA CON EL FIN DE QUE
SOUCITE LA LICENCIA Y LOS TERMINOS DE
REFERENCIA PARA LA ELABORACION DEL
ESTUDIO CORRESPONDIENTE.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE                                          Anexo 4.
DIRECCION GENERAL DE VIAS E INFRAESTRUCTURA   Annex 1
ASISTENCIA TECNICA A LOS DEPARTAMENTOS  EN  1995.                       Attachment 4
EPAWAM               UACO             _________OSERVACIONE
r- - RE Ms: - - -NT VVDADSEION:
~~D ApJ~~j~~,REUNION:~                      Nda       MIRANSPORTE       _______
RISARALDA    PEREIA        25-28 DE ENttOi_  4   PEDRO J. POLOG6.   EN TOTALSE
ESORIA Y     VALLE        CALI        8-11 DE FEBREO    4   CAMINOS VECINALES    PARTICIPO EN 25
SISTENCIA     NORTE DE    CUCUTA        15-18 DE FEBR.    4                        DEPARTAMENTOS
SANTANDER   __            _______-
ECNICA:       CASANARE    YOPAL         26-29 DE ABRIL   4   GERMAN MADRIGAL P.  DELOS 32
I_I ARMANDO RODRIGUEZ D.
ENTIFICACION, IBOYACA      TUNJA       02-05 DE MAYO    4   ARMANDO RODRIGUEZ D.
! _________              ____________   _____   GERMAN  MADRIGAL  P.
|PREPARACION Y  |MAGDALENA  SANTA MARTA 17-20 DE MAYO |4   GERMAN MADRIGAL P.=
i~~ ~~ I                                   ARMANDO RODRIGUEZ D.
EVALUACION     CAUCA        IPOPAYAN    24-27 DE MAYO    4  TGERMAN MADRIGAL P.
DE PF1OYECTOS  ATLANTICO                                     t BARRANQUILL 31 DE MAYO-  MARIA ELISA ORJUELA
i_________ _________ I3 DE JUNIO              GERMAN MADRIGAL
ITOLIMA      IBAGUE      05-07 DE JUNIO   3   Armando Rodriguez
Javier Parra
QUINDIO    jARMENIA    08-10 DE JUNIO     3   JGennan Madrigal      _I
GUAVIARE   jS.J.GUAVIARE 12-15 DE JUNIO   4   CAMINOS VECINALES    ___
VICHADA      PETOCARE?O  13-17 DE JUNO    5   GAriando Rodriguez 
HUILANNANEVA             19 - 22 DE       4   Guillernno Montana C.
JUNIO                Ariel Uribe F.
NARI?O       PASTO       21-24 DE JUNIO   4   Javier Parra
CHOCO        QUIBDO      27 Y 28 DE       2   CAMINOS VECINALES
___I _ _____ JUNIO        _       _         -_-___
GUAJIRA      RIOHACHA    26-29 DE JUNIO        German Madrigal
It  l  |  |PEDRO POLO G.      _     _ _
RISARALDA    PEREIRA     3-5 DE JULIO     3   MILTON SUAREZ
-________           ___ _  CGerman Madrgal        _     _    _
META        VNICENCIO  5-8 DE JULIO       4   J. ARIEL URIBE F.    |    _      _
SUCRE        SINCELEJO   10-12 DE JULIO   3   Javier Parra M.
t1   1       :           l             l      | ~~~~~~~~~~~~Gerrnan Madrigal   
CORDOBA      MONTERIA   13-14 DE JULIO    2   German Madrigal      !     _     _
__________ I__ _ {Javier Parra  M.                                 i_I
BOLIVAR      CARTAGENA  17-19 D JULIO     3   Arrnando Rodr?guez
If_______    _________ f___i__     |__        German  R. Maddgal P.
SAN ANDRES  SAN ANDRES 24-28 DE JULO|         Pedro J. Polo G.
fY PROVIDENCI             25-28 DE JULIO  _    German Madrigal P.     i
g   t ANTIOQUiA  JMEDELUN   |2528 DE JULIO    4  |Reynaldo Urlbe Rincon 
M1D1LLIN    25-28 DI JUIO i4   Arnando Rodeigguez D.
11  11 _______ I________                _____ Germ an   Madrigal P.  _I
LSANTANDER  IBUCARAMAN 28-28 DE JULIO      3   Milton J. Suarez I.
;I             jAMAZONAS   LETICLA        2e-28 DE JULIO    3   CAMINOS VECINALES   I                I
CAQUETA      FLORENCIA  02-05 DE AGOST    4   Armando Rodr?guez
PUTUMAYO    MOCOA        02-05 DE AGOST       J. ARIEL URIBE F.    I     _I
CESAR       VALLEDUPAR 09-11 DE AGOST    3   Javier Paffa M.       I     _     _
VAUPES       MITU        14-18 DE AGOST    5   CAMINOS VECINALES   I     _I
ARAUCA       ARAUCA      18-19 DE AGOST    4   J. Ael Urlbef. F._
ICUNDINAMARC BOGOTA       15-16 DEAGOSTJ       ARMANDO RODRIGUEZ  I       _j
|GUAINIA     I PTO. INIRIDA 15- DE SEP.   I  5   CAMINOS VECINALES   I       



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
Subdirecci6n de Caminos Vocinales
Semlnarlo sobro dlescentraizaci6n de Ia Redl Vial y Sisterna Naclonal de Cotinarncciacion
NoT   DEPARTAMENTO   FEC HA SEMINA    FUNCIONARIOS                                    BUENO  iREGULAR.-.AL
1~~~'AMAZO~~~NAS            26, 28 :Vii        iCarlos A. Echeve!Ty A.         .                -.
__________________                                                       -..-..-.---.-.. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......   ...... ......    ...      .....    .. ........ ..
LusFernando Gt6m*zM 
2    IANTIOQUIA        ~~~26, 28 -VII   .   No.particip65 ia Subdlreccl6n       X 
3  ARAUCA                    is.,19 - Vii        Felix Maria Lo'On Chaves 
',lDomlngo Nlio Jaime       -
4 iARCHIPIELAGO                                         ...
ME SAN ANDRES
- 51`bvi5.jc Y
SANTA CATAUJNA            25, 26 - ViIIl      N  partbcipo Ia Subdireccion
.. ;ALNTICO   -                31-V. 3-Vi          'Luis Fernando Gomez M,                                         X
S  BOUVAR             18, 19- ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VII  iNo participolIaSubdireccl6n    -       - __
7_  iB -AC                    -  ,5 I              !Luis Fernando G6mez M.
CALDAS     -   ~     ~~31-11i         Luis Domingo N~io Jaimne                                     --
-~~~~ -         - ~~~~~Luls Fernando G6mez M.
--9    :CAQUETA                  :2,5 -Vi             Fei MvaLenChvz-                          
I 10 iCASANARE           ~       25, 29 - IV    ~     John J. Carvajal Gallego
11    CAUCA               24~~~~~~~~~~-  '"_``_,27-V   _  Felix Maria l-6n Cae
1 2   ICESAR                    ':-   9 1 1 -Vill    FirdelBohorquez Cuartas         -
..-.-s ----.-..-..--..~~~~~~~~~.. . ... .-....-.-.......................  ...A. .. ..  .. ... -  ---
1 3    ORDOVA                   :12,14 - Ml         0aniel A. Chac6n G.                  X      I
___       f~~~~~~~~~            Carios~~~~~~~~A. Echeve yA            .~. -...... ..... -..
..   ....... .    ..... ..........-.- -....  ...........    -.-. - ,. .......--- ----.                             ..... ..
1 4    !CUNDINAMARCA            15, 16 - Vill        Luis Domingo NiAo Jaime             X 
-                                    1~~~~~~~~~~~Felix.Maria Le6n Chavez___
........      ... .................            ~.. ..........
151'C  6HO0CO _- ....           26.29.V                  Domingo NIqjL~Lo JameI
~~~~~feix_Maira Lei5n Chavez                 ~    ~    ~        .-..
IGUAJN1A  --       ~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~5,9- Ix  'John Jairo CarvCaJl GaiIego.- X-                --
17    GUAVIARE           13,~~~~~~~~~~~t  14VI  Luls Fernando G6mez M                                      -   
'Luls DOIoNoJam
18    GUAJIRA   -  - ~~i26, 29 -'v VIFIdel Bohorquez Cuartas
1 9  _HUILA                    11, 22-V -'Y    -     Stefano TiqerIna B~ez    -x
__  -                   _        -     1~~~~~~~~~~Fidel Bohorquez Cuartas _-                            -
-.20    MAGDALENA --17, 20 -V  !-Fidel Bohorquez Cuartas                                  -        -     --
2 1    MSTA.          8 - Vil          iStetano Tigedna Stez~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~teaoigrnBaz_
--  __         5,8-VII        -~~luisFernando G6rnez M,
22f   NARIN                      21,_24o-hVin_ John "ia'i-r-oCs-"va-1a-IG_aIle-_o_-`-_   X  -            - - 
jDanlel A. ChacOn G,
23       NqTE DE SANTANDER   iSiS-Il   - 11          Luls Domlngo.NWiftJaimne
.-.r                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Fidel Bohorquez Cuartas
4.......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . ~ .. ...   . . ...............-.....    ..
Luis Fernando G6mez M. 
___...il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2havez   ~~~~~~~~~~.. .....
24 PUrUMAYO                  2,  Vii llLuis Fernando G6mez M.    I                   X        ___
25 QUINDIO                   9    MNoptil6lSudrc i6
_____             -____ _ ~~Luis Fernando Gtdmez MW.___                      ______
27   JSANTANDER                 2,9Vi           ---EstetanoTige na bez             -     X   -
28   ;SUCRE                      10, 12 -l Vi        Fidel Bohorquez Cuartas           -
29   'T0LIMA  DE; ~-~                 iNo.participo Ia Subdireccion                                              -
L  .o                  CAUC'A      8 11 I              C'ar"l o s'A. E'c-h e-v-rrA',
--                                   L~~~~~~~~~uls Fernando Gbmez_M.
-    -   ~~John Jalro carval G aIle o-
3;1    'VAUPES                   14, 18 -VIII       :Carlos A.E hevrryA
a2  -    HADA _                        M            Crls A. Echeveny.A.
.L--.  -.------.-                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL:-   11  I.2.
~o participdla Subdirsccl6n do intraestructura Vial           -1                         7.             7.1     I    14.3
-j   --.... . -....-- . ...-...-..--....---....-.'....   ....---.---.-.I-..... .~~~~~..... .....  .....
Se partdp-6- an 2-7 -doelo"s 3'2'-  De p' a rta m an to s  ..              . ..



5S!U!~~~JBASt4~~~~ ,'~~'wolJe,  IA-9Vl,  l                                       VCIVH0 t
5   ~        ~         ~        ~  ~..   ......    .....
OU*.IOV4 261W19     OPUSW94S j                     _ __ _ __________
--II  -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........I._Z-Z1-.. ... ...      .... ..... L-.f....
901                                                                      zepsGLI9509  -             8SE          IIA - s s
__    --   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.        _   ~~~     .. ...     ......- ..-_
-------------
-... .......--............-- -                    .                                                                                                    .   . ...-..~
I                                              et wietjr OiN UiWOO Sjflli  iA - &  91.1 8S(NVW                                 H;C   *i  St
~~~~~~~~~~.....-.........             .... . ~....                                      .....    ..  -*...... ........ ..
-          zeIOY4 owe ou~e-usiej  in1
-   ----,.--....-----..--~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~       ~~ ~~~..- ...........-..... . - - .   .  .  .-   .- ...-.. --...--- ..................- -.  ....
9' i.s     L                        09                               zeee~2   *WirOJIo6UiWoueflt1lIIA-9 Vgi                           YOVINN1Nr
__                            -.   ~~~~~sSJn2nefbioi4oa ;ep~:ljilA
............                         ...........     .   --f. ......... AX                           -L r't'                                 r    '    
01,  l,     ~           ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ I91 Uu J.L ctlateuL4or                               zAl   6                                       Yr    inVSV   61
......                                         ..........   . * S.4........   ........   ...............                  ~~fl                       V 3   
o r                 s~  ~~ ~~~ ~~~wie r     O WIN   O U  WL O C3    SI ..  ..........  ...... ..  ......  .....    .... ....  ...........
--                 -                uoi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai~~~~~~~pqns si~~~~~~~~~~~~ odjiier 61on  xA    -  qr-- Y flst:LN S
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . -   ...   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - r        ~         ~        ~        .... ..
70AfLj: U901l SPOW XjjQ:i  iiA  ~$                                       ~             l~1
___    SOOVfl1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR9J1J                                                       --'YS
OflhI9NOl SOD~~~~~~~AO~~d~~ S~~1NVdI~~~fl?Ias     Vd                 SzoIWNovi4oA Iy   VHolueC1N                                                 1WdOCN0  ei,
9z               c io09e~o  e   u~~rjew~i Ah  sein z9bopo uQ11p11  uhiep  JqO  OIJIzW
........... .....   .    ..........e..        ... ...      0so u lw e- e-                                                    -      I. ..........
C'Es   E                         PC                       Z~~OdNVL OA14   OQ INRIJe   841         ZKvno  .I



MINI81 RIO DE TRANSPORTE1                                                                  -..~
'U9iRiif E CCIONDIE CAMINOSYE CINALE S                        -I~.-                                                  ..-.-.
..-...-j . ------i-...-.------~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~.I.-...-...... ......
ASISTENCIA TECNACMUNICIPIOS                                                                                                                                  ....I...
14nor me hasta octubre do 1q95..-........
.*1~~~~~~~~-~ ~~ ~~  .-~~~ ......-      ..  ......... -----.--  ........  .......   ......                                        ---------
jDEPARTAMENTO    MUNICIPIO    FECHA             OBJETO                   - FUNCIONARIO  PROVECTOS  ODJETO  1LONGITIJD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROYCTO    OBETO LONITU
V                                                                                                   EVALUADOS4                             KMS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fVLADS:KS
ATQOUIA        _      Abejorral             17, 20-IV        identificacii5n y evaluacii6n            'Fidel_Bohorquez C                1        Mantenimiento            1s
'do proyectos               ~Felix Le6n Chavez
ANTIQOUfA  Bello                                l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'dentificaci6n y Evaluaci6n  Fidel Bo-ho-rquez --C-.---
-            - I~~~~~~~'tagui                         de proyscios
ANTIOGUIA                ;Jeric6     -       - 101-V             ;deifco   y Evaluaci6n                   'Fidel Bohorquez C. -             1         Manlenimiento    -  24
~~Tarso             -           de proyectos                             ;Enrique Caryonel S.                      1      .        -
auebonco
- - ---------~~~              ~   ~  ~   ~ - ................. ................. ..........   .. ....  ...j...           .
. --1---.---...  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .    .... . -.-. - -  .-..........  ......-.  -.  --................. .......- . ...  ...  .........   ......
ANTIOQUJA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qisania          29  51  V                        yletlccO     oevaluacion  ;Fidel Bohorquez C. I               -     Mnelme i                 1
Abiaq                                 ide proyactos                             JanJCiaa  G              I       ....         .      .min.
--  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -H ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ....  ..
... L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P !!c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~.     ..............  .... -.------   ...........
Thaii.agena  5  7  VI        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Identificaci6n y evaluaci6n de Fiohn BoCorvuaz C              I        Manlenimianto'          192
1 deproyactos..
C~~~A1LAS     Anserma    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~27, 29 VI     Idenfificacifn y evaluaci6n  d            Fidel Bohorquez C                1        Manteninniento          2 
Guaviare                         Proyactos- -.....-.- - .. ..... .-...  4.
GUAJIRA   __        Mana~~~~fibiouie      1 1JVDhniiaiO      eautind                                      J.de   Cohrquez C.  Iatnmino                                2.
.-.---.--.---.---.-..--. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Proyaclos                           Carlos------ E-ch............ev...en...............
en. Ia. zo..e...t.         e mn-                                                     ...                    .....
TOLIMA               Al~~~~~~~~~-:artco n  31, V- VI        identificaciOn y Evaluacn5n de pr-FiJ   ohn .Crvajal C.                      .      Mantenimiento~   1.2
---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..  .~~~~~~~~~~ .....    ..... ...       
ITOLIA -C                 unagu                2,5 - V    .     P     saisfi astuo i de tnlns ioayts    iFirad o Gohrquz C
I--                      -                                                  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ...... ...-----                   ............
VIC1-IAO  -   SantaRosalie        , 15-VI        iAdbenIiiaces y Ed le BrDe  r            CrosEhear  A2                              Reailtcn                 3
La Pnmavera  14  5- VI  ldeniifwaci6n y Evalus  de_pro    - Cdrios Echeverry A      1         RehabilitatiOn  -        15~~~~~. . ... ....
. ........ .... .......... ..TOTA                                                                    21a u_a_u_maS_ams
~~~CA~~~~~~~Nabiga~~~~~~~~~~~~~30-X-95carIosi                                                                _   ____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............. ....
~CCbs  An-in'-       2,.,      I ,   i, - -n -. ~ --ca--i6 . -y    v. - ac--i6,n     i  id  1B  ' -' P uR-'OM ''ED-MIteO 1.5ato                  --



C'ONCEPTOS
PROYECTOS PLANES E INVENTARIOS
CAPACITACION ENTES TERRITORIALES 1995 |
Dptos                D~~CAMINOS
CTSTO    1001o
/_                                  9~~~~~~~~~~~3.75% - GrEST. 1 0o |N
/  ---    -   ---    \                ~~~~~~30Dptos.  
PROYECTOS DE CAPACITACION
-- ----------..N -                                                  -8.            3
{E                                        .    ..................................... ,,. n- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ....
O :1NO PRESENTARO            2. 1 301,
srDptos
ESTUJDIADOS



Annex 1
Attachment 5
MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES                            Anexo 5
Subdireocion de Irgenieria                                     Cuadro 5.1
Division Programacion Fisica
RELACION DE DEPARTAMENTOS CON CONVENIOS INTERADMINISTRATIVOS
DE TRANSFERENCIA DE INFRAESTRUCTURA VIAL
DXPARTAMENTO  NUMERO   LONGITUD    KILOMKTROS    ACTA DE   PUBLICACION
CONVENJO INVENTARIAD   A TRANSFERIR  ENTREGA  DIARIO OFICIAL
ANTIOQUIA      309        2169.160       625.000      Si           SI
AMAZONAS       298          34.600         30.000     Si           Si
ATLANTICO      306         304.860        299.670     Si           Si
CALDAS        364         884.110       348.060      Si           Si
CASANARE       299         152.680         99.450  PENDIENTE       Si
CUNDINAMARCA    289         27e3.730        720.090     SI           Si
RISARALDA      300         484.240        516.690     Si           Sl
SUCRE        308         886.830        262.000     Si           St
TOLIMA        297       1604.650       1116.690     Si           Si
VALLE        307        1354.240        775.870     Si           Si
GUAVIARE       175                       120.000     Si           Si
MAGDALENA       172        1994.400       683.170     Si           Si
QUINDIO       170         721.750       369,300      Si           Si
VAUPES        174                        90.000     SI           Si
VICHADA        189                       470.000     Si           Si
N/SANTANDER                1249.490        501.250     NO           NO
CAUCA                   1456.820        522.630     NO           NO
SUBTOTAL                  16081.S60      7549.870    NO           NO
RELAClON DE DEPARTAMENTOS SIN CONVENIOS INTERADMINISTRATIVOS
DE TRANSFERENCIA DE INFRAESTRUCTURA VIAL
DEPARTAMENTO  NUMERO   LONGITUD    KILOMETROS    ACTA DE    PUBDLCACION
_ CONVENIO INVENTARIAD   A TRANSFlRIR  ENTREGA  DIAlO OFICIAL
ARALUCA        NO          33.300        33.300     NO           NO
BOLIVAR        NO        2148.360       1104.460    NO           NO
BOYACA        NO         3416.890      2544.608     NO           NO
CAQUETA        NO         1459.130      1459.130     NO           NO
CESAR         NO        1232.370        400.500     NO          NO
CORDOBA        NO         1166.510       412.350     NO           NO
CHOCO         NO         311.880        311.880     NO           NO
GUAINIA        NO         142.000        142.000    NO           NO
GUAJIRA        NO         581.450        581.450     NO          NO
HUILA        NO         1724.990       1287.260    NO           NO
META         NO        2024.770       1981 .330    NO           NO
NARPI?O       NO        1506.350       1506.350     NO           NO
PUTUMAYO        NO         385.020        385.020    NO           NO
SANTANDER       NO        t911.870       1581.710     NO           NO
SUBTOTAL                  18044.890     13719348     NO           NO
TOTAL                  34126.450      21269.218 J



Minbet-rlo de Transports
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINO VECINALES
Oficina do Planoaclon
Anexo 5
CONSOLIDADO  DEPURACION  DE VIAS   (llilesdeg)                                                    Cuadro5.2
ACTIVIDAD A EJECUTAR
DEPARTAMENT    LONG.   ME J O R A M I E N TO    MANTEN. PERIODICO             MANTEN. RUTINARI    VALOR
KMS        KMS        TOTAL        KMS        TOTAL        KMb       TOTAL        TOTAL
AMAZONAS            9Q000       IL000      120.000      12.000      60ooo      11000       12.000      192.000
NTIOQUIA            iooo    12M110    2,442.200       261.445    1i257.226    261.446    251.445    3,960.870
RAUCA              33.300      6.6       131200       11320        W6.600     13.320      11320       211120
TLANTICO          279.470      60.306    1,006062     13.7365     z6.76       89.430      89.430     1.794.197
BOLIVAR           1,004.460    197.838    3,967.36     404.796   2,023.980    401.796     401.796     6,383.136
BOYACA            2,544.B08    so5s=22   10,17a432    1,017.843   5,00.21i6  1,017.W43    1,017.843    16,285.491
ALDAS             348.060     24.968     409.360      1431394     716970    179608       179."6      1,390.028
AQUETA           1,460130    252.930     0506.600     60s0s    3,049.426    596315    s506315        8,704.340
ASANARE           215.150     56430    1,106.60        70.960     399.300     79.080      79.360     1,587.760
AUCA              622.630     90.920    1,018.400     241360    1,216.00    188.360      180.350     %223550
ESAR              400.600    16.500    3,60ooo        106SOO      53s150     110500      11.500     4,321.000
ORDOBA            412.350      62.470    1.049.400    164.940     S24.700    184.940     164.940     Z,630.040
UNDINAMARC    2,142.610    107.131    2,142.610    1,071.305   5,356         964.175     06175       8,463.310
HOCO              311.880     76.112    1,522.240     20M224    1,011.270     331514      33.514    2,567.024
UAINIA            142.0W0    122.000    2,440.000      10.000      50.000     10.000      10.000     2,5W00Q
UAJIRA            581.450    130.260    2,605200      229.220    1,146.100    221.970    221.970     3,973.270
UAVIARE           16S.00W      6160o    1,252000       56.200     281.000     46200       46200      1,579.200
HUILA             1,267.200    259.006    5,181.320    5115615    ,567.57S    494.67      494.679     8,2431574
MAGDALENA           521170    111634    2,252600       27&268    1,381.340    234.268     234.268     8S6a288
META              1,981.330    311.202    6,224.040    95L174   4,790.670    711.954      711.954    11,72,8s4
NARI?O             ,so50350    301.270    6025.400     602.S40   3,012.700    601540      60S40       9,60.640
NORTE DE SANT    s01.250    o6L.32    1,317.240        247.494    1,237.470    187.894     187.894    2,742.604
PUTUMAYO            385.020    130.600    ,611.200     170.110     85so s5     s4.3so      84.350     S46.100
UINDIO            309.300     36.o30     771600       197.545     987.725    131A25      131125      1,894SO
RISARALDA           516.00      61.570    1,231.400    39360    1,906900       61.740      B1.740     3,260040
GANTANDER         1,581.710    31&342    6,326.40       31684    3,1631420    63ne04      631664    10,122.944
SUCRE               555.420     3S.000     700.000 ,  230.160   1,400.300    240.260      240.260     2,341.060
TOLIMA            1,116.690    223.338    4,40670      446.676   2,233.360    446676      446.676     7,146.816
VALLE               77r.370     31845      671900      S21.728   2,60640    220.498       220.498     3,501038
AUPES              37.4S0       7.490     14.800       14.980      74.900     14.90       14.980      239.660
ICHADA            20S.000    20S.0Q0    4,100.000       0W0O           O       0.000 0     0.00000   4,100.000
TOTAL       22,604 108   4,181.794   33,03S.874   10,011.311   50,05%656   8,46S.004    8,456.004   142,147.434



- 61 -
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
FNCV prepared a comprehensive report on the execution of the project, which was furnished to the Bank in
Novewber 1996. This appendix includes Chapters 4 to 6 of such report. Chapter 4 summarizes the
outcome of an ex-post evaluation of a sample of 18 road construction and improvement subprojects.
Chapter 5 presents FNCV's Indicative Operational Plan. Finally, Chapter 6 concludes with FNCV
retrospective assessment of the execution of the project and the achievement of its development objectives.






MINISTERIO DE TRMSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
CAPITULO IV
EVALUACION ECONOMICA
4.1   SELECCION DE LA MUESTRA
Con el Credito BIRF 3157-CO, se adelant6 la ejecuci6n de 55 proyectos de construcci6n y
80 de mejoramiento, para un total de 135 caminos, de los cuales se tomaron 18 proyectos
para la muestra, (Ver mapa), 10 de construcci6n y 8 de mejoramiento, distribuidos en tres
regiones geograficas, asi:
REGION             CONSTRUCCION             MEJORAMIENTO              TOTAL
Costa Atlantica          3                        3                   6
Occidente                4                         1                  5
Centro Oriente           3                        3                   6
Orinoquia                0                        0                   0
Amazonia                 0                         1                  1
TOTAL                    10                        8                  18
La selecci6n de la muestra fue realizada teniendo en cuenta, aspectos como:
-  Dada la heterogeneidad del Territorio Nacional y por ello en busca de equidad
geografica, se trat6 en lo posible que estuvieran localizados en la gran mayoria de
Departamentos donde se efectu6 la categoria Obras Civiles.
Los 18 proyectos seleccionados conforman una muestra representativa de la totalidad de
los caminos ejecutados, ubicados en 3 regiones del Pais.
4.2 FACTORES CONDICIONANTES EN LA EVALUACION DE LA MUESTRA
En lo que respecta a los componentes del proyecto a nivel de beneficios y de costos, tanto
la evaluaci6n Ex-Ante- como la Ex-Post, parten de consideraciones diferentes, lo cual no
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRSPORTE
FtNDO NACIONAL DE CAMNOS VECINALES
les permite hacer los comparativos entre los indicadores arrojados en las evaluaciones, por
las siguientes razones:
- El desarrollo del flujo de Caja estimado en el estado de preinversi6n de los proyectos, no
correspondi6 al cronograma de inversi6n real efectuado en la etapa de ejecuci6n del
proyecto, trayendo esto como consecuencia un encarecimiento en los costos del proyecto y
por ende un factor negativo en el costo de oportunidad del proyecto.
- Las cantidades de obra determinadas en el estudio inicial, no correspondieron en la
mayoria de los casos a las cantidades de obra definitivas, en consideraci6n a que para el
estudio inicial no se contaba con los respectivos estudios de trazado y disenio.
- Por el proceso que vivi6 la Entidad en cuanto a su liquidaci6n y por ende la disminuci6n
de personal, la Oficina de Planeaci6n no contaba con los recursos humanos necesarios
para la realizaci6n de la evaluaci6n ex-post, lo que origin6 que la Gerencia General tomara
la determinaci6n de contratar la evaluaci6n de los estu  cfirmas consultoras externas.
4.3 ENCUESTA YANALISIS
Para la realizaci6n de4a encuesta Socio-Econ6mica se uizaron los formatos de captura
de datos en campo, igentes para las Entidades Crediticia y Creditaria, por contener todos
los aspectos integrales que nos permitieron determinarL ls beneficios y costos inherentes a
este tipo de proyectosy cnsecna nte la realiac6ln dela evaluacion Economica.
Las visitas a los camlinosse efectuarondurante lcs mersesde Junio y Julio de 1996.
Los puntos que se consideraron import ntes de aaizar y comparar con respecto a la
evaluaci6n inicial, fueron los siguientes: ij K 
- lnversi6n realizada por item.
- Metas fisicas alcanzadas en cada proyecto.0 ' '
- Cantidades de obra definitivas.
- Aspectos de producci6n; cultivos presentes, usos del suelo, sustituci6n y diversificaci6n
de cultivos, rendimientos de los productos, autoconsumo, costos de producci6n, precios de
venta en finca y mercado.
- Aspectos Demograficos.
- Aspectos Sociales (Presencia Institucional, necesidades basicas insatisfechas).
- Situaci6n geografica del proyecto.
- Aspectos politicos.
- Relaci6n Beneficio-Costo.
Ver Anexos 7 y 8
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
4.4 INVERSION REALIZADA
Se hizo el analisis de la inversi6n realizada en cada uno de los caminos seleccionados; con
base en las actas de recibo de obra, comparando la inversi6n programada con la ejecutada
en pesos constantes, los resultados de este analisis se muestran en el cuadro No. 12
Analizando los 18 proyectos de la muestra, podemos concluir lo siguiente:
Costo promedio por kil6metro Ejecutado en construcci6n $46.139.89 (en miles de $)
Costo promedio por kil6metro programado en construcci6n $60.010.25 (en miles de $)
Costo promedio por kil6metro ejecutado en mejoramiento $51.770.29 (en miles de $)
Costo promedio por kil6metro programado en mejoramiento $67.510.28 (en miles de $)
Podemos observar entonces, que los costos en construcci6n y: mejoramiento fueron del
77% de lo inicialmente programado. Esto debido a que en un alto porcentaje de los
caminos de la muestra, no se concluyeron por el proceso de transici6n vivido por la Entidad
y en algunos otros se realizaron otras actividades diferentes''a 'las inicialmente
programadas, y en algunas otras no se realizo el mantenimiento provisto por lo que los
caminos se deterioraron, trayendo como consecuencia -reinversiones en los proyectos lo
que lo que produjo un alza sustancial en el costo FINAL DEL PROYECTO.
La inversi6n TOTAL EJECUTADA en'los'caminos de la muestra fue de $8.702.578.000,
representados en 178.90 kilometros, que comparada con la inversi6n programada de
15.493.987.000 para una longitud.de 24.71 kilometros, representa un 60 % de la inversi6n
programada (Ver cuadro No 12).
4.5 METAS ALCANZADAS (LONGITUD)
Las metas fisicas alcanzadas fueron de 178.93 kil6metros, que comparadas con la
programada de 244.71 kil6metros, representan un porcentaje del 73%.
En la categoria de construcci6n se habia programado segun la muestra 136.86 kil6metros y
se ejecutaron 99.31 kil6metros lo que representa el 73% de lo programado.
En la categoria de mejoramiento se habian programado 107.85 kil6metros y se ejecutaron
79.62 kil6metros. ( Cuadro No.13).
4.6 IMPACTO SOCIAL
La ejecuci6n de carreteras veredales desde el punto de vista social trata del impacto de los
proyectos sobre el entorno y la poblaci6n beneficiada con la inversi6n.
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
IC          FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
La epoca de ejecuci6n del Credito 3157-C0, otorgaba un significativo grado de importancia
al aspecto social, compuesto entre otros por: Poblaci6n asentada en el area de influencia
directa del proyecto; servicios basicos con que contaba o no, dicha poblaci6n; servicios
tecnicos (Credito, Asistencia Tecnica), prestados o no, a estas comunidades y necesidades
basicas insatisfechas.
Los factores anteriormente mencionados han sido considerados en la evaluaci6n inicial y
se consider6 de extrema importancia allegar informaci6n sobre estos t6picos en la visita de
campo efectuada para la evaluaci6n ex-post.
La informaci6n recopilada en la muestra no pretende otorgar un analisis cuantitativo ni
cualitativo de la contribuci6n que seguramente debia generar la ejecuci6n de los proyectos,
pero indudablemente contribuyeron al mejoramiento en los indices y por lo tanto, calidad de
vida, en las comunidades beneficiadas por la ejecuci6n de los caminos veredales.
4.7 IMPACTO SOBRE LA PRODUCTIVIDAD
El analisis del impacto sobre la producci6n y la productividad generada por la ejecuci6n de
los proyectos financiados con el Credito 3157-CO, se presenta en terminos de beneficios
causados por el incremento en las areas agropecuarias, aumento en los rendimientos de
los bienes producidos en la regi6n, eliminaci6n de perdidas por falta de acceso a la zona
productora y disminuci6n del traqueteo de bienes. De la sumatoria de estas variables se
obtiene el valor agregado neto que reflejan en la medida de su valor, que los proyectos
tengan una mayor 6 menor rentabilidad.'
Buscando obtener un indicador de impacto, se le otorgo peso porcentual a los proyectos de
la muestra, tomando como base el areatcultivada sin ejecutar el proyecto y la cantidad de
hectareas incorporadas al culminar las obras.
Las diferencias entre las dos porcentualidades nos muestran que 12 de los 18 proyectos, o
sea un 67% arrojan unos cambios positivos, loque implica un impacto benefico al verse
aumentada proporcionalmente la producci6n en estas regiones, a raiz del uso de areas
potencialmente explotables.
No obstante los 6 proyectos restantes, a pesar de que muestran un resultado menor, no
implica que no hayan obtenido un impacto positivo en cuanto al desarrollo econ6mico de la
regi6n, pues no solo la incorporaci6n de area da esta posibilidad, puesto que el incremento
en los rendimientos de los bienes acarrean generaci6n de valores agregados.
Por tanto, existe una contribuci6n en terminos de conveniencia econ6mica en los
beneficios del proyecto representado en este item.
4.8 ANALISIS DE LOS INDICADORES DE BONDAD
Los indicadores de bondad interpretados como la optimizaci6n en el valor del recurso en su
menor uso altemativo (costo de oportunidad del dinero), esta determinado de acuerdo a la
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRMSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
metodologia utilizada para la evaluaci6n de la muestra por el valor presente neto, tasa
intema de retomo y la relaci6n beneficio/costo; interpretados desde el punto de vista de los
resultados, como la consecuencia de ejecutar una inversi6n producto del credito y que en
un menor tiempo determinado genere los mayores beneficios, utilizando como medida una
tasa de interes estipulada previamente por la Banca Multilateral.
Con base en lo anterior, en la muestra se puede ver que los mayores valores presentes
netos, se dieron en los proyectos de Palmar - Platanares, con 1.400 millones; El Pescado-
La Cumbre con 1.181 millones ,Santa Cruz-Socavones-Pendales con 605 millones, San
Pedro de Uraba-Valencia con 433 millones lo que representa el 58% del total del VPN de la
muestra. El primero de estos proyectos sustenta su VPN en la explotaci6n pecuaria, al
desestimular la producci6n Agricola de la regi6n, para dar paso a una tecnificada actividad
pecuaria que permiti6 unos mayores ingresos de los habitantes de esta zona.
En los otros dos proyectos se present6 un considerable incremento en las areas
adicionadas a la explotaci6n Agricola inicialmente existente.
Los 14 proyectos restantes de la muestra, se enmarcan en su rentabilidad econ6mica,
financiera y social con un buen rendimiento para la economia de las regiones objeto de
estos proyectos, en donde los beneficios obtenidos contribuyeron a un mayor aumento de
su producci6n y productividad, que indudablemente ha generado un mayor nivel de vida y
trabajo para la poblaci6n. (Ver cuadros No. 12).
Ademas, la relaci6n beneficio/costo de estos proyectos, nos indica que cada peso invertido
rindi6 beneficios de 1.78 pesos promedio.
Desde el punto de vista de la sociedad como un todo, podemos mirar la eficacia y
rentabilidad de la inversi6n en virtud de la viabilidad financiera de los proyectos de la
muestra representadas en los indicadores de bondad.
Esto nos indica la magnitud del rendimiento econ6mico sobre la producci6n agropecuaria y
la distribuci6n del ingreso que generan los beneficios a valor presente para cada uno de los
habitantes en la zona de influencia.
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
OFICINA DE PLANEACION
DOLIVAR                                 ATLANTICO
RIo Viejo- Cruce Romol Norosl             onto Cruz - Socavones - Pendoles
CORDOBA                                              MAGDALENA
MoFlto-SaBeralo del Vient                       Cristolino Alto -Lo Galoxia         AJR
Villa Nueva- La Culebrera
ANTIOQUIA - CORDOBA
Son Pedro de Urobd- Volencio
CALOAS                                                                            CEsAr
La Clora-L Trina- Gaspor- Guscol                                                 El Pescado- La Cumbre
CUNOINAJdARCA
San Nicolos- Honduras Bajo
NORTE DE SANTANDER
QUINDIO                                                                               Versolles- Playo Cotizo
Moravillas-EISalodo-Volledel Chiizo
H4UILA                                                                                   BOYACA
Avispero-Alto Horizonte-                                                                 Romiriqu-Son Antonio-Fotimno
Polmor- Plotonores
CAUCA
Dinde -ElIlao                                                                               TOLIMA
La Colonia -Alto Altamizol
NARINO
Remolino - Alt1miro
PUTUMAYO
Son Froncisco - Portochuela-Minchoy 
CAMINOS SELECCIONADOS  -  EVALUACiON EXPOST
CREDITO 3157 -CO



Ministerio de Transporte
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
Oficina de Planeaci6n
CUADRO No.12
RESUMEN GENERAL - EVALUACION EX-POST
CAMINO                          Long.   (kms)       Costo         ($ col)    Tipo de     VPN                 Benefici acosta   Observaciones
Inicial    Real     Real          Actual     Obra    Inicial *     Real      Inicial   Real
Remolino - Altamira                  7   10.59    550,613       1,010,118     C       44,929      85,982        1.42    1.08
Maravillas-el salado-valle del chili  8     5.7   570,115        634,486      C                   56,517                1.07
El pescado-la cumbre              29.6   14.59    428,197        248,576      C       49,022       1,181        1.44    4.46
Villanueva-la culebrera          21.26   10.91  1,064,310        450,909      C      110,807      62,053        1.55    1.15
Cristalina afta-la galaxia          10    4.19    719,439        456,236      C      198,844     266,931        2.42     1.6
Versalles-playa cotiza               7   15.36    760,356        312,059      C      127,642     290,215        2.05    1.58
La clara-la trina-gaspar             9      5.1   765,987        186,190      C       75,790      61,167        1.56    1.29
Dinde-el play6n                   26.5   18.39  1,566,321        574,769      C       83,977     262,918        1.37    1.33
Avispero-honzonte                 13.5    8.98  1,358,958        301,650      C      317,044     164,395        2.51     1.51
Palmar-platanares                    5      5.5   428,707        407,186      C       88,360       1,400        2.12    4.281
San pedro de uraba-valencia        5.5    4.42  1,398,563        697,890      M      134,117     433,840        1.21     1.32
Monitos-san bernardo del viento     21   13.37    845,178        863,158      M      179,062     313,967        1.39    1.16
San francisco-portachuelo-minchoy  4.45     3.3   402,215        409,208      M      183,731     126,403        2.41     1.33
San antonio-ramiriqul-fatima      31.5   18.07  1,009,265        456,236      M      1 66,324    217,207         1.3    1.48
San Nicolis-honduras bajo            5      4.1   332,250        215,210      M       80,837     187,232        1.47    2.95
La colonia-alto altamizal            7    19.9   568,654         329,039      M       76,282     843,594        1.89    3.65
Santa cnuz-socavones               3.4    0.17    149,466         18,500      M      110,560     605,724         2.6    4.17
Rioviejo-cruce ramal norosi         30   16.26  2,575,393       1,131,158     M      630,234     165,589         1.9    1.16
* Editor's Note: Figures in the "Initial Net Present Value" are in Colombian pesos at the timne of evaluation of each subproject (the evalu-
ations were undertaken between 1988 and 1992). For a comparison of the NPVs see Table 9 in Part H of the Report.



(     7j4                MINMSTERIO DE TRMSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
CUADRO No.13
METAS FISICAS ALCANZADAS - EVALUACION EX-POST
CONSTRUCCION
CAMINO               Long.   Expl.  0 de A Afirmado  Long.  % obra
Inicial                        promed.
Remolino - Altamira                  7      4.5     25        4   10.59     151
Maravillas-el salado-valle del chili  8     6-5    4.5      4.5     5.7   71.25
El pescado-la cumbre               29.6  10.32   23.02    14.16   14.59      49
Villanueva-la culebrera           21.26   12.68   11.84       0   10.91      51
Cristalina alta-la galaxia          10      3.5      6        3    4.19      42
Versalles-playa cotiza               7    13.4   18.5        17   15.36     219
La clara-la trina-gaspar             9      6.2      5              5.1      57
Dinde-el play6n                    26.5     11  26.75      33.2   18.39      69
Avispero-horizonte.                13.5      5   17.28      7.5    8.98      67
Palmar-platanares                    5      4.3    6.8       .5    .5.5    110
Total         :                  136.86    77.4  144.69   :49.2   94.20   68.83
MEJORAMIENTO                                           _____
San pedro de uraba-valencia         5.5    5.5    5.5         1:   4.42      80
Mofitos-san bemardo del viento      21      7.5     11      27   13.37       64
San francisco-itachuelo-minchoy    4.45     4.5   4.05     0 .15    3.3      74
San antonio-ra6  l31ma              31.5    1 1   19.72    28.1   18.07      57
San NicolAs-hondUr   a0o             5       5 _   M 3      4.2     4.1      82
La colonia-alto altamnizal           7  20.23       19;  20.61    19.9    284
Santa cruz-socavones                3.4      0     0.5        0    0.17       5
Rloviejo-cruce ramal norosif        30      18      15       15   16.26    54.2
,Total                           107.85   71.73   77.77    96.06   79.62   73.83
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



Me ISTERIO DE TRMSPORTE
wiE5~(    FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
CAPITULO V
PLAN INDICATIVO DEL FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
PLAN DE ACCION VIGENCIAS 1997 - 1998
FIN            INDICADORES                              VERIFICACION           SUPUESTOS
Objetivo                 En el horizonte de 2 afios:              ' Encuestas sobre      * Definir la participaci6n
satisfacci6n de       del FNCV en el Sistema
Mejorar el acceso de 1000 comunidades    necesidades en el    Nacional de
Mejorar las condiciones    (enti6ndase por comunidad la poblaci6n  area de los proyeotos.   Cofinanciaci6n.
de vida de la poblaci6n  residente en una vereda, caserio o
rural y facilitar su acceso    corregimiento de aproximadamente 200  * Datos de las      ' Clarificaci6n de
a los servicios basicos de   familias constituidas por 7 personas).  regionaleste        funciones entre el
salud, educaci6n,                                                 interventorias.        FNCV y FINDETER-
saneamiento y servicios    Disminuir los costos de transporte en un                      FCV
publicos (energia,       30%.                                     * Datos de la Oficina
acueducto, alcantarillado)                                        Central del FNCV        Definici6n
* Crear 2000 empleos temporales/aino por                       gubemamental sobre la
las obras a ejecutar.                   *Informaci6n de las    sostenibilidad del
Alcaldias y las       FNCV.
* Crear 9000 empleos permanentes a      veedurias.
traves del programa de microempresas                           ' Permanente apoyo del
para mantenimiento de las vias rurales                         Gobierno Nacional.
* Invertir $60.000 millones en obras
contratadas con contratistas locales y
participaci6n permanente de las
comunidades.
Componente vial:         En el horizonte de 2 arnos:              ^ Datos de Oficina     ' Programa de
Central y las         descentralizaci6n sigue
Mejorar caminos         ' Mejorar 2000 km                        Regionales             en marcha.
vecinales a nivel nacional
* Efectuar mantenimiento periodico de                            Se fortalece
Mantener caminos        4000 km al ano                                                  coordinaci6n con
vecinales a nivel nacional                                                               FINDETER.
* Efectuar mantenimiento rutinario de
20000 km al afno                                               *Clarificaci6n sobre la
red a cargo del FNCV.
* Los contratistas
locales se capacitan y
fortalecen sus
actividades.
' La inseguridad en las
areas rurales
disminuye.
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
Componente               En el plazo de 3 meses:                  Monitoreo por parte   Los mocanismos de
Instituclonal:                                                  de Ia Oficina Central    coflnanciaci6n
del FNCV              estimulan Ia
Reorganizaci6n del      Se define reorganizaci6n de la Entidad                       participaci6n de las
FNCV de acuerdo con la   (Oficina Central y Regionales).        * Informes de         autoridades regionales y
clarificaci6n de funciones                                      contratistas,         locales.
y papel asignado.       * Se Clarifica la red a cargo del FNCV  interventores y sedes
regionales del FNCV    Autoridades locales
Transferencia de vias a                                                              apoyan programas de
los Entes Territorales.  En el plazo de 6 meses:                  Registro de         microempresas.
Microempresas
* Asistencia Tecnica para    Se establece plan de capacitaci6n a nivel                * Recursos suficientes
fortalecer las autoridades   interno y para las autoridades regionales y    * Registro de  (aportes de la naci6n,
viales en el nivel regional   locales.                          contratistas y        cr6dito externo y
y local                                                         consuftores           cofinanciaci6n del Ente
Se tiene en funcionamiento 50                               territorial)
Fortalecimiento de     microempresas piloto para mantenimiento
contratistas locales.   rutinario.
Desarrollo e           * Se definen mecanismos de transferencia
implantaci6n de un      de vias.
programa de
microempresas para
mantenimiento rutinario 1S$ En el plazo de un ailo:
* Se tiene on funcionamiento 200
l.croempresas para mantenimiento
- rulnarlo
* 200 municipios quedan cubiertos por el
programa de microempresas.
300 munlctmos y algunos departamentos
reciben asistoncia t6cnlra en caminos
rurales.
Etn elpt~  do dois aijos:~
Se tienen en funcionamiento 900
microempresas (cubrimiento total,
asistencia tecnica a traves de las
regionales constftuidas)
Fuente: Oficina de Planeaci6n
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MFNISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
FONDO 4CIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
CAPITULO VI
CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
El credito cumpli6 con el Objetivo Social planteado en la evaluacion del mismo, como era el
apoyo al sector Agropecuario, especialmente en las areas de minifundio. En este sentido
las obras construidas contribuyeron a la reducci6n de los costos de transporte, estimularon
la incorporaci6n  de  areas  a  la  producci6n  de  bienes primarios, conilevando
fundamentalmente al mejoramiento de la calidad de vida de los habitantes asentados en
las regiones beneficiadas.
En terminos generales, la calidad de las obras recibidas fue buena. Los caminos que
fueron visitados para la muestra se encontraron en su mayoria en buen estado. Sin
embargo, en algunos .e. ellos se 'hace indispensable, .para que se pueda continuar
prestando un servicio adecuado, realizar labores de mantenimiento peri6dico o rutinario.
Caon Ia inversi rea;lizada en estos proyectos, se facilit6 Iia presencia del Estado en otros
campos tales 'como ..'educaci6n, Salud, Acueducto y .elecffficacin, -trayendo como
consecuencia'una disminuci6n en los indices de necesidades basicas insatisfechas.
Otro aspecto importante'.de resaltar es que con la construccion y/o mejoramiento de los
caminos se ha logradao una mejor' atencion al campesinado por parte de las entidades
encargadas de prestar'asistencia t6cnica, ya que se facilit6 el acceso a las zonas de
influencia.
Se not6 en la evaluaci6n Ex-post que ha aumentado la utilizaci6n del Credito por parte de
los campesinos, con el prop6sito de' ',vigorizar'lia actividad Agricola y/o Pecuara
incrementando para ello areas de producci6n oatecnificando sus cultivos.
En la actualidad existen centros de acopio y se han creado formas asociativas (Juntas de
Acci6n Comunal y Cooperativas) en las zonas de influencia de algunos de estos proyectos,
mejorando el grado de coordinaci6n y convivencia entre los habitantes de la zona, lo cual
genera mayor desarrollo.
Uno de los factores mas relevantes generado por la apertura de estas vias, lo constituye la
disminuci6n en el costo de transporte de los productos, puesto que se pasa del transporte
en mula al transporte motorizado, aumentando el margen de utilidad para el campesino.
Se encontr6 que a pesar de tratarse del mejoramiento de algunos caminos, en muchos
casos la poblaci6n se encontraba incomunicada pues las vias solamente estaban abiertas
sin tener obras de arte ni afirmado, lo que impedia el transito vehicular regularmente por
ellas, obligando a la permanente utilizaci6n de bestias para la movilizaci6n tanto del
personal como de la producci6n.
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRMSPORTE
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
La habilitaci6n de las vias mediante su mejoramiento, ha permitido la utilizaci6n regular y
permanente de vehiculos que facilitan el transporte de personal y la movilizaci6n de carga,
disminuyendose considerablemente no solo los costos de transporte sino el tiempo
requerido en los desplazamientos, lo que conlleva a una mayor oportunidad de
comercializaci6n de la producci6n.
La disminuci6n en los costos de transporte ha generado un excedente econ6mico en
beneficio de los campesinos, lo que permite mejorar sus condiciones de vida pues son
recursos que en su mayoria se destinan para la adquisici6n de productos basicos en la
canasta familiar, incluyendo dentro de ella productos nuevos para estas comunidades
como son los elementos de aseo.
La construcci6n de caminos o la rehabilitaci6n de los existentes han permitido la iniciacion
de otras obras de infraestructura basica como es la electrificaci6n que es uno de los
servicios mas apreciados por la comunidad, ya que les permite la adquisici6n de productos
perecederos diferentes a los producidos en la regi6n pues los pueden conservar en nevera.
Asi mismo en los climas calidos facilitan la utilizaci6n de ventiladores.
De la misma manera, ha facilitado la llegada de medios de comunicacion como son el radio
y la television, que  ha tDbeneficiado el autoestima de la comunidad al no sentirse
manipulados, pues dal recibir informaci6n permanente acerca de acaecer en el Pais y el
Mundo, los rriueve mayores sentimientos de solidaidad, aceptacion y/o rechazo que a su
vez les permite formarse criterios basados en una informaci6n,pluralista y no como sucede
en la mayoriaAde sitios donde no ha liegado la luz, siendo la opinion manipulada por los
miembros de Ia comunidad que tienen acceso a otras regiones mas desarrolladas y la
comunicaci6n de los sucesos de Colombia y el Mundo, se recibe por informaci6n verbal en
la que la mayoria de las veces se encuentra afectada por -a opini6n de los interlocutores.
Los resultados de la Post-Evaluacion de la muestra de proyectos, senalan que todos los
caminos evaluados siguieron teniendo una,,rentabilidad aceptable, si bien algunos de ellos
resultaron menos "Atractivos" que lo esperado.
En resumen, el programa esta cumpliendo con los objetivos trazados, generando desarrollo
Social y Econ6mico en las zonas de influencia, en beneficio de la Economia Social.
Es importante resaltar que hubo un desaceleramiento en la ejecuci6n de las metas fisicas
inicialmente provistas, a partir de 1993, debido al traumatismo vivido a nivel nacional que
genero la liquidaci6n del FNCV ya que los departamentos y municipios no tenian claro la
transferencia de recursos para que atendieran la red a nuestro cargo ademas de la no
garantia de recursos futuros, lo que finalmente aceler6 el proceso de deterioro de las vias,
sin que ninguna autoridad nacional tomara acciones para evitar tal fin.
Es importante para la buena ejecuci6n de un credito, que se establezcan entre todas
aquellas personas que intervengan en su administraci6n desarrollo ylo ejecuci6n unidad de
criterios a fin de que lo relevante para uno, igual lo sea para todos sin perder de vista la
clasificaci6n que por areas tenga que existir.
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.



MINISTERIO DE TRANSPORTE
IC           FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
Es indispensable que se creen sistemas de informaci6n en la Entidad que ejecute un
credito para asi tener acceso oportuno, veraz y confiable, que solo puede ser ofrecido
mediante un sistema previamente establecido a la ejecuci6n de un cr6dito.
Es fundamental para tener un control adecuado sobre el manejo y desarrollo de un credito,
fijar con anteriordad a la ejecuci6n del mismo, mecanismos de control que permitan
establecer la regularidad y buen manejo de los tramites, que por el mismo tenga que
efectuar la Entidad; no solo en lo relacionado al control de la ejecuci6n de las obras en si,
sino a los tramites y procedimientos administrativos que por el se generen en lo
relacionado con contrataci6n, adquisici6n, control de cuentas y pagos, servicio de la deuda
y en general las actividades que por su manejo se generen y asi lo acrediten.
Para obtener una mayor confiabilidad de los resultados arrojados por una evaluaci6n Ex-
post, es indispensable dejar transcurrir un tiempo adecuado entre la culminaci6n de las
obras y la posible generaci6n de beneficios producto de las inversiones, con lo cual se
obtendria una disminuci6n en los margenes de error al cuantificar los resultados finales.
AVENIDA CARACAS No.63-57 - TELEFONOS: 255 56 66 - 255 58 88 - 255 55 32 - SANTA FE DE BOGOTA, D.C.






I









u j
LbL
--:
Ff            5~~~~4
crf 0,             (   I
c:~~~~~~~I t 1
E1                (1)5>
cc  E-



