II                                          I
t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Cuirrency          -     Peso (Col$)
US$1               _     Col$ 378 (End of June 1989)
Col$ 1 million    -      US$ :.,645
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CFT                 Transport Finance Corporation
COLPUERTOS          Colombian Port Enterprise
CONPES              National Council for Economic and Social Policy
CORPES              Regional Planning Councils
DAAC                Administrative Department for Civil Aviation
DAINCO              Department for Intendencies and Commissariats
DIMAR               General Directorate for Maritime and Port Activitiee
DNP                 National Planning Department
ECOPETROL           Colombian State Oil Company
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
ESAP                Advanced School of Public Administration
FEDECAFE            Federation of Coffee Growers
FNC                 Colombian National Railways
FNCV                National Agency for Feeder Roads
FONADE              National Fund for Development Projects
GRANCOLOMBIANA      Grancolombiana Merchant Fleet
GRT                 Gross Regi3tered Tonnage
INCOMEX             Colombian Institute for Foreign Trade
INCORA              Institute for Agrarian Reform
IbPERENA            National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources
INTRA               National Institue for Transport
MOPT                Ministry of Public Works and Transport
PROEXPO             Export Credit Agency
SATENA              National Territories Air Services
SENARC              Shipping Service of the Colombian Navy
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONrLY
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower and Beneficiary: Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales (FNCV)
Amount:                    $55.0 million
Terms:                     Repayment in 17 years, inoluding 5 years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Proiect Objectives:        The project's main objective is to expand markets and
reduce poverty in rural areas by: (a) helping define
road management functions and responsibilities of
national, regional and local (municipal) authorities,
and developing their activities; (b) contributing to
implement key policies in the roads sector, including
decentralization of decision-making to local
governments, maintenance management, and investment
programming, coordination and resource mobilization;
(c) consolidating positive institution-building
advances in road management initiated under the
previous project (Loan 2668-CO); and (d) contributing
to finance a balanced four-year investment and
maintenance program.
Project Description:       The project is FNCV's 1990-1993 Investment and
Maintenance Program. The main components are: (a)
maintenance, including resurfacing works on 4,400 km
of roads; (b) improvement civil works along 1,650 km
of existing dry-weather roads, including completion
of bridges and drainage structures; (c) construction
civil works for 950 km of rural roads; (d) studies,
including the review of road-funding strategies and
engineering designs, and supervision of civil works;
(e) spare parts to rehabilitate and operate
maintenance equipment; and (f) training, technical
assistance and other service-   The project is based
on annually reviewed physical targets, expenditures
and financing levels, chosen in accordance with
agreed methods and criteria, an approach which
provides the flexibility to adapt to changing
developmental priorities, especially now that
coordination with local governments is mandated under
the new dee:euttalization scheme.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Proiect Benefits:          The project will directly benefit the rural
population and production by improving access to
social and market services, and lowering farners' and
consumers' transport costs. Fqually Important, it
will facilitate the decentralization process in the
roads sector, with FNCV, the regional and the local
authorities coordinating and jointly be.oming more
responsive to rural road needs and priorities.
Risks:                     The ability and readiness of local governments to
organize, develop technical capability and
effectively manage the local road network is
uncertain and carries some risk. The risk will be
reduced by (a) drawing up, irmplementing and
monitoring annual action programs, tailored to each
local administration and acceptable to the Rank,
aiming to achieve full-fledged transfer of road
maintenance responsibilities; and (b) linking FNC'
cofinancing to performance in implementing euch
action programs.
Estimated Project Costs:             Foreign        Local        Total
-$m----------  Million)---------
Civil Works and Maintenance          67.5          59.9        127.4
Engineering Designs and
Civil Works Supervision              4.2           5.1          9.3
Training, Technical Assistance
and Other Services                   0.8           0.9          1.7
Equipment Repairs and Spare Pa-ts    1.0            0.4          1.4
Total Base Cost (mid-1989 prices)   73.5           66.3        139.8
Physical Contingencies                5.0           3.9          8.9
Price Contingencies                   5.4           3.0          8.4
Total Project Cost                   83.9          73.2        157.1
Financing Plan:                       Foreign         Local       Total
---------…(S mill/on)----------
Proposed IBRD loan                    55.0           --          55.0
Existing External Financing           11.9           --          11.9
Local funds                           17.0          73.2         90.2
Total Financing                      83.9          73.2        157.1



Estimated Disbursements:
B,.nk PY               1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
(-S-----------(S million)-----------------
Annual                  9.1    7.5    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.6
Cumulat!ve                 9.1   16.6   24.3   32.0   39.7   47.4   55.0
Rate of Return:            A minimum of 12Z required for civil works sub-project
components in the annual program, based on agreed
economic and technical criteria. The ERR for civil
works included in the fiist year (1990) is 20Z.
Map: IBRD 21700



COLOMBTA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY ................................          (i)
T.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                       ....    1
A. Backgrod ...                                                     1
B. The Transport Systemy sm......                                  2
C.  Institutional Organization in the Transport Sector             3
D.  Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales        .      .            4
B. Bank Involvement in the Sector .                .                6
F. Country-Sector Strategy           ..                             7
II.    MAIN ROAD SECTOR ISSUESS.....E..        ... ... .... ...            8
A. Institutional Organization.                       ...    8
B. Inter-Agency Coordination ...                                   9
C. Maintenance Management. . ...    9
D.  Planning and Funding of Expenditures         ....             10
III.   THE PROJECT ..........................................................    11
A. Project Origin and Objectives                .       .         11
B.  Project Description ..................................    12
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .......................    16
D. Description of Costs and Financing of Loan
Components           ..... .................    16
E. Environmental Considerations and Economic
Justification                     ..                         19
F. Assessment of Issues and Risks               .       .         20
Continued
This report was prepared by Alberto Paz Estenssoro (transport economist) on
the basis of missions to Colombia during April and July 1989.   The
missions comprised Messrs. A. Paz Estenssoro (mission leader) and J. Alonso
Biarge (road engineer).



IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS ...... ........ ** ...........   21
A.  Sub-project Selection ................................    21
B. Implementation and Procurement .. ....... * .............   22
C. Disbursements, Accounting and Auditing ...............   25
D. Monitoring ...........................................   26
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS                      .....                       26
A. Agreements Confirmed .................................   26
B. Recommendation              ..28
LIST OF TABLES
1   Domestic Transport Demand (1980-1985)
2   FNCV'S Road Network by Regional Jurisdiction
3   Fleet of Road Vehicles by Type of Service (1985)
4   Past and Ongoing Operations in Transport
5   Project Costs
6   Physical Targets of the Project
7  Annual (1990) Routine Maintenance Program
8  Annual (1990) Periodic Maintenance Program Under FNCV's Force
Account Effort
9  Annual Provision (1990) for Emergency Maintenance of Roads
.0 FNCV'S Sources and Application of Funds
11 First Year Civil Works Program
12 Loan Disbursement Schedule
ANNEXES
1.     Summary of Decentralization Measures
2.     Regulation for Regional Coordination of the Roads Sub-sector
3.     Cofinancing Regulations for Local Governments
4.     Outline of Procedures for Selecting Construction and Improvement
Sub-projects, including Environmental Criteria
5.     Outline of Terms of Reference for Coordinating Technical Assistance
to Local and Regional Administrations
6.     Outline of Terms of Reference %or the Study of Road-Funding
Strategies
7.     Schedule of Main Events
8.    Project File Documents
CHARTS
1      Institutions with Involvement in the Transport Sector
2      FNCV's Organizational Structure



COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.       Background
1.01     Colombia has grown over the past 10-15 years, under careful macro-
economic management, at what by current Latin American standards is a
satisfactory rate.  The Government's strategy is to gradually open up trade,
sustaining export expansion and diversifying out of coffee, avoiding
excessive dependence on a single commodity subject to wide international
price fluctuations.  Such policies are expected to provide a more stable
base-source of foreign exchange earnings.
1.02     Beginning in the early 1950s, considerable effort was placed on
developing the transport network to provide access to productive regions and
populated centers, and to handli foreign trade and passenger flows.
Throughout the 19609, while transport was in its period of most intense
development, the sector accounted for up to 602 of public sector investment,
but ita share gradually declined to 25Z in the 1970s and to about 152 in the
1980-1987 period.
1.03     Despite efforts to improve the basic infrastructure, transport costs
remain high, reflecting not only the difficult physical characteristics of
the country, the lack or shortage of modern transfer and transport
facilities, and the generally low efficiency of operators, but also the fact
that the investment drive has not been balanced: infrastructure for farm-to-
market access and intra-regional connections was not given the some priority
consideration as for inter-regional connections and, today, are the weaker
links in the domestic transport system. Access to many regions remains
difficult in wet months, constraining agricultural and social development,
because bridges and all-weather pavements have not yet been built. Rural
transport services have also not evolved adequately, as consequence of poor
secondary and feeder road infrastructu.e, and regulations that limit the
market availability of vehicles to favor the highly protected vehicle
assembly industry. Furthermore, maintenance of transport infrastruct.re,
facilities and equipment received insufficient attention and funds. Hence,
transport remains a development constraint in Colombia.
1.04     The Government's 1987-1990 Development Plan recognizes the
importance of providing access to rural areas which lack it, of improving the
utilization of existing transport infrastructure capacity through adequate
maintenance, and of facilitating external competitiveness through the
provision of modern and efficient terminals. The success of the Government's
macro-economic and social policies hinge, to a certain extent, on the
country's ability to haul goods efficiently, both within and to and from
Colombia. To this end, aggressive programs of rural road construction,
improvement and maintenance, and of rehabilitation and mainteuance of the



- 2 -
main national highway network have been recently started by the National
Agency for Feeder Roads (FNCV) and the Mir-istry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT), respectively.
1.05     Over the medium term, the Government's policies in transport are to
preserve the capital stock in trcansport and continue to contribute to
regional development and expansion of foreign trade. The progressive
upgrading of rural roads to standards that allow their maintenance along with
the actual carrying out of maintenance activities involves increasing and
continuous labor-absorbing work. At the same time, studies are being
conducted to support decisions to modernize operations and expand capacity at
ports, to strengthen the involvement of departments and municipalities in
road activities, especially maintenance management, in the context of the
administrative decentralization process underway, and to streamline
regulations which affect transport.
B.       The Transport System
Gener&l
1.06     Data on total freight and passengers mobilized in the country are
not reliable. INTRA estimates that in 1985 some 60 million tons were handled
by the domestic transport system, of which a recent study conducted for FNC
estimates that rail, road and river traffic reached some 35 million tons.
The average freight transport distance for the three modes combined was 740
km, reflecting the long distances that most freight has to travel in
Colombia. Road transport absorbs 902 of the total tonnage and traffic units
(ton-km). An estimated 397 million passengers were handled by the transport
system in 1985, with 53 km as average trif length. Again, road transport has
the highest share, about 99Z of passengers and traffic units (passenger-km)
of all three surface modes. Table 1 shows how traffic evolved in recent
years.
Roads and Road Transport
1.07     About 108,000 km of all types of roads are estimated to exist in
Colombia. Of this total, 10,385 km are paved (102), 66,930 km (62Z) are
gravelled, and 30,700 km (28Z) are natural earth roads. From an
administrative point of view, 26,000 km are classified as national highways,
with MOPT being responsible fo- their maintenance (para. 1.09).  The rest of
the networ. is not classified, responsibilities are not defined, road
characteristics are only partially known, and specialized un'ts do not
generally exist in the regional and local administrations. The overall
consequence is that maintenance on about 82,000 km (76? of the total network)
is either performed poorly or not performed.
1.08     Both freight and passenger road services are regulated by the Code
of Trade, which INTRA and the regional and local administrations enforce.
Route assignment, monitoring of services, and rate making have, however,
recently been decentralized to local governments. There are 1.2 million
vehicles registered in Colombia, but the number in actual use is not known as
those scrapped are not reported. Information for 1985 (Table 2) indicates
that 76Z of the vehicles were for private use, 21? for public use and 32 for
Government service. Public transport services are provided by private



- 3 -
companies operating in a highly regulated environment: market entry is
controlled, only companies are authorized to supply services, types of
services are narrowly defined, and limited class of vehicles are permitted.
Studies under the on-going Loan 2829-CO will evaluate and recommend the
necessary reforms. The fleet is predominantly made up ef single-axle
vehicles.
C.       Institutional Organization in the Transport Sector
1.09     Transport management in Colombia, to a large extent, falls under the
policy authority of MOPT, wihh the major exceptions of: (a) secondary roads,
nominally under regional jurisdiction; (b) municipal roads, nominally under
1,040 local governments in the country; and (c) aviation, under the
Administrative Department for Civil Aviation (DAMC). In addition, MOPT is
directly responsible for the construction and maintenance of the country's
national highway network. An autonomous national agency, FNCV, is
responsible for rural road construction, improvement and maintenance to
supplement the insufficient and often non-existent capacity in departments
and municipalities to provide such services. Other sector operations and
planning at national level are delegated to several parastatal and autonomous
agencies, including: the Colombian Port Enterprise (COLPUERTOS), which owns
and operates the public sector ports; the Colombian National Railways (FNC),
which owns and operates the railva, system; and the National Inqtitute for
Transport (INTRA), partly responsible for road transport regulation and
enforcement.
1.10     Road, air and water transport se-,vices are predominantly supplied by
the private sector supplemented, in t'+  .sse of services to remote areas with
low traffic demand, by the Shipping S, -r ces of the Colombian Navy (SENARC)
and the National Territories Air Services (SATENA), both under the Ministry
of Defense. This Ministry also regulates maritime operations through its
General Directorate for Maritime and Port Activities (DIMAR), and road
construction activities of the Department of Military Engineers, whether
carried out directly or as contractors. Chart 1 shows the agencies involved
at the different jurisdictional levels.
1.11     The Ministry of Economic Development regulstea the assembling of
vehicles in Colombia, determines and approves the import quotas, and
establishes and controls prices of some transport inputs. The Colombian
Institute for Foreign Trade (INCOMEX) is responsible for discretionally
setting import priorities and allocating licenses by class of goods within a
quota regime and after ensuring full protection to the domestic industry.
This licensing arrangement imposes constraints, among others, on the road
vehicle fleet characteristics and the operiting costs. The Export Credit
Agency (PROEXPO) carries out transport facilitation studies and provides
financing to support the resulting measures, and the Transport Finance
Corporation (CFT) provides financing for purchases of transport equipment and
construction of passenger terminal buildings.
1.12     Also at the national level, the Planning Department (DNP) reviews
the transport sector programs, including investments, and proposes new or
revised sector policies to the highest economic decision body in Government,
the National Council for Economic and Social Policy (CONPES). Each agency or
mode plans its own activities, sometimes with inadequate interaction with



other sector agencies and modes. In the past, an unsuccessful attempt was
made to correct this situation by establishing the National "ransport
Council, an ad-hoc group formed with representatives of sector agencies that
has seldom convened. A more strategically focused transport plan, programmed
to be carried out by MOPT in 1989 with assistance from consultants under Bank
financing (Loan 2829-CO), is expected to foster the required coordination
effort.
1.13     At the regional level, the Secretariats for Public Works and the
Transport Directorates are the main institutions with roles in transport
within each department, intendency and commissariat.1 The Ministry of
Agriculture, the Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA), the Fund for
Integrated Rural Development (DRI), as well as the Administrative Department
for Intendencies and Commissariats (DAINCO) and the local governments, which
since this year are headed by elected mayors, are also involved in transport,
especially in roads and road transport services, though the network over
which they should be responsible for maintenance is not defined. Moreover,
in coffee producing areas, associations of producers also play, by default,
an important role in road maintenance and improvements.
D.       Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales
Organizational and Operational Assessment
1.14     FNCV was created in 1960 ai part of MOPT's organizational structure.
In 1972, it was reorganized as an autonomous agency. It is governed by a
seven-member board chaired by the Minister of Public Works and Transport; its
other members are representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Interior and the Federation of Coffee Growers (FEDECAFE). s1&nagement is
carried out by a Director General who is appointed by Presidential Decree and
is assisted by a General Secretary (functioning as Deputy Director General),
two supporting units (Planning and Legal), and two line Sub-directorates
(Engineering and Administration). Chart 2 shows FNCV's present organization.
The Sub-directorate for Engineering is responsible for technical matters
related to programming, execution and monitoring of road works, including
those carried out through the 25 Regional Offices. The Sub-directorate for
Administration monitors budget and cost accounts, stores and personnel.
1.15     Road works are generally carried out by FNCV through small Colombian
civil works contractors. The average construction and improvement contract
is for about 15 km, and that for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation is
for about 100 km. Scattered small road civil works, including routine
maintenance works, and works in remote regions where tendering is not
efficient are undertaken through direct contracts or FNCV's own force account
effort, for which it owns a fleet of 917 units. FNCV's arrangements for
contract administration are adequate, especially afte: the technical
assistance provided in 1988-1989 under the BaLk's Rural Transport Sector
Project (Loan 2668-CO). This assistance has strengthened the management
1/    All three are territorial jurisdictions, classified differently
according to population and other distinctive characteristics, and
headed by appointed Governors or equivalent, under the authority of the
Ministry of Government (internal affairs).



- 5 -
system, through basic economic and engineering studies, improved supervision
and monitoring of works, and better coordination between headquarters and the
regional offices. A key step in this process that improved the quality and
management of works was FNCV's decision to contract out most detailed
engineering and works supervision to local consulting firms.
1.16     Efforts to improve management of FNCV's force account works,
including maintenance, have not been as successful, for lack of adequate
information and monitoring of the regional offices. This situation, however,
is being corrected: (a) a detailed physical and condition inventory of some
25,000 km of roads, the length and geographic distribution of which is given
in Table 3, has recently been prepared to provide the foundation for a
realistic maintenance program; (b) a maintenance and equipment management
system has been developed and is being implemented; and (c) appropriate cost
accounting records are beginning to be kept, monitored and used, supported by
the technical assistance consultants under Loan 2668-CO. Moreover, in
preparing for this next project, FNCV requested and obtained Government
approval to establish and adequately staff a division responsible for
maintenance of FNCV's network of roads, and for assisting the local
governments to develop maintenance management (paras. 1.17, 2.05 and 3.06).
1.17     FNCV has 2,300 employees, 600 of whom are hired for a fixed term.
About two thirds are field laborers and some 102 are professional and higher-
level staff. Close to 902 work in FNCV's regional offices. The revised
organization, which will basically strengthen the regional offices and create
the Maintenance Division (paras. 1.16, 2.03 and 2.05) will increase the
number of staff by about 22.
Programmin& and F'nancinR
1.18     Road investment and maintenance expenditures by MOPT and FNCV in
1986 were $309 million, with 87Z spent on national highways and 132 on rural
roads. This level of annual expenditure is adequate for maintenance and
rehabilitation of the two networks; additional funds are needed, however, for
upgrading and expansion requirements, mostly in rural roads. Maintenance
funding requirements alone for the rewRinder of the rural roads in Colombia,
if they had been built to suitable engineering standards, would be of the
order of $110 million. It will not be possible to reliably program road
works and assess overall funding requirements until completion of the
physical and condition inventory of all the roads in Colombia and the
subsequent classification and allocation of management responsibilities
between administration levels, which are objectives of the project (paras.
3.02 and 3.27).
1.19     FNCV's activities have been funded through a combination of
resources, namely (a) Central Government contributions; (b) a share from the
National Roads Fund and the Civil Aviation Fund; (c) earmarked taxes on beer
consumption and road improvement-related increased property values; and (d)
external and domestic loans. Over the 1980-1987 period, Central Government
contributions, which are grants from general revenues, averaged 272 of total
resources (17Z, if 1987 is not taken into account, given that year's
extraordinarily high Central Government contribution toward road expenditures
under the National Rehabilitation and Fight Against Poverty P:ograms). The
main source of funding during the sdme period was the share allocated to FNCV



-6-
each year from the National Roads Fund, by law up to 102 its total amount,
which is based on part of the motor fuel consumption tax revenues and which
represented 432 of the agency's funds (572, if 1987 is excluded). Earmarked
taxes averaged 42 of the total funding available during 1980-1987 (52, if
1987 is excluded), and external loans represented 21Z (162, if 1987 is
excluded). The rest had different sources, generally agreements with
regional and local governments, and coffee growers' associations.
1.20     The amount of funds which regional and local governments spend on
rural roads is not known, though construction seems to have taken preeminence
over maintenance. FNCV's fund allocations in the past were based on
community requests for road works which assigned priority to opening up of,
and upgrading access to rural areas, and not on knowledge of the network's
physical condition. Data from the condition inventory of about 25,000 km of
rural roads show that past investment efforts were not balanced between
construction, improvement and maintenance activities, but rather focused on
extending the network, even to the point of constructing roads with
insufficient technical specifications which were later difficult to maintain.
This situation defines, to a large extent, the main priority which is to
program the improvement of a large part of FNCV's network, and subsequently
to maintain it.
1.21     Taxes on motor fuels, together with import duties and sales taxes on
vehicles, spares and tires, tolls and license fees, constitute the system of
road user charges in Colombia. A recent (1988) MOPT study estimated that
revenues obtained through road user charges exceed by about 202 the
associated costs of maintaining, rehabilitating and upgrading the whole
network of roads, and are a source of general Government funding. Actual
expenditures are, however, below requirements (para. 1.18). In the case of
the national highway network, for which complete data are available, revenues
from road user charges are about 502 above the corresponding costs. There
is, however, a cross-subsidy element: light vehicles pay well above their
costs and heavy vehicles fall short of covering them.
E.       Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.22     The Bank has played a major role in the development of Colombia's
transport system. Since 1950, about $968 million have been lent for 20
transport projects, of which $562 million were for highways, $197 for
railways, $125 million for rural roads, $61 million for aviation, and $43
million for ports. About $58 million of the tutal lending were cancelled, of
which the bulk (952) corresponded to railway loans. Table 4 lists the past
and on-going operations in the transport sector. The main strategy of the
Bank's lending has evolved from the support of capital-intensive
infrastructure projects to the growing emphasis on, and support for
institutional strengthening, improved management of sector agencies, and
rehabilitation and maintenance of the infrastructure capital stock. Lending
for highways and roads has also evolved from specific investment to sector-
type or program financing, and performance of these projects is, overall,
positive. Such change in strategy has not been possible to achieve in the
railways sector, notwithstanding the support of seven Bank-financed
operations that performed poorly.



- 7 -
1.23     Besides supporting construction and improvement of rural roads
through six Agricultural Projects, the Bank has approved two sector loans
with FNCV as borrower and executing agency. The first one (Loan 1966-CO, $33
million, 1981) financed part of a program of road construction and
rehabilitation, the purchase of maintenance equipment and tools, and the
provision of technical assistance to strengthen the administration. The
project was successfully completed. The respective Project Completion Report2
highlights that implementation proceeded without major obstacles, albeit with
delays caused by difficulties in providing local funds, and that adequL
attention was given to the institutional aspects of the project. The follow-
up operation (Loan 2668-CO, $62 million, 1986) is financing part of FNCV's
program of construction, improvement and maintenance, the purchase and repair
of equipment, and consulting services to supervise civil works and
technically strengthen the agency. Implementation is proceeding well and
ahead of schedule, as counterpart funds have been strongly supplemented under
two key programs of the present administration: the National Rehabilitation
and Fight Against Poverty Programs. Host project objectives have largely
been achieved even before the project is completed.
F.       Country-Sector Strategy
1.24     The Bank's medium-term strategy for Colombia stresses revitalizing
growth, maintaining external balance and creditworthiness, reducing
unemployment and strengthening domestic resource mobilization. Implicit in
these strategies is the need to sustain export expansion, accelerate
investments, especially ptivate investments, have a competitive and flexible
labor market, and strengthen supply-oriented policies without relaxing
control over demand. Poverty alleviation strategies are also strongly
endorsed by the Bank.
1.25     For transport, a development letter submitted by the Government to
the Bank in April 1987, during negotiations of the Second National Highways
Sector Project (Loan 2829-CO), emphasizes a strategy for policy reform and
institution building based ons (a) balanced use of existing transport
alternatives, through adequate price signals to users and improvements in
marketing and distribution arrangements; (b) equitable treatment of modes and
users of infrastructure, through cost-based pricing policies; (c) lower
transport costs, by improved modal interfaces and higher efficiency in
managing and regulating operations; (d) adequate investment priority to
export development, agricultural diversification and energy conservation and
substitution, with emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance; (e) increased
role of the private sector, whenever comparative advantages prevail; and (f)
development of institutional and human resources, through comprehensive
training programs. Measures, in line with these policies, are being actively
pursued with Bank support.
1.26     The Second National Highways Sector Project is helping to strengthen
MOPT through financing part of its multi-year paving, rehabilitation and
highway safety programs. In addition, financing is being provided for
technical assistance, training, and procurement of equipment. Implementation
of this project is proceeding as programmed. FNCV's institutional
implementation capacity has been strengthened and its multi-year investment
2/ Dated July 28, 1988.



program accelerated through the Rural Transport Sector Project. This project
is expected to be completed two years ahead of schedule. The third on-going
project, Forts Rehabilitation, provides financing for repairs and
reconstruction of quays, storage areas a,nd utilities, cargo handling
equipment, and consulting services for technical assistance, studies and
training.
1.27     The subject of this report, the Second Rural Roads Sector Project,
was programmed for an estimated $80 million loan. CONPES, however, when
authorizing FNCV in late 1988 to request external financing from the Bank,
set the loan amount at $55 million, based on overall public debt-management
considerations and concerns as to the ability of the Central Government to
contribute from general revenues to the project's counterpart funding. A
third highway sector project is being prepared with an estimated $200 million
loan. If it goes ahead, this project will provide for maintenance and
completion of rehabilitation of the main highway network. Finally, a
proposed Departmental Road Maintenance Project is under preparation, which
will address the maintenance of secondary regional roads in a sample of
departments. The roads sector will then have in place --which is the Bank's
sector strategy-- a solid institutional base, with well-defined
responsibilities: MOPT responsible for the national (primary) highways,
regional governments for departmental (secondary) roads, and local
governments, with help from FNCV, for municipal (tertiary) roads. Other
projects would then follow to consolidate and expand the experience gained,
and to address the transport needs of foreign trade and the domestic
distribution of goods.
II. MAIN ROAD SECTOR ISSUES
2.01     Several issues relating to institutional organization, inter-agency
coordination, maintenance management, planning and funding of expenditures
have been identified in the rural roads sector.  The broad country issue of
administrative decentralization to local governments has also a major bearing
on the solutions of sector issues, and efforts to implement a rural roads
system for planning, scheduling, executing and costing maintenance
operations, which began to be addressed under the Rural Transport Sector
Project (Loan 2668-CO), need to be sustained.
A.       Institutional Organization
2.02     As indicated above (paras. 1.07 and 1.09), responsibility for
construction, improvement and maintenance of roads other than the national
highways is not defined in Colombia. A recent survey found that besides
departments, commissariats, intendencies and municipalities, about 15 other
institutions are involved with road construction and maintenance works. The
lack of clear definition of functions and responsibilities is likely to have
caused the long neglect of maintenance on secondary and rural roads. In
order to address the institutional-organizational problem, key information is
needed about the length, characteristics, condition and type and volume of
demand attended by each of the roads in the network which is not part of the



national system under HOPT. A part of these data has been collected and
processed in the course of project preparation, and the remainder will be
completed during the implementation phase (para. 3.27).
2.03     An important concern during project implementation was the need to
program a practical and coherent implementation of the Government's
administrative decentralization policy in the rural roads sector,
notwithstanding the lack of basic data and a framework of well-defined
functions and responsibilities among the institutions involved. The main
decentralization regulations and actions undertaken and programmed to be by
the Government are summarized in Annex 1. After careful study of these
measures, FNCV decided that, for its dialogue with local governments to be
fruitful, its regional offices needed to be strengthened with sufficient
delegation of authority, qualified staff, procedures and resources for
providing technical assistance to local governments, ensuring adequate
intergovernmental coordination, and supporting a rational decision-making
process (paras. 1.17, 3.04, 3.17 and 3.2C). The Bank agrees and will support
this process with this project.
B.       Inter-Agency Coordination
2.04     Of particular importance is the need to develop aLd implement clear
arrangements to coordinate road investment and maintenance decisions. This
need became more crucial after the central Government decided in 1988 to
transfer value added tax revenues to local governments and simultaneously
required FNCV and local authorities to agree on priorities and cofinancing of
rural road works. Furthermore, as no mechanisms were established and in
place to effectively promote and achieve coordination among local and
regional governments, other agencies and iNCV, these were developed by the
latter to frame its dialogue and cofinancing of mutually agreed investment
and maintenance activities. The corresponding regulation issued is
summarized in Annex 2. The roles of the existing Regional Planning Councils
(CORPES), the National Fund for Development Projects (FONADE), the
Departmental Investment Funds, and the recently created Territorial
Development Corporation need equally to be adjusted; work on this is in
progress.
C.       Maintenance Management
2.05     An area with clear scope for improvement is that of road maintenance
management. A first step is to inventory the physical and condition
characteristics of all the road network and identify the needs of each
administrative level and individual jurisdiction. On this basis a
quantitative and qualitative assessment of technical staff, equipment and
funds available for maintenance then needs to be carried out. This
information, to be obtained under the project (paras. 3.04 and 3.05), will
also allow the required institutional strengthening of the local road
administrations to be programmed, with emphasis on maintenance by contract,
and the eventual and gradual phasing out of FNCV from such activities.
Moreover, (as indicated in paras. 1.16 and 1.17), in the course of project
preparation, FNCV made progress in establishing a Maintenance Division, with
full responsibility for maintenance planning and management, including



- 10 -
updating the field inventory, developing and implementing key management
systems, monitoring implementation of the maintenance program, and assisting
local governments to develop and upgrade their road maintenance capabilities
to eventually meet the assigned responsibilities (Annex 1 and para. 3.10).
2.06     The different institutions involved also need to coordinate their
management efforts if they are to carry out maintenance to acceptable,
country-wide standards of service, avoid duplication of field facilities
including workshops, and efficiently use the specialized labor and equipment.
At present, there are notorious inefficiencies caused by lack of
coordination, for example: programming construction of the same or competing
rural roads; tertiary rural roads with the same or higher engineering
standards than more important secondary collector roads; and equipment fleets
with an inappropriate mix of the different types of units, poorly suited to
maintenance activities, and with low utilization rates. Additionally, MOPT
has 23 regional distr.ict offices, each one staffed and possessing equipment,
workshop facilities and stocks of spare parts, and operating in practically
the same locations where FNCV's regional offices are established. Though
information is sketchy and unreliable, all departments, commissariats and
intendencies, and a large number of local governments also have workshops,
mechanics, spare parts, tools and equipment of their own.
2.07     Routine maintenance activities on the secondary and rural road
network, when performed, are mostly undertaken directly by FNCV and the
regional and local road entities. As an exception, limited maintenance is
carried out by "lengthmen", that is, peasant workers contracted to assist in
maintaining short sections of roads. As routine maintenance has not been
perceived as a priority activity and its execution has not been based upon an
adequately prepared and monitored program, there is little awareness of costs
and accountability, The lack of data on costs and actual maintenance work
performed by FNCV's regional offices and regional and local administrations
do not allow any meaningful quantitative assessment of costs and
effectiveness.
D.       Planning and Funding of Expenditures
2.08     FNCV's arrangements for selecting and programming works on rural
roads are changing as a result of the decentralization process. Requests
formulated by communities, local governments and other regional bodies as
well as assessments made by FNCV's regional offices used to be the bases for
identifying possible road works, but the initiative has now been placed
squarely on the local governments. Each local government is expected to
identify possible road works and FNCV, jointly with other agencies involved
and regional authorities, is expected to review them, formulate alternatives,
estimate costs and program the required actions, including studies, leading
to execution. To this end, specific methods and decision-making criteria
have been developed as part of the project preparation to evaluate and
determine priorities of different road expenditures (Annex 4), ensure
coordination and secure financing (Annex 3), and establish the scope of the
required engineering studies.
2.09     The budgetary process in Colombia, as it applies to public national
entities, has serious implications for management of the highways and roads
sectors because of its lack of flexibility. Notwithstanding a recent



- 11 -
revision to link the budget to investment and medium-term financing programs,
the process is based on initial quotas cet for each agency's current and
capital expenditures, after global revenues have been estimated on accrual
methods for the fiscal year. FNCV, as other agencies, prepares then a
detailed draft budget with funds for capital expenditures allocated on a
project-by-project basis. After discussions with Council for Fiscal Policy,
created earlier in 1989,3 the capital and current budgets are combined and
sent to Congress for approval as part of the General Budget. Once approved,
the Council for Fiscal Policy still reviews and approves monthly
expenditures. In recent years the allocation of budget funds to specific
individual projects, often insufficient initially, coupled to other
constraints, has caused the practice of requesting additional resources
immediately after the budget has been approved. This has produced
uncertainty, though often the additional resources ultimately obtained were
large relative to the originally approved budget. Program budgeting and
coordination with regional and local governments are yet to be implemented
across the public sector, and are an important part of the Bank's economic
dialogue with the Government.
2.10     FNCV's three main sources of funding, earmarked and quasi-earmarked4
resources, external loans and Central Government contributions, will expand,
beginning in 1989, with local government funds resulting from the transfer of
value-added tax revenues under the decentralization scheme. In principle it
is intended that earmarked and quasi-earmarked funds from sharing in the
fuel, beer and airport tax revenues should cover debt-service and current
expenditures. In 1988 they fell somewhat short, providing 292 of the
available resources. External loans and central Government contributions,
which in 1988 represented 33Z and 21? of total funding available,5 provided
for investment programs, with the latter source also covering the debt-
service and current expenditures financing gap. Options for increasing
FNCV's own resources relative to central Government funds, which are
difficult to predict, need to be reviewed. Such a review will be supported
by the project (para. 3.07) and, in order to be effective, will be carried
out after the new cofinancing arrangements and funding levels have been put
into practice and assessed.
2.11     The recent growing share of debt-service funding requirements and
the decreasing contribution of revenues from fixed earmarked tax sources have
placed FNCV in a situation such that, beginning in 1990, it would not have
been able to finance capital and maintenance expenditures unless additional
resources were provided. CONPES, at the time of authorizing FNCV to apply to
the Bank for this project's loan, and for this purpose only, approved the
Central Government's contribution of $60.6 million during the period
1990-1993, earmarking it to assist in meeting the debt-service payment
obligations from past loans.
3/ Comprising the Minister of Finance and Public Credit, two ministers,
the head of DNP and a Secretary to the Presidency.
4/ Funds from specific sources and variable revenue-sharing arrangements.
5/ Excluding funds in the budget of other agencies for which FNCV is
execut    agency.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.       Proiect Ori&in and Objectives
3.01     The project was preliminarily identified in the course of
implementing FNCV's investment and maintenance program, which is partially
financed by Loan 2668-CO. Both the National Rehabilitation and the Fight
Against Poverty Programs emphasize development, improvement and maintenance
of rural roads in an effort consistent with the Government's overall policies
of expanding exports, improving living conditions in rural areas and creating
a favorable environment for private investment, employment growth. and access
to social resources. Through a better, precisely defined and improved
institutional framework, the project will allow FNCV to be more effective in
implementing fundamental economic and social Government policies, including
the decentralized decision-making process in the rural roads sector.
3.02     The main objective of the project is to contribute towards achieving
the country's economic and social goals, by:
(i)   helping classify the road network and define functions and
responsibilities of national, regional and local (municipal)
authorities, and develop, strengthen and organize accordingly
their institutional capacity for managing rural road activities;
(ii)   ensuring, over a realistic time frame, satisfactory implementation
of key policies in the roads s3ctor, including those related to
the administrative decentralization process, road maintenance and
investment programming, coordlination and resource mobilization
between agencies at different administrative levels;
(iii)   consolidating positive institution-building advanceb in road
management initiated by FNCV under the Rural Transport Sector
Project (Loan 2668-CO) and during preparation of this project,
especially in programming and supervision of civil works,
strengthening of its Regional Offices and organizing the
maintenance activities; and
(iv)   contributing to the financing of a balanced four-year investment
and maintenance program.
B.       Project Description
3.03     In the last ten years, the extension of the rural road network
under FNCV is estimated to have grown at an average of close to 4Z
annually, from about 16,300 km in 1979 to about 25,200 km at present. More
recently, however, expansion of the network, far from completed, has
rightly given way to progressive improvement, rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads to adequate engineering and road-user standards which,
in the past, were below requirements. The project is FNCV's 1990-1993
Investment and Maintenance Program and has been designed as a sector
investment operation. Only selective construction of new roads has been
considered under the project, basically targeted to support efforts to
alleviate rural poverty, increase production in agriculture and facilitate



- 13 -
access to social services. An important part of the project, however, is
related to road improvements through construction of small bridges and
drainage structures, which are lacking along existing roads. Improvement,
construction and the substantive part of the periodic maintenance road
works programmed for the network will be carried out under contract with
national and regional civil engineering construction firms. Routine
maintenance, some periodic maintenance, and emergency works to restore
service to traffic in damaged road sections will be carried out through
FNCV's own force account. This will require that some units of FNCV's
equipment fleet be repaired under the project.
3.04     Investments in training, studies and supervision of civil works,
and in institutional strengthening of FNCV itself and the local road
administrations are also included in the project. The project will support
completing the physical and condition inventory of the road network, and
defining and structuring the institutional functions and management
responsibilities in the roads sector. Technical assistance, including
training, to local administrations for road management, especially
maintenance management, will be key to identify needs, assess present and
required capabilities, and draw up action programs (para. 3.27) to
effectively maintain annually agreed sections of the network, and
eventually the whole network. This assistance, supported b; the project
and focused on local governments as they become involved with the project's
civil works, will be provided by the Advanced School for Public
Administration (ESAP), a specialized public sector training agency which
will be under contract with FNCV, and by selected FNCV staff, guided, and
when necessary reinforced, by consultants. The outline of terms of
reference is given in Annex 5. A wide spectrum of existing road management
practices, technical knowledge, tools and procedures are available in FNCV,
including methods for screening and programming of investments, design,
construction, maintenance and supervision standards and specifications.
They can and should be shared and used by all government administration
levels, if the roads sector is to be run efficiently.
3.05     At the same time, FNCV will continue to strengthen its own
investment programming and maintenance management capability, with
particular emphasis on training staff of the regional offices and the
recently approved Maintenance Division (para. 2.05), and making further
progress towards implementing a maintenance management system. FNCV will
prepare training programs with scope, schedule and beneficiaries
satisfactory to the Bank, and which will be jointly reviewed by September
30 every year. The maintenance management system, developed with financing
from Loan 2668-CO, has begun to be operational with the integration of data
from the field inventory of roads, and the programming and monitoring of
road maintf.Aance activities. FNCV's regional offices will constitute the
backbone for assisting the decentralized decision-making process in the
roads sector to secure consistency between local priorities and regional
and national objectives, provide adequate technical and economic input at
local level, and define and coordinate with all agencies involved a
coherent co-financing strategy. To this end, and during project
preparation, the necessary regulation was issued creating a technical
coordinating committee in each region chaired by the head of the respective
FNCV regional office and made up of representatives from the regional
government and other agencies with involvement in rural roads. The
regulation is shown in Annex 2.



- 14 -
3.06     FNCV's regional offices will constitute the foundation upon which
to build the capability of local governments, and eventually of regional
governments, and ensure the smooth transfer of responsibilities under the
decentralization policy. To this effect, they will also discuss and agree
upon action programs with local governments under the guidance of the
Maintenance Division, and will assist and monitor their implementation
(para 3.27). The functions and staff positions of both the Maintenance
Division and the regional offices have been approved, and are acceptable to
the Bank. In addition, the staff consisting of (a) nine engineers in the
Maintenance Division, besides the Division Chief, and (b) at least three
road civil engineers, an economic/planning analyst, and the necessary
administrative and technical support personnel for each of the regional
offices where road works are programmed to be carried out during the first
year of project implementation (1990), were reviewed and found acceptable
by the Bank. For subsequent years, and before considering whether civil
works sub-projects in any region are eligible, the Bank will also need to
review and be satisfied that the number and quality of staff in the
respective FNCV regional office are adequate for the programmed amount of
work. Consultants will also be hired for design and supervision of civil
works.
3.07     Although road user charges are estimated to more than cover the
costs presently associated with maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading
of the whole network of roads in Colombia (para. 1.21), these constitute
predominantly central Government general revenues.6 With time, the sector
has had to rely increasingly on contributions from central government
funds, as earmarked revenues from fixed tax sources lose real value with
time. However, with the transfer of value added tax revenues to local
governments, these will constitute another source able to finance road
works. The project will include a study of FNCV's and the rural roads
financing structure with a view to creating new sources and updating or
changing others, where appropriate, and assessing the form and type of
central government contributions, if required.
3.08     The project amounts to an estimated $157.1 million7 during the
1990-1993 period (Table 5), with maintenance road works accounting for
39.02, construction for 25.5Z, improvements for 26.72, studies and
supervision for 6.7Z, technical assistance and training for 1.22, and
equipment repairs and spare parts for 0.9Z. The project affords continuity
to the prugram presently implemented under the Rural Transport Sector
Project, though this time taking more specifically into account (a) the
identified road physical and management requirements; (b) a strategy to
expand routine maintenance coverage to larger segments of FNCV"ie network;
(c) a strategy to balance the investment effort between road rehabilitation
and construction, following national and regional objectives and
priorities; and (d) projections of sources and uses of funds. Investments
for the first year of the project were defined early in 1989, in time to
carry out the economic confirmation and engineering studies, the latter
financed by the on-going Loan 2668-CO. Each investment in the yearly
6/ Except for revenues from tolls and vehicle registration fees.
7/ Excluding road investments in integrated rural development projects,
which will continue to be funded under other agencies' budgets, and
I  clil d 1   ^ FNCV's si ervisi, .



- 15 -
program and budget requires agreement from local governments (para. 2.04).
Table 6 shows the physical targets of the project.
3.09     Under the project, routine maintenance will be strengthened and
regularly carried out on an average of 6,500 km each year. The annual
routine maintenance program for the first year of the project (1990), shown
in Table 7, is based on that part of the network which was built or is
programmed to be built or upgraded to engineering st&ndards that make
effective maintenance possible. Table 8 shows the part of the periodic
maintenance program, also for the first year of the project, that will be
carried out directly by FNCV's own force account effort. Other maintenance
works, especially surface grading, will also be carried out by FNCV
responding to or anticipating emergencies. An estimate prepared based on
past experience is shown in Table 9. Labor-based activities will be
carried out through arrangements with "lengthmen" (para. 2.07) and local
labur cooperatives (known as micro-enterprises), thus fostering employment
creation and private-sector involvement.
3.10     DNP established that the decentralization must aim at transferring
the responsibility for maintaining 'municipal' roads to local governments.
The project will support the gradual transfer of such responsibilities to
local authorities, beginning with that part of the network found suitable
for applying "lengthmen' or labor cooperative systems, once adequate
institutional capability (technical, financial and managerial) is developed
and in place. This, however, will be a long-term effort. Meanwhile,
FNCV's new Maintenance Division (para. 2.05) will undertake to effectively
manage maintenance on this agency's network, and to transfer know-how and
assist strengthening the maintenance capability of local road
administrations. Periodic maintenance, mainly regravelling of roads, has
been programmed to be carried out on an average 1,100 km each year during
the 1990-1993 period, with priority assigned, again, to technically
finished roads. Roads to be regravelled by contract will be 'packaged' to
form small networks, when technically practical, to attract the interest
and stimulate the formation of regional firms, and to achieve economies of
scale. FNCV's regional offices will perform periodic maintenance under
force account where and when contracting proves not to be economic and
efficient (e.g. scattered roads, remote and isolated areas). The project
also entails improvement of about 1,650 km and construction of about 950 km
of roads, including about 1,100 m of simple short-span bridges and drainage
structures during the 1990-1993 period.
3.11     The project's average annual investment and maintenance
expenditures programmed for 1990-1993 represent a real annual growth of
about 5Z when compared with the 1980-1984 period.  On the other hand, it
will be less than half the level of investment in 1987, a year of
exceptionally high FNCV capital expenditures in direct support of both the
National Rehabilitation and Fight Against Poverty Programs. During the
project's implementation period, however, the aggregate level of investment
and maintenance expenditures remains constant, in line with the strategy to
shift emphasis from construction to less capital-intensive road maintenance
and improvement activities. Consistently with the policy of expanding the
contracted out road works, including maintenance, the project does not
include new road construction and maintenance equipment. It does, however,
include expenditures to rehabilitate existing equipment and build up a
stock of fast-consumption spare parts for FNCV's maintenance fleet. For



- 16 -
routine maintenance, expenditures in real terms during the 1990-1993 period
are programmed to average several times the 1983-1988 levels, which were
clearly inadequate.
3.12     FNCV's expenditures will ve funded (Table 10) through: (a)
earmarked revenues (0.22), from taxes on beer consumption and higher road
property values related to road improvements; (b) quasi-earmarked revenues
(45.3Z), from taxes on vehicular fuel consumption and charges to airport
users; (c) local governments' and prizate entities' appropriations (6.1Z);
(d) Central and regional governments' contributions (26.OZ); and (e)
foreign loan disbursements (22.4%). The projected funding level takes
into account the amount authorized by CONPES for external financing for the
project (para. 1.26), and DNP's forecast of the evolution of relevant tax
revenues and central government contributions. Funding by local
governments has been conservatively estimated based on official projections
of value-added tax revenue transfers, preliminary discussions held with
local authorities, and road priorities identified. This source, however,
is likely to increase its share in total funding and reduce the general
revenue contributions. Funding levels assumed to be provided under
agreements with regional governments and the private sector, mainly
FEDECAFE, were also conservatively estimated following preliminary
discussions on their involvement in the project, and past experience.
C.       Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.13     In line with the country and sector strategies (paras. 1.24 to
1.26), continuing the Bank's assistance to the rural roads sector will
support policies designed primarily to reform and develop the required
institutional framework and begin addressing the issues outlined in the
previous chapter, with one major objective: to effectively maintain and
improve the access of rural communities to social services and markets.
The Bank is and has been the major source of assistance to FNCV and the
rural roads sector. Experience with two previous projects has been good,
and management and staff are motivated and keen to further achieve
institutional advances, under Bank financing, and help transfer technical
and management know-how to regional and local road authorities.
D.       Description of Costs and Financing of Loan Components
3.14     The loan will finance certain components or a sub-set of
activities of the project. The project, because it is based on annually
reviewed physical targets, investment and maintenance expenditures, and
financing levels and sources, provides the necessary flexibility to adapt
to changing developmental circumstances and revised priorities, especially
now that coordination with local governments is mandated under the new
decentralization regulations (para. 2.08). Of the $157.1 million estimated
as the cost of the project, the proposed loan of $55 million represents 352
of the total. This amount, set by CONPES when authorizing FNCV to apply
for a Bank loan (para. 1.44), and the $11.9 million provided by the on-
going Loan 2668-CO are below the project's foreign cost component of $83.9
million.  The remaining portion of the foreign costs, $17.0 million, will
be met by FNCV.



- 17 -
(ii) Periodic maintenance, including resurfacing, of at least 2,100 km
by FNCV's own force account, with a cost including contingencies
of $8.9 million (6Z of the project's cost), and no loan
financing;
(iii) Maintenance grading of at least 500 km of earth-surfaced dry-
weather roads by FNCV's own force account, with a cost including
contingencies of $4.4 million (3Z of the protect's cost), and no
loan financing;
(iv) Periodic maintenance by contract, including resurfacing, of at
least 2,250 km, with a cost including contingencies of $27.2
million (172 of the project's cost), and loan financing of $9.3
million (172 of the loan);
(v) Improvement works by contract of at least 1,300 km of existing
roads and completion of at least 1,100 m of bridges and drainage
structures, with a cost including contingencies of $37.9 million
(242 of the project's cost), and loan financing of $20.8 million
(382 of the loan);
(vi) Improvement works by PNCV's own force account of at least 300 km,
with a cost including contingencies of $4.0 million (32 of the
project's cost), and no loan financing;
(vii) Construction works by contract of at least 800 km of rural roads.
with a cost including contingencies of $38.1 million (24Z of the
project's cost), and loan financing of $18.7 million (342 of the
loan);
(viii) Construction works by FNCV's own force account of at least 150
km, with a cost including contingencies of $4.0 million (32 of
the project's cost), and no loan financing;
(ix) Repair of existing units in FNCV's road maintenance equipment
fleet, and acquisition of a stock of fast consuming spare parts,
with a cost including contingencies of $1.5 million (1? of the
project's cost), and loan financing of $1.0 million (0.5Z of the
loan);
(x) Engineering designs and services for supervision of civil
engineering works, with a cost including contingencies of $10.6
million (72 of the project's cost), and loan financing for $4.8
million (8.52 of the loan);
(xi) Training, technical assistance, including the review of road-
funding strategies, and other services, with a cost including
contingencies of $1.8 million (12 of the project's cost), and
loan financing of $0.9 million (1.52 of the loan).
3.16     The table on the following page summarizes the estimated costs of
the project's components8 and the relation with the parts to which loan
financing will be applied.  Details are given in Table 5.
8/    -ii ive of  18s i d duties estV kted to amount to $13 million



- 18 -
Foreign    Local      Total         Bank
Cost       Cost       Cost     Loan       2
-($--------- ( S million) ------____
Maintenance Works          27.7        27.3       55.0     8.4    15.3
Improvement Works          17.8        17.9       35.7    19.5    35.4
Construction Works         22.0        14.7       36.7    15.8    28.7
Engineering Designs &
Civil V;rks Supervision   4.2          5.1        9.3     4.2      7.6
Training, Technical
Assistance & Other
Services                   0.8         0.9       1.7      0.8      1.5
Equipment Repairs &
Spare Parts                1.0         0.4       1.4      1.0     1.8
Total Base Cost (mid-
1989 prices)              73.5        66.3     139.8    49.'    90.3
Physical Contin;encies      5.0         3.9        8.9     2.9      5.3
Price Contingencies         5.4         3.0        8.4     2.4      4.4
TOTAL COST                 83.9        73.2     157.1    55.0   100.0
3.17     The base costs are estimated at mid-1989 prices (June 30, 1989).
Cost estimates for civil works, including periodic maintenance, take into
account FNCV's technical specifications for different roads, road
activities and topographic conditions, and are based on a review of
recently contracted unit prices in areas characterized for homogeneous
quality and availability of road materials. The cost estimated for
consulting services is based on market rates for local and foreign
consultants. Past experience indicates that, given the simple nature of
the civil engineeriwng road works involved in the project, the contracts
for design 'nd supervision attract competition from only local consulting
firms. Foxeign consultants have been estimated to assist in carrying out
other studies and in providing technical assistance and training.
Physical contingencies have been considered varying relative to the base
cost of each type of civil engineering work involved; 102 for
construction, 52 for improvements and 4Z for periodic maintenance. These,
in turn, bear on cost estimates for supervision of civil works. The
provisions for price escalation assume constant purchasing parity of the
Colombian currsncy over the project's life period and a projected foreign
price index variation of 2.72 p.a. from mid-1989 to mid-1990, 3.5% p.a.
from mid-1990 to mid-1992, and 3.7Z p.a. from mid-1992 onwards. These
Government projections do not differ significantly from those projected by
the Bank (3Z p.a. for 1987-1990, 4Z p.a. for 1990-2000).
3.18     (Jnder the broad-ranging decentralization regulations, PNCV is
required to secure local cofinancing for capital and maintenance
expenditures on rural roads, under cost-sharing conditions established by
its Board of Directors. The cost-sharing formulae take into account the
expected level and the average cost of the different types of road
investments. Annex 3 shows the corresponding FNCV directive. Experience
will indicate if the cost-sharing formulae need to be adjusted.
E.       Environmental Considerations and Economic Justification
3.19     Long-standing regulations of the Colombian Government require
that an ecological-environmental study be carried out prior to any action



- 19 -
likely to cause deterioration of natural resources or the environment.
Rather than carrying out such studies, the scope of which, as defined by
the specialized Government agency (INDERENA), often would have had high
costs, FNCV has normally chosen in the past to design construction of
roads avoiding culturally and environmentally sensitive areas. Such
considerations, however, were not linked to the economic evaluation and
selection procedures agreed with the Bank under the previous projects, and
have not been systematically applied. In the co- se of project
preparation, procedures have been developed to integrate environmental and
economic considerations, from the initial screening stage through to the
final selection and inclusion in the project, in line with the
decentralization policies and objectives. Details are given in Annex 4.
Moreover, INDERENA will be involved when local priorities are reviewed at
the stage of regional cocrdination (para. 3.20), in areas sensitive to the
environment. During appraisal, agreement was reached with FNCV on the
evaluation procedures and criteria to be followed, and on the evidence
required to be submitted to the Bank, for review of results obtained and
consideration of candidate construction and improvement sub-projects for
loan financing.
3.20     A basic economic-environmental evaluation will be made for each
construction and improvement component, whether individual road or group
of roads in a specific area network, to be selected for inclusion in the
project's detailed annual budgets and, in the case of improvement works,
for possible loan financing, beginning in 1990 and every year thereon.
This evaluation will confirm the corresponding rel;.tive priority, after
having cleared the local screening and subsequent regional coordination
stages of the sub-project selection procedures. As a first step, the
local governments screen community and other requests for road works,
obtain pertinent basic economic, social and environmental data, and
determine relative local priorities. As a second step, the screening
results are reviewed for consistency and coordination by all the
interested parties: the respective local and regional administration
levels, FNCV's regional office, and other institutions and agencies with
interests in the road sector such as Committees of Coffee Growers and the
Integrated Rural Development Fund. As a third step, the economic-
environmental studies are made of each road investment that survives this
screening to confirm or not their priority and inclusion in the project.
The contracting of the engineering studies then follow.
3.21     For periodic maintenance components, a technical evaluation of
the road conditions based on updated surveys will be required. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with FNCV that investments for
improvement and constcuction sub-projects will be selected only if they
yield economic rates of return (ERR) higher than 122, and after priority
allocation of funds to periodic and routine maintenance activities on
roads built with sound technical criteria to all-weather traffic service
standards.
3.22     The project will directly benefit the rural population of
Colombia, not only by improving access to social and market services,
integrating remote and isolated areas, and following a balanced
investment-maintenance strategy, but mostly by guiding and facilitating
the decentralization process in the roads sector, with FNCV, the only
agency in the country with technical expertise on rural roads, and the



- 20 -
local governments, jointly becoming more responsive to road needs and
priorities of the rural population of each municipality. Producer and
consumer surplus benefits derived from lower economic transport costs will
be quantified (mainly higher farm-gate prices for production, lower farm-
gate costs for agricultural inputs, productivity increases,
diversification of production, increases in area under cultivation,
reduction of spoilage due to improved all-weather transit road conditions,
and lower passenger transport costs). In certain areas where rural
transport services are not competitive, the evaluation criteria allow for
reductions in transport
costs which would not be fully passed along to farmers and other
producers.
F.       Assessment of Issues and Risks
3.23     This will be the third operation in the roads sector with FNCV as
borrower and executing agency. It has been prepared on the basis of
experience gained, particularly during implementation of the Rural
Transport Sector Project, and involves simple proven civil engineering
techniques. The project has been reviewed in depth and found acceptable.
in view of the identified investment requirements, FNCV's managing
capability, and the competitive capacity of the construction industry.
The implementation schedules for the project are in line with those
already experienced in recent periods and under normal circumstances.9
3.24     There are two main issues connected to and dealt with under the
projecti the level of funding, particularly from two sources (local and
central governments), and the institutional arrangements for effective
local participation in road planning and management.
3.25     As indicated (para 3.18), the cost-sharing formulae between FNCV
and local governments for different road works have been established.
However. it will be necessary to review the implementation results, and,
if warranted, revise the formulae as these were defined, for practical
reasons, with limited consultation with local authorities. In addition to
assessing the ability of local governments to cofinance road works, the
Central Government will be in a position to study and reform the rural
roads financing structure, and define its own funding contribution. The
resulting uncertainty is minimized by the agreement reached during
negotiations that (a) the project and the adequacy of its funding
arrangements will be monitored and reviewed jointly with the Bank, by not
later than March 31 and September 30 of each year, beginning not later
than March 31, 1990; and (b) based on the conclusions of the joint review,
a program of actions to improve project implementation, acceptable to the
Bank, will be drawn up and carried out. Furthermore, agreement was also
reached with the Government that, through DNP, it will review the findings
and recommendations of the study that FNCV will carry out by August 31,
1990 (para.3.07 and Annex 6) on strategies to mobilize revenues for rural
roads, especially for maintenance, and that it will formulate, and discuss
with the Bank, a program of actions, acceptable to the Bank, including the
9/ Disregarding the effect of exceptional efforts, funded in 1987, to
improve the road access to depressed areas through the Government's
National Rehabilitation and Fight Against Poverty Programs.



- 21 -
revision of funding sources for rural roads, by not later than December
31, 1990.
3.26     A second issue relates to the readiness of local governments to
(a) correctly use methods and procedures developed to locally identify and
screen possible road investments, in the context of the administrative
decentralization process, and (b) develop their capa!)ility to gradually
assume maintenance responsibilities (para. 3.10). Though the methods and
procedures are simple, the disposition of local governments to agree and
correctly use them remains to be assessed in practice. Additionally, the
institutional capacity of local and regional road authorities will have to
be developed and strengthened before the full-fledged transfer of road
maintenance responsibilities can be achieved. Technical assistance and
training for local road administrations (paras. 3.02 and 3.04), and FNCV's
cofinancing available to performing local governments (para. 3.27) will
reduce this element of uncertainty.
3.27     During negotiations, it was be agreed that: (a) no investment
sub-project will be included each year in the project's budget, beginning
in 1990, unless the methods and procedures followed for evaluating its
priority and inclusion in the project and budget are consistent with those
developed by FNCV and included in the project: (b) through MOPT, the
Government will complete the condition inventory of all roads, except
national highways, by not later than July 31, 1990, will have a
functional-jurisdictional road classification proposal by not later than
October 31, 1990, and will lay down the corresponding regulation by not
later than January 31, 1991; and (c) with local administrations involved
in the project, FNCV will draw up action programs, beginning by not later
than September 30, 1990, to develop capacity and assume, within a
reasonable time frame, full responsibility for maintenance management of
the respective networks; such action programs to be reviewed and monitored
jointly twice a year by FNCV and the Bank, and when so required with the
local administrations, by not later than March 31 and September 30 of each
year, beginning not later than September 30, 1990.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A.       Sub-project Selection
4.01     The loan will finance component sub-projects of the project,
following criteria for selection already indicated (paras. 3.19 to 3.21).
In accordance with the program approach adopted for both this project and
the Rural Transport Sector Project, some civil works and supervision
contracts, selected and financed initially under the latter, may require
completion under this project, once Loan 2668-CO funds are depleted.
Furthermore, the assistance to local administrations that will be provided
by FNCV and consultants will need to start as early as possible, and
preferably before 1990, in order to help implement the new investment
screening, programing and co-financing procedures (para. 3.18).
Additionally, economic, environmental and engineering studies for a large
number of improvement and constructlon civil engineering sub-projects, and
engineering studies for periodic maintenance sub-projects have been and



- 22 -
are being carried out under Loan 2668-CO. These have been revised for
consistency with new procedures, and will constitute the bulk of the road
works financed by the project during the first year (1990), and the basis
for appraisal. The list is shown in Table 11. Other sub-projects will be
added in later years, following the findings of the twice-yearly joint
reviews of the project (para. 3.25).
4.02     The Bank will review and approve every sub-project to be eligible
for loan financing. In order to be considered for financing under the
proposed loan, civil works sub-projects and other project components will
have to be technically and environmentally sound and economically
justified. Besides meeting the requirements for inclusion in the project
(paras. 3.19 to 3.21, 3.25 to 3.27), during negotiations it was agreed
that no road improvement, construction or periodic maintenance sub-project
will be selected for loan financing unless the corresponding, sufficiently
detailed engineering studies have been completed prior to actual tendering
of the works. With the resulting cost estimates, and also before
tendering, ?NCV will update the economic priority justification of
improvement and construction sub-projects, and propose revisions, if
warranted. Furthermore, it was agreed during appraisal of the project,
and confirmed during negotiations, that, for civil works sub-projects in
any particular region and year, beginning in 1991 and throughout the
project's implementation period, to be considered eligible for loan
financing, the Bank will require to be satisfied with the implementation
of the routine and periodic maintenance programs in the preceding year.
B.       Implementation and Procurement
4.03     Implementation of the project will be the responsibility of FNCV,
except for (a) the classification of the characteristics and condition of
all roads in Colombia which are not national highways, and the subsequent
regulation of the institutional scope and functions of regional and local
governments to manage them; and (b) the preparation and implementation of
a program revising the road funding structure and sources. Responsibility
will lie with the Government, with the former implemented through MOPT and
the latter implemented through DNP according to agreed schedules (paras.
3.25 and 3.27). Furthermore, and notwithstanding the primary role that
FNCV will play in transferring know-how and providing technical assistance
to local authorities for their gradual assumption of road management
functions (paras. 3.26 and 3.27), it will necessarily share the
implementation responsibility with the entities that choose to
participate. The project, its financing and its implementation will be
monitored twice a year jointly with the Bank (paras. 3.25 and 3.27), with
particular attention given to the compliance wil. tnnual targets (Tables 6
to 9), financing arrangements and funding available, and actual
disbursement performance.
4.04     The accessibility --for security reasons-- of areas where project
or sub-project components are proposed will also be considered during the
twice-yearly reviews; loan financing will be directed to project or sub-
project components in areas judged by the Government sufficiently
accessible to allow implementation and Bank supervision (a changing
situation during implementation will warrant shifts in programmed loan-
financed expenditures).



- 23 -
4.05     Implementation, hindered int the past by largely inflexible
allocations of funds *o 'ndividual sub-projects in the budget (para.
2.09), will improve with funds allocated to specific activities or sub-
programs (e.g. bridge construction, periodic maintenance, routine
maintenance, road improvement, road construction), or to specific regions
(individual or grouped departments, commissariats and intendencies),
rather than to individual sub-projects. The list of individual component
sub-projects for which the funds will be jointly allocated, will continue
to be detailed in the budget for planning and performance evaluation
reasons.  During negotiations, agreement was reached that, beginning in
1990. the Government will approve, and FNCV will submit its yearly budget,
based on funding requirements of and allocations to specific activity or
regional sub-programs, but continuing to identify the component sub-
projects to the extent possible.
4.06     The schedule of main events for implementing the project,
including key Bank processing steps, is shown in Annex 7. Appraisal was
carried out in April 1989, and presentation to the Bank's Board of
Directors will be in November 1989. Loan effectiveness is expected by
January 1990. The project is expected to be completed in 1994, allowing
for late 1993 contracting of the last civil works sub-projects.
4.07     Procurement arrangements for components of the project to which
loan financing will be applied are shown below.  The figures in brackets
correspond to the estimated loan financing.
Procurement Procedures
LCB         OTHER          TOTAL
----------$ million_-----------
-Maintenance Works          11.5          4.0            15.5
(6.9)        (2.4)           (9.3)
-Improvement Works          34.8          ---            34.8
(20.8)        (---)          (20.8)
-Construction Works         30.3          ---            30.3
(18.2)        (---)          (18.2)
-Engineering Designs &       ---         10.6            10.6
Civil Works Supervision   (---)         (4.8)           (4.8)
-Training, Technical         ---          1.8             1.8
Assistance & Other         (---)        (0.9)           (0.9)
Services
-Equipment Repairs &
Spare Parts                0.4          1.0             1.4
(0.3)        (0.7)           (1.0)
Total             77.0          17.4           94.4
(46.2)        (8.8)          (55.0)
4.08     Contracts for periodic maintenance and improvement road works,
when geographically and technically practical, will combine roads in



- 24 -
different areas so as to promote competitiveness in the construction
industry, and permit efficient scaling and scheduling of the work. Civil
engineering works contracts estimated to individually cost less than the
equivalent of $1.0 million but more than $53,000 equivalent, and
individual contracts for goods estimated to cost more than $25,000 but
less than $100,000 equivalent, will be awarded, following the Bank's
guidelines for procurement, through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures. Although not expected to occur, in the event of individual
civil engineering works contracts estimated to cost more than the
e(uivalent of $1.0 million, and individual contracts for goods estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, procurement will follow the
Bank's guidelines for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts
for civil engineering works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000
equivalent, and contracts for goods estimated to individually cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less, may be awarded through local shopping, that
is, following a procurement method based on comparing price quotations
from at least three bidders. With prior agreement of the Bank,
proprietary items as part of individual supply contracts or as component
of individual equipment repair contracts may be awarded through direct
contracting.
4.09     Prequalification of civil engineering contractors will be based
on FNCV's permanent register, and foreign contractors will be permitted to
register individually or in joint venture with local firms. Prior Bank
review of bidding documents, advertisements, evaluation of bids, and award
recommendations will not be required for civil engineering works and goods
contracts. Sample bidding documents, however, were reviewed and agreed
upon during negotiations, and will be normally used for procurement of
civ!l works. After completion of each contracting process, FNCV will send
to the Bank two copies of the bidding documents, the evaluation of bids,
the bid award, and the legalized contract. The Bank will have the right
to reject the contract if the sub-project has not been previously declared
eligible for financing, or if the procurement procedures followed are not
those discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
4.10     Services from consultants will be procured according to the
relevant Bank guidelines. Individual consultants may be hired through
direct contracting arrangements when their services are estimated to cost
$20,000 equivalent or less. Terms of reference, letters of invitation and
lists of qualified candidate firms or individual consultants will be
submitted for the Bank's prior review and acceptance. Subsequently, the
evaluation of proposals and the recommendation for selection of a
consultant, as well as the related d:aft contract, will also be submitted
for prior review and acceptance by the Bank. For engineering design
studies and supervision of civil engineering works, standard terms of
reference and contract formats will need to be reviewed and accepted by
the Bank, prior to selecting and contracting the services of consultants.
These procurement arrangements were agreed upon during negotiations.
4.11     Civil engineering works contracts of the project not financed
under the loan will be implemented through competitive procurement
procedures. Exceptions to this procedure will be considered only under
special circumstances, such as when works are small and scattered and in
remote locations, and when competitive bidding procedures have failed to



- 25 -
interest bidders or result in reasonable prices. Direct contracting will
then be considered, unless force account implementation could be justified
as a more economic procedure, and be properly monitored. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the value amount and justification of
construction, improvement and periodic maintenance road works programmed
to be carried out and carried out through direct contracts and force
account will be reviewed and monitored jointly twice a year by FNCV and
the Bank by not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year,
beginning not later than March 31, 1990.
C.       Disbursements, Accounting and Auditing
4.12     Disbursements will be made against the following categories of
eligible expenditures: (a) 60? of total expenditures under contracts for
civil engineering road works; (b) 45% of total expenditures under
consulting services contracts for engineering studies and supervision of
civil works; (c) 1002 of foreign expenditures or 502 of local expenditures
for technical assistance and training services; and (d) 100X of foreign
expenditures or 802 of local expenditures for spare parts for FNCV's
maintenance equipment fleet.
4.13     The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 12.
The Government's aim is to substantially complete the project's
commitments by December 1993, and the implementation schedule has been
developed on this basis. As experience shows that some slippage is likely
to occur, the disbursement profile adopted corresponds to the average of
Bank-financed transport projects in Colombia, which i.- six and a half
years. Consistent with this, the estimated loan closing date is December
31, 1995.
4.14     To speed up reimbursement to FNCV for approved expenditures to be
financed by the loan, a Special Account will be opened in the Banco de la
Republica with an initial deposit of $5.0 million made from the loan
account, a figure representing average loan-financed expenditures during
four months, including advance payments to contractors. As implementation
of the project will require disbursements against a large number of small
contracts, applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be
submitted on the basis of periodic statements of expenditures (SOE) for
all contracts valued at the equivalent of $1 million or less. This
procedure has proven satisfactory under the previous two projects. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms and conditions for
operation of the Special Account.
4.15     In the course of preparing the project and supervising the on-
going Rural Transport Sector Project, the accounting and internal control
systems were reviewed and found satisfactory. Moreover, FNCV staff from
its Financing and Accounting Division have benefitted from special
training offered and conducted by the Bank's Loan and Trust Funds
Department. In addition, FNCV's operations and accounts have regularly
been audited by Colombia's Comptroller General's Office and found in good
order. Recommendations by the auditors for improvement have focused on
accounting and monitoring of force account expenditures by FNCV's regional
offices. Corrective actions are being implemented as part of the
strengthened and decentralized new roles of the regional offices. During



- 26 -
negotiations, it was agreed that FNCV will have its records and accounts,
the Special Account, the Statements of Expenditures and all other project-
related accounts audited each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles applied by independent auditors, acceptable to the
Bank, and that annual audit reports will be prepared and forwarded to the
Bank not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year,
beginning in 1990.
D.       Monitoring
4.16     During negotiations, agreement was reached that FNCV --and, when
appropriate, DNP and MOPT-- and the Bank will jointly and from time to
time review progress in implementing and regularly updating the project.
Prior to each review, FNCV will orepare summary information on progress in
achieving the project's objectives and components, and for each sub-
project included in the project will have available for consultation all
relevant supporting documentation. For sub-projects included in each
recurrent detailed period of the project but not yet under implementation,
information will be provided on the selection process followed, the
results of the environmental-economic studies, the bidding, the evaluation
and the award procedures, the bill of quantities and cost estimates
resulting from the engineering studies, the cost- sharing arrangements
made, and the implementation schedule. For sub-projects and targets in
the later years of the project information on the status of identification
and selection will be provided. For sub-projects under implementation,
information on actual and programmed physical and disbursement progress
against the approved implementation schedule will also be included. Of
particular importance will be the information on actual performance,
programmed scope, productivity and costs of the routine and periodic
maintenance programs and sub-projects.
4.17     Furthermore, in order to monitor progress in preparing, updating
and implementing the project and other related action programs (paras.
3.25, 3.27 and 4.11), agreement was reached during negotiations that FNCV
will provide information on the actual and programmed availability and
execution of budgetary funds. and on the composition and status of
programs, sub-programs and portfolio of eub-projects, by region and type
of road activity, and any other reports and data that the Bank may
reasonably request.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.       Agreements Confirmed
5.01     The following agreements were confirmed during negotiations:
(i) FNCV will prepare training programs with scope, schedule and
beneficiaries satisfactory to the Bank, and which will be jointly
reviewed by September 30 every year (para. 3.05);
(ii) prior to considering eligibility of civil works sub-projects in



- 27 -
any region (department, commissariat and intendency), the Bank to
review and be satisfied with the number and quality of FNCV staff
assigned to the respective regional office (para. 3.06);
(iii)  the project, its implementation and funding to be monitored and
reviewed jointly by FNCV and the Bank, by not later than March 31
and September 30 of each year, beginning not later than March 31,
1990; based on the conclusions of the joint review, a program of
actions to improve implementation, acceptable to the Bank, to be
drawn up and executed (paras. 3.25, 4.03, 4.11 and 4.16);
(lv) technical, economic and environmental evaluation methods and
procedures to be followed for selection and inclusion in the
project of construction, improvement and maintenance sub-projects
to be consistent, beginning in 1990, with those developed by
FNCV; such methods and procedures to be revised, if warranted,
during the joint, twice-yearly reviews by FNCV and the Bank,
beginning in 1990 (pare. 3.27);
(v) evidence required to be submitted to the Bank for review and
consideration of candidate sub-projects for loan financing
(paras. 3.19, 4.16 and 4.17);
(vi)  investments for candidate construction and improvement sAb-
projects to be selected for inclusion in the project only if they
yield ERRs higher than 122, and after priority allocation of
funds to periodic and routine maintenance activities on roads
built to all-weather traffic service standards (para. 3.21);
(vii)  the Government, through DNP, to review the findings and
recommendations of the study, to be carried out by FNCV by not
later than August 31, 1990 (para. 3.25), on strategies to
mobilize revenues for rural roads, especially for maintenance,
and to formulate and discuss with the Bank a program of actions,
acceptable to the Bark, including the revision of funding sources
for rural roads, by not later than December 31, 1990 (para.
3.25):
(viii)  the Government, through MOPT, to complete the condition inventory
of all roads, except national highways, by not later than July
31, 1990, send to the Bank a functional-jurisdictional road
classification proposal by not later than October 31, 1990, and
put into effect or submit to Congress the corresponding
regulation by not later than January 31, 1991 (para. 3.27);
(ix)  together with local administrations involved in the project, FNCV
to draw up, beginning not later than September 30, 1990, action
programs to develop their capacity to assume, within a reasonable
time, full responsibility far managing maintenance of their
respective networks; such action programs to be reviewed and
monitored as part of the joint, twice yearly reviews by FNCV and
the Bank, and when so required by the Bank with the local
administrations, beginning not later than September 30, 1990
(para. 3.27);



- 28 -
(x)  no construction, improvement or periolic maintenance sub-project
to be selected for loan financing unless the corresponding,
sufficiently detailed engineering studies have been completed
prior to actual tendering of the works (para. 4.02);
(xi) prior to considering eligibility of civil works sub-projects in
any region (department, commissariat and intendency) for 1991 and
every year thereafter, the Bank to review and be satisfied with
the implementation performance of the respective routine and
periodic maintenance programs during each preceding year (para.
4.02);
(xii) the accessibility of areas where project or sub-project
components are proposed will be considered during the twice-
yearly reviews, with loan financing directed to eligible
expenditures in areas judged sufficiently accessible for project
or sub-project implementation and supervision (para. 4.04);
(xiii) beginning in 1990, FNCV to prepare and submit its yearly budget,
and the Government, through DNP, to approve the format, based on
funding requirements of activity or regional sub-programs, but
continuing to identify the component sub-projects to the extent
possible (para. 4.05);
(xiv) procedures, arrangements and related matters for procurement of
civil works and professional services (paras. 4.07 to 4.11);
(xv) contracts for periodic maintenance and improvement of roads, when
geographically and technically practical, will combine roads in
different areas so as to promote competitiveness in the
construction industry, and permit efficient scaling and
scheduling of the work (para. 4.08);
(xvi) value and justification of road works proposed for direct
contracting and force account procedures to be reviewed and
monitored in the joint, twice-yearly reviews by FNCV and the
Bank, beginning on March 31, 1990 (para. 4.11);
(xvii) terms and conditions for operating the Special Account (para.
4.14); and
(xviii)  independent auditors to audit FNCV's accounts, the Special
Account and all other project-related accounts, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles, and to prepare and forward
to the Bank annual audit reports not later than four months after
the end of each fiscal year, beginning in 1990 (para. 4.15).
B.       Recommendation
5.02     Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of $55.0 million. The terms will be 17 years including a five-
year grace period.



COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Domestic Transport Demand (1980-1985)
F R E I G B T (million)
YEAR           ROAD                  RAIL                RIVER                 TOTAL
TONS    TON-KM    TONS       TON-KM      TONS    TON-KM       TONS      TON-KM
1980       26.7    18,025      1.9          882       2.0     1,287       30.6     20,194
1981       27.4    20,816      1.4          641       1.9     1,140       30.7     22,597
1982       28.1    22,321      1.1          562       2.0     1,287       31.2     24,170
1983       28.8    21,485      1.2          665       2.0     1,140       32.0     23,290
1984       29.5    22,130      1.3          745       1.9     1,287       32.7     24,162
1985       30.0    22,793      1.3          774       2.1     1,382       33.4     24,949
2 of Total
(1985)     89.8       91.4     3.9         3.14      6.3        5.5     100.0       100.0
P A S S E N G E R S (million)
YEAR          ROAD                     RAIL                RIVER                TOTAL
PASS    PASS-KM        PASS    PASS-KM      PASS   PASS-KM        PASS  PASS-KM
1980      379.4   19,958          2.2       315         0.2       57         381.8  20,330
1981      369.1   19,414          1.7       230         0.2       69         371.0  19,713
198%      386.7   20,343          1.2       158         0.3       79         388.2  20,580
1983      390.3   20,530          1.3       175         0.3       82         391.9  20,787
1984      390.0   20,515          1.4       193         0.3       87         391.7  20,795
1985      397.3   20,900          2.4       230         0.4      120         400.1  21,250
SOURCE:  FNCV, based on estimates by MOPC and FNC.
September 1988



- 30 -
TABLE 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Fleet of Road Vehicles by Type of Service (1985)
T Y P E     O F    S E R V I C E
JURISDICTION        TOTAL        PRIVATE         PUBLIC        OFFICIAL
--------------------(000)-
ANTIOQUIA            176.2          137.7          35.3           3.1
ATLANTICO             60.4            43.3         15.5           1.6
BOLIVAR               26.4           18.8           6.4           1.2
BOYACA                33.3           20.8          12.0            .6
CALDAS                31.1           23.4           6.9            .8
CAQUETA                3.0            1.9            .8            .3
CAUCA                 14.7           10.7           3.3            .7
CESAR                 11.3            8.5           2.5            .3
CHOCO                   .4              .1           .2            .1
CORDOBA               18.9           10.2           8.2            .3
CUNDINAMARCA         170.9          152.2          16.9           1.9
D.E.BOGOTA           258.2          199.0          46.4          12.8
GUAJIRA                6.8            4.2           2.4            .2
HUILA                 15.1           10.6           3.8            .6
MAGDALENA             17.2            13.2          3.5            .6
META                  17.7            12.8          4.5            .4
NARINO                17.5           10.6           6.6            .3
NORTE DE SANTANDER   19.6            10.5           8.3            .8
PUTUMAYO               1.6            1.0            .6            .1
QUINDIO               18.7           13.7           4.6            .4
RISARALDA             21.7           16.1           5.0            .6
SAN ANDRES             2.6            1.3           1.2            --
SANTANDER             56.6           42.7          12.7           1.2
SUCRE                  9.3            5.9           3.2            .2
TERRITORIOS NACIONALESt
-AMAZONAS               .1             --            --            --
-ARAUCA                 .3             --            .2            --
-CASANARE               .8              .6           .1            --
-GUAVIARE               --             --            __            --
-VICHADA                --             --            --            --
TOLIMA                31.1           21.3           9.3            .6
VALLE                154.5          112.8          34.2           7.5
TOTAL             1,196.0           903.9         254.6          37.2
SOURCE: INTRA
September 1988



- 31 -
TABLE 3
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
FNCV'S Road Netvork by Resional Jurisdiction
JURISDICTION                                LENGTH (K)
ANTIOQUIA                                      2.594
ATLANTICO                                        251
BOLIVAR                                         852
BOYACA                                        2.485
CALDAS                                          641
CAQUETA                                          737
CAUCA                                           862
CESAR                                           453
CHOCO                                           159
CORDOBA                                         421
CUNDINAMARCA                                  1.725
GUAJIRA                                         425
HUILA                                         1.878
HAGDALEN&                                        653
META                                           1.748
NARINO                                        1.312
NORTE DE SANTANDER                              789
PUTUMAYO                                        272
QUINDIO                                         433
RISARALDA                                       427
SANTANDER                                     1.251
SUCRE                                           795
TERRITORIOS RACIONALES                          868
-AMAZONAS
-ARAUCA
-CASANARE
-GUAINIA
-GUAVIAR1
-VAUPES
-VICHADA
TOLIMA                                        1.218
VALLE                                         1.001
t.OTAL                                       24.250
SOURCE: FNCV
October 1988



- 32 -
TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Past and Ongoing Operations in Transport
Approved
Amount
Sub Sector        Loan;Credit      Year      tmillion        Name
Highways                 43-CO     1951           16.5        First Highway
84-CO     1953           14.3       Second Highway
144-CO     1956           16.5       Third Highway
05-CO/2C5-CO     1961          39.00        Fourth Highway
550-CO     1968          17.20       Fifth Highway
680-CO     1970           32.0       Sixth Highway
1471-CO     1977          90.00       Seventh Highway
2121-CO     1982         152.30       Highway Sector
2829-CO     1987         180.30       Second Sector
Sub-Total                                       557.85
Rural Roads            1966-CO     1981          33.50        Rural Roads
Rural Transport        2668-CO     1986          62.00        Rural Transport
Railways                 68-CO     1952          25.00        First Railway
119-CO     1955          15.90       Second Railway
267-CO     1960           5.40       Third Railway
343-CO     1963          30.00       Fourth Railway
551-CO     1968          18.30       Fifth Railway
926-CO     1973          25.00       Sixth Railway
2090-CO     1981          77.00       Seventh Railway
Sub-Total                                       196.60
Aviation                                                      Domestic
1624-CO     1978          61.00       Aviation
Pipelines           IFC-R76-66     1976                      Loans to
13.00       PROMIGAS S.A.
Equity in
2.00       PROMIGAS S.A.
Sub-Total                                        15.00
Ports                                                        Ports
2635-CO     1985          42.80       Rehabilitation
TOTAL                  968.25
SOURCE: IBRD Files



- 33 -
TABLE 5
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Project Costs
1990      1991        1992       1993      TOTAL
…_________------…($ million)-----------------
Construction                    15.3       13.7        7.2       3.9      40.1
Improvement                      9.0        6.8       11.9      14.2      41.9
Periodic Maintenance            15.4        4.7        7.5       8.5      36.1
Routine Maintenance              4.0        4.8        5.6       6.4      20.8
Emergency Maintenance            1.8        1.3        0.8       0.5       4.4
Equipment Repairs and
Spare Parts                    0.6        0.6        0.2       0.0       1.4
Designs and Supervision          3.1        2.6        2.5       2.4      10.6
Technical Assistance
and Training                   0.7        0.5       0.4        0.2       1.8
TOTAL                       49.9       35.0      36.1       36.1     157.1
SOURCEs  FNCV
October 1989



- 34 -
TABLE 6
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Physical Targets of the Proiect
1990    1991    1992    1993   TOTAL
Construction:
Roads (km)                          362     306      170     101     939
Canals (km)                           2      -        -       -        2
Improvement:
Roads (km)                          375     283      454     534   1,646
Bridges and Culverts (m)             72     172      403     473   1,120
Periodic Maintenance (km)           1.673     750      942   1,013   4,378
Routine Maintenance (km)            5,000   6,001   7,001   8,000  26,002
Emergency Maintenance (km)            210     150       95      66     521
SOURCEt FNCV
April 1989



COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Annual (1990) Routine Maintenance Progrm
Culvert                                                                    Bridge
Side     Clearing       Side                                              Land     Waterway  Retaining
Vegetation  Drainage   and Scour    Drainage                             Surface         Slide     and Scour   Wells
Clearing    Clearing    Control      Shnping         Patching           Grading       Removal      Control    Repairs
Region          (Kc)        (Km)      (units)        (ml)        (,2)      (p8)         (Km)         (in)        (units)    (me)
Antioquia       100.2         e6         1506         les8        12730     2668         241.0         8425         32         2a9
Atlintico        28.6          22          70          2t9         2665       88         65.8          1021          5          27
Bolivar          68.6          74         89          1s5         11040    2208          208.9        8992          11         196
soya"            65.8          60         810          605         7700     1540         167.3        8801           7         105
Caidas           67.1          67        1069         1802         885      1677         168.0        686a          12        169
Caquet           97.1          s6         862         1402        12875     2476         221.8        6862          15         128
Cauca           102.8          Be        1124         1788        18050     2610        248.2         7987          16        219
C6sr             8B.0         S1           68          862        8740      746          77.7         18a8          1          84
C6rdoba          99.4          77         403         1520       11400     2260         211.8         6651         10         181
Cundin marce    118.6          99        856         1984        1s86o     2786         277.1         092          14         265
Choc6            68.1          48        164          946         7160     1480         182.2         4109         20         111  |
u aIjra          22.2          21         68          258         2510      602          58.0         1068          3          31      0
Hulls            48.4          as 86   8              768        6526      1065         108.4         3620         10         108
Magdplona       76.7          B6          62         1817         6177     1858         165.8         6282         21         182



S.'
Culvert                                                                    Bridge
Side    Clearing        Side                                             Land     Waterway   Rtaining 
Vegeation   Drainage  and Scour    Drainago                             Surface        Slide    and Scour   WSIs
Clearing    Clearing   Control       Shaping         Patching          Grading       Removal    Control   Ropairs
RelIon          (Kl)        (VA)      (unite)       (.8)        (.2)      (.2)         (Kl)          (.8)       (units)    (me)
Met             71.9          04    8 86              964         9170    1884          800.1        3410          8          74
NariRo           58.4         64         486          706         6726    184t          188.6        2878          5          76
N. de Santander 42.9          87          15          748         5245    1049          104.9        3627          B         108
PO_mYO          47.5          48          89          627         6060    1210          106.8        2179          7          46
Quindfo         68.6          el    8     69         1010    B     l60     1680        166..4        4609         10         127
Riearalde       26.6          28         841           68         8020     604          61.6         1592          7          44
Santander       69.6          62         239          948         7800    1520         188.7         394J          7         108
Suare            6.4           6          16           69          726      146         16.0          265          1           7
Territorlog
Tel r..         64.9          67         584         1048         6825    1505         157.6         4888          8         189
Vail*           47.8          41         240          820         6890    1078          76.8         8910          6         114
TOTAL       1468.9        1290        9990        28406       178027   86228        2499.6       108077        238        2847
Source: FNCV
Septembr 1989



COLOMBIA
SECOtND RUtAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Annual (1090) Periodic Maintenance Program by FNCV u Own Force Account
Lined                 Bridge                 Side
Regravelling                        Side        Side    Retaining   Repair and   Land       Drainage    Clearing
Vegetation         and             Surface      Drainage    Drainage    Walls         Scour    Slide    Reconstruc-      of
Cloering      Compacting          Grading       Shaping     Repair   Rpaire         Control  Reoval        tio:      Culverte
Region         (km)       (kmn)   (.8)      (km)    (62)       (.8)         (a)      (.8)        (units)    (13)         (a)        (units)
Antloqui        62.0      48.0  42760       10? 820700        14175        S88        186         0.4      79470        1167        460
Atlintloo         2.4       1.2  1160          6   14778         602           1                             1056          47
Bolivar          20.8      14.1  14006        85  10060         4658         116        67                  26214         876
BoYcS            22.2      12.5  12162        49  181479        4948         64         48         0.0      16162         486        164
Cold"            15.0      10.0  9666         27   7969         8761         121        55                  20682         266        814
Cquet             2.9       2.0  2020          6   15150         556          6          4                   2727          64
Cume              9.8       6.5  6400         16  46000         2040         48         25         0.0      11160         172        108
Cigar            21.7      11.0  106"4        5   186090        4517           2        22         0.1       6178         485         87
Cirdoba          11.6       6.C   7960        20   59850        2494          6C        29                  18466         216
Cundin_arca    81.4        19.6  19412        62  174878        7649         198        95         0.1      86608         607        262
Choci             6.1       4.5  4200         11   81500        1804         28         15         0.1       7007         118a        6
Cuajira           6.0       2.9  2900         12  37265         1816           9         9                   8468         120
Hufla             4.2       8.0   2618         6  22968         1018         27        1s          0.1       4957          80         44
aglene           18.6       8.7  6606         27  76078         8a88         89        48                   16140         288



Lined                Bridge                 Side                i5
Regravelling                       Side        Side   Raining   Rpalr and  Land          Drainage   Clearing *
Vegtation         and             Surface      Drainap    Drainage   Wall           Scour    Slide    Recontruc-    of    " 0
Clearing     Cmacting            Gradlno       Shaping    Repa Ir   Repaire      Control  Removal       tion      Culvert. 
Region         (km)     (km)      (68)      (km.)   (o2)     (.8)         ( )      (.8)        (unite)    (.8)         (a)      (unite) ,0
mea             29.6      21.0  20440        61 15880          580?         22       a8         0.2      24766         U9          11$
NMriso           17.4       9.0  9081        40 105428         8786         27       2          0.1       9706         848         189
N. de Santnder 16.6        10.5  10416       88  92061         4086        107       52                  19180         822
Putiumy.          8.5      2.5  2440          61680             68           2       4                    2892          64          so
Quindio          67.6     49.0 48462        180 44821?        19889        84       198                  74064        1648
Riear ldo        U.5       19.0  16689       78 196082         7592        120       ?8                  27244         667         410
Santander        17.5      12.5  12040       sO  90800         8679         62       86         0.1      18578         822         149
Sucre            9.2       4.6  4647         19  67500         1924          2       10                   8678         166
TolIms            8.4      2.0  2045          6   19182         608         16       9                    8628          66
Vaill            14.1      9.0  O860         27  77566         8408         91      44          0.1      16449         272         114
TOTAL          461.6    286.9 281866        908 2661062      102899       1989    1088          1.1    446771         878a        2446
Source: FNCV
October 199



- 39 -
TABLE 9
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Annual Provision (1990) for Emergency Maintenance of Roads
Platform         Land Slide    Side Drainage
Length      Reconstruction         Removal    Reconstruction
Region        (km)             (km)               (m3)           (km)
Antioquia        20.3             5.6              33,500           6.0
Atltntico         2.3             0.5               2,400           0.3
Bolivar           9.8             4.0             23,540            4.1
Boyact           25.1             6.1              31,000           4.2
Caldas            7.2             2.1              13,000           2.7
Caquet&           9.6             2.5              16,000           0.0
Cauca            10.7             2.9              16,600           2.8
Cdsar             6.9             2.0              13,300           2.6
C6rdoba           7.2             1.9              10,800           1.8
Cundinamarca     17.9             4.8              27,900           4.0
Choc6             2.1             0.6               3,100           0.5
Guajira           4.8             1.1               5,500           0.7
Huila            14.3             3.9              23,100           4.1
Magdalena         9.2             3.0              17,810           3.1
Meta             16.6             3.8              17,700           2.0
Narifo           12.6             3.0             14,100            1.7
N/Santander       9.8             3.7              21,620           3.8
Putumayo          3.4             1.0               6,600           1.3
Quindlo           4.2             1.2               6,900           1.2
Risaralda         3.8             0.9               5,000           0.7
Santander        12.4             3.1             17,000            2.6
Sucre             7.6             1.8              9,100            1.2
Territorios
Tolima           12.0             3.1             17,800            2.9
Valle            10.2             2.8              16,300           2.9
TOTAL         240.0            65.4            369,670           57.2
Source: FNCV
July 1989



- 40 -
TABLE 10
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
FNCV'S Sources and Applications of Funds
(H Millions)
1990       1991           1992        !993
SOURCES
10? National Road Fund    27.80        28.70          29.50        30.40
Government Contribution
to Debt and Service        11.10       16.80          17.90        14.80
New Loan                   10.69       14.18          15.09        15.04
Other, (Including Special
Government Programs)       1.70        1.49           0.75         3.37
Municipal Funds             2.85         3.52          3.85         4.15
Civil Av. Fund              2.30        2.30           2.20         2.20
Agreements                  0.74         0.74          0.75         0.76
Beer Tax                    0.16        0.14           0.12         0.10
Property Tax                0.01        0.01           0.01         0.01
TOTAL                      57.35       67.88          70.17        70.83
APPLICATIONS
Investments                28.54       34.85          36.46        36.83
Debt Service (Govt.)       11.10       16.80          17.90        14.80
Administration              8.00        8.06           8.13         8.20
Debt Service (FNCV)         9.71        8.17           7.68        11.00
TOTAL                      57.35       67.88          70.17        70.83
SOURCE: FNCV and Bank Estimates
OctobeL 1989



-41 -                    TABLE 11
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
First Year Civil Works Program
Region             Municipality      Sub-Proiect              Length (km)
Antioquia          Taraza-Caceres   Barro Blanco-El                10.6
Calvario
Remedios         Santa Isabel-Rio Mata         13.2
Arboletes        Carmelo-Lim. Cordoba            4.0
(Sector Garrapatas-
Agua3 Vivas)
Atlantico          Piojo             Aguas Vivas-Saco               7.7
Piojo            Hibacharo-Piojo                5.0
Bolivar            Nechi-Achi        Villa Uribe-P.Nuevo-          25.0
Las Flores
Simiti           Simiti-San Luis-San           25.5
Pablo (Sector Simiti-
San pablo-       San Luis)
Simiti           Simiti-San Luis-San           20.5
Pablo (Sector Cruce
Ramal)
Boyaca             Labranzagrande   Labranzagrande-Pisba           24.0
Pisba            (Sec kml5-Pisba)
Pauna            Ibacapi-Alto del              20.0
Sarval (Lim.
Santander)
Ramiriqui        Ramiriqui (km                 24.0
7.5)-San Antonio-
Fatima
Caldas             Supia'            La Clara-La Trina-             9.0
Gaspar-Guascal
Samana           El Chochal-El Bosque-         12.0
El Abejorro (Sector
KO-K 12)
Caqueta            Montaflita        La Union-Peneya-               6.0
Solano (Sector
kml5-km2l)
Belen de los     Aletones (km9)-Los             5.0
Andequies        Angeles
San Jose del     Yurayaco-Fraguita-             3.0
Fragua           Angostura (Sec
kmlZ-Zabaletas)
San Jose del     San Jose-Yurayaco             23.0
Fragua           (km23)
San Vicente      S. Vicente-Lozada-            29.0
Llanos Yari (Sec
kiO-Los Pozos)



- 42 -
TABLE 11
Page 2 of 4
Region             Municipality      Sub-Prolect               Length (km)
Cauca               Sta. Rosa        Sta. Rosa-La Marquesa          15.0
Timbio           Alto de S.Jose-Pan de          19.0
Azucar-El Porvenir
Cajibio-         Dinde-El Playon                17.0
Morales           (Sector km9-km26)
El Tambo         Granada-La Paloma              20.0
Cesar              Manaure           Manaure-Sabana Rubia-          25.0
Frontera
Curumani         Curumani-Bobilandia             3.0
(Sector K30-K33)
San Alberto      El Pescado-La Cuabre           12.0
Cordoba            Tierralta         Palmira-El Diamante            12.0
Tierralta        Carepa-Saiza                   10.4
Pto.             La Rica-Pto. Lopez-             4.8
Libertador       Tierradentro
Cundinamarca       Yacopi            Bilbao de Theran-              10.0
LLano Mateo
Choco              Acandi            Titumate-Balboa-San            11.2
Miguel-Acandi (Sector
kml7-kmK35)
Unguia           Unguia-Sta. Maria              17.0
(Sector km8-Sta.
Maria)
Guajira            Villanueva        Villanueva-La                  16.0
Culebrera
Huila              Algeciras-Pto.   Aguas Claras-Santana            24.7
Rico             Ramos
Suaza            Avispero-Alto                  13.5
Horizonte
Baraya           Las Perlas-Rio Negro            8.0
Magdalena           Fundacion        La Cristalina Alta-La          10.0
Galaxia
San Sebastian    El Escudo-San                  15.0
Sebastian
El Dificil       El Dificil-Bellavista          19.5
Fundacion        Santa Rosa-La                  26.0
Cristalina Alta
Meta                Vistahermosa     Conexion Trochas 28 a          11.0
30-San Juan de Arama
Lejanias         Naranjal-Guarumal               9.5



- 43 -
TABLE 11
Page 3 of 4
Region             Municipality      Sub-Project              Lengrh (km)
Nariflo            Policarpa         Remolino-Altamira              7.0
Cumbal           San Felipe-Tiuquer-           15.0
San Juan
Mallama          El Guavo-La Oscurana            7.0
(Sector kmlO-kml7)
El Rosario       Remolino-El Rosario           15.0
(Sector kmlO-kml5)
Los Andes        Sotomayor-Aminda              25.0
Norte de           El Carmen         Guamalito-Culebritas-         12.0
Santander                            Santa Ines (Sector
km8-Vegas de Aguilar)
Tibu             Versalles-Playa                7.0
Cotiza
Ocafia           Ocana-La Virgen-Lim.          14.0
Cesar (Sec Purgatorio
Lim. Cesar)
Labateca         Labateca-La Angelina-         20.0
Pamplona         La legia
Chitaga-Toledo   San Bernardo-                 21.0
Chucarima
Putumayo           Kocoa             Condagua-Yunguillo             6.0
Quindio            Pijao             Maravillas-El Salado-          8.0
Valle del Chili
Genova           Limites-San Juan               6.0
Alto-Costa Rica
Genova           El Cedral-La Maizema-         18.6
La Topacia
Risaralda          Pueblo Rico       Regaderos-La Cumbre-          17.0
Citru-Soaya-Danubio
Balboa           San Luis-Cruces-              17.0
Tambores-Esparta
La Celia         La Celia-La Montoya-          15.0
La Planta
Santander          Guacamayo         Guacamayo-Sta. Rita-          16.0
Rio Oponcito
Pto. Wilches     Sta. Catalina-Bocas           14.0
del Rosario-Vijagual
La Paz Santa     La Paz-Mirabueno-             24.0
Helena           Santa Helena
Cimitarra        Cimitarra-La India            28.0
Saa Vicente      Angosturas-Varsoria            8.2



- 44 -
TABLE 11
Page 4 of 4
Region             Municipalitv      Sub-Project              Length (km)
Sucre              Majagual          San Marcos-Majagual           30.0
(Sector La Siernita-
Majagual)
Since            Since-Buenavista              26.4
Buenavista
Territorios        Puerto Inirida   Rio Inirida-Rio                37.0
Nacionales                           Guainia
Paz de Ariporo   Teislandia-El Vergel           8.5
Tamara-Sacama    El Degredo-El Vergel          14.5
Puerto Carreno   El Progreso/Gaviotas          34.0
Tress Matas-Remedios
Puerto Carrefio  Guerima-Puerto                22.0
Oriente
Puerto Carreffo   La Primavera-Puerto          40.0
Carreflo
Tolima             Ataco             Santiago Perez-                5.0
Campohermoso
Ronceavalles     Roncesvalles-                 20.0
Yerbabuena
Villarica        La Colonia-Alto                 7.0
Altamizal
Caparral         Chaparral-San Jose de         10.0
las Hermosas
Valle              Bolivar           Catres-El Embarcadero         25.0
Sourcet FNCV
October 1989



- 45 -
TABLE 12
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule1
($ Million)
Bank FY and         Disbursed in                  Cummulative
Quarter Ending      Quarter         FY            Disbursement      2
1990                               9.1
March 31, 1990         7.52                          7.5           14
June 30, 1990          1.6                           9.1           17
1991                               7.5
September 30, 1990    1.6                           10.7           20
December 31, 1990      1.6                          12.3           22
March 31, 1991         2.5                          14.8           27
June 30, 1991          1.8                          16.6           30
1992                               7.7
September 30, 1991    1.7                           18.3           33
December 31, 1991      1.7                          20.0           36
March 31, 1992         2.5                          22.5           41
June 30, 1992          1.8                          24.3           44
1993                               7.7
September 30, 1992    1.7                           26.0           47
December 31, 1992      1.7                          27.7           50
March 31, 1993         2.5                          30.2           55
June 30, 1993          1.8                          32.0           58
1994                               7.7
September 30, 1993    1.7                           33.7           61
December 31, 1993      1.7                          35.4           64
March 31, 1994         2.5                          37.9           69
June 30, 1994          1.8                          39.7           72
1995                               7.7
September 30, 1994    1.7                           41.4           75
December 31,1994       1.7                          43.1           78
March 31, 1995         2.5                          45.6           83
June 30, 1995          1.8                          47.4           86
1996                               7.6
September 30, 1995    1.7                           49.1           89
December 31, 1995      1.7                          50.8           92
March 31, 1996         2.5                          53.3           97
June 30, 1996          1.7                          55.0          100
SOURCE: FNCV and Bank Estimates
November 1988
1/ Corresponds with profile of Bank-financed transport projects in
Colombia
2/ Includes $5.0 for Special Account



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2                       COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of Decentralization Measures
Background
1.       Administrative decentralization measures started back in 1983 with
a fiscal reform (Law 14) which sought to strengthen local government
finances --mainly through increased property taxing powers--, and offset
the long (40 year) declining share of local and regional fiscal revenues in
total tax resources.  The lack of administrative capacity frustrated the
effort by preventing most local governments from regularly updating the
property tax base and systematically applying the industry and commerce tax
and the vehticle registration and licensing charges.
2.       In 1986, new legislation (Law 12) provided for the transfer of
certain responsibilities related to the supply of services in the water,
sewerage, health, education, urban transport, urban development,
agricultural extension, public works and social welfare sectors. At the
same time, the law transfers increasing shares of the national Value Added
Tax 'VAT) revenues to local governments, from close to 212 in 1987
(equivalent to $380 million) to the maximum of 502 projected for 1992
(equivalent to $700 million). The formula for transferring such resov.rces
rewards local fiscal efforts and favors smaller jurisdictions (less than
100,000 inhabitants). The law also stipulates that a fixed 74.2Z of the
VAT transfers is to be used for investment and maintenance in specific
public service facilities and areas, viz. rural roads, river ports,
transport terminals, streets, market places, schools, health centers,
retirement homes, rural and urban electrification, basin protection
reforestation, parks, cultural and sport facilities, and garbage disposal.
3.       Based on Law 12 of 1986, the Government issued Decrees 77 to 81 in
1987 identifying the public functions to be transferred to local
governments from 14 centralized agencies and all five CORPES, and defining
the specific timetable for these changes to be completed. However,
insufficient consideration was given to the administrative capacity of
local governments to assume such responsibilities and, to close such gaps
and continue implementing the decentralization process, a series of
regulations need to be proposed, some with effects across sectors and
others sector-specific.
4.       Local governments are nominally responsible for maintaining that
part of the rural roads network considered "municipal". However,
substantial preparatory work needs to be undertaken before they are able to
assume that function, and realistically, the full transfer is likely to
require a sustained, long-term effort. The extent and characteristics of
the rural roads have to be inventoried for the network to be subsequently
classified and the functions of local and regional governments defined.
Organizational structures have to be set up and staffed to deal with the
transferred road manngement functions, and technical, financial and
administrative capacity has to be developed accordingly. Meanwhile, the



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
existing decentralization regulations start the process of local
participation in the decision-making process, and mandate FNCV to establish
cost-financing arrangements for capital and maintenance expenditures on the
road network.
5.       Notwithstanding the passing of laws and decrees, the studies
commissioned by Government agencies and the draft new regulations under
preparation, the major step towards actual administrative decentralization
was taken in 1988, when local officials were elected by popular vote for a
two-year term, ceasing to be Central Government appointees.
Implementation To Date
6.       Actual implementation of the decentralization policy is still at
an early stage. The lack of administrative and technical capacity and of
organizational structure at the local level, as well as the role of the
regional governments which was largely overlooked by the present
decentralization regulations, is slowing down the process. An important
piece of legislation calling for the creation of a new financial
intermediary --the Territorial Developmen., Financial Corporation-- to
channnel credit financing to local governments has not yet been approved.
Local governments, moreo-er, still lack clear guidelines for preparing
annual budgets though a decree is being prepared laying down some ground
rules. Likewise, regulations and practical guidelines have yet to be drawn
up in some critical areas of administration such as co-financing,
investment selection, management and other logistic arrangements.
7.       A Cabinet-level task force --the Public Administration Re-
organization Committee-- has been established and met several times during
the past 18 months to deal primarily with the placement of personnel made
redundant by the organizational changes. Furthermore, an interagency task
force has been established, with funding from UNDP, to oversee the ongoing
process and make recommendations, especially to overcome constraints posed
by weaknesses in administrative capacity at local level and inadequate
intergovernmental coordination. This group is expected to come up with a
blueprint for a nationwide system for monitoring implementation and a
training program aimed at strengthening the managing capabilities at the
local level. Currently, training in accounting, budgeting and personnel
management is provided to staff of local governments, but much remains to
be done.
8.       In the framework of Law 12 and Decree 77, and in the course of
preparing the project subject of this report, FNCV developed standards and
procedures, and sought to adapt its organiza%ion and functions to
effectively begin implementing the decentralization policy in the rural
roads sector. Physical and condition characteristics of some 24,000 km of
rural roads were inventoried, a Maintenance Division was proposed within
its organizational structure, technical assistance and coordinating
faculties were delegated to its Regional Offices and their staff was
increased, formulae for cofinancing different road works with local
governments were studied and approved, and procedures for identifying and
coordinating road investment and maintenance expenditures were prepared and
have been approved by decree (Annex 2).



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Regulation for Regional Coordination of the Roads Sub-sectorl
Decree by which Articles 72 and 73 of Decree 77 of 1988 are
implemented.
The President of the Republic of Colombia, in exercise of his
constitutional powers, and especially those of Article 120, part 3 of the
Constitution, decrees:
Article One.-   Cofinancing Requests From Regional and Local Governments.
With respect to articles 72 and 73 of Decree 77 of 1988, the heads
of regional and local governments will submit to the corresponding FNCV
Regional Offices the requests for construction, improvement or maintenance
of rural roads for which there is interest and willingness to cofinance.
The requests will include information on contributions or resources
available or programmed for cofinancing.
Article Two.-   Technical Council For Regional Coordination.
In each of FNCV's Regional Offices a Technical Council For
Regional Coordination is hereby established with the following members: (a)
the head of the FNCV Regional Office, who will chair it; (b) the head of
the Departmental Planning Office or whoever fulfills such function, (c) the
head of the Departmental Public Works Secretariat or whoever fulfills such
function; (d) INCORA's Regional Manager; (e) the Regional Director for the
Integrated Rural Development Fund; and (f) a representative for Special
Government Programs.
In each of FNCV's Regional Offices with functions in Commissariats
and Intendencies the respective Technical Council will have the following
members: (a) the head of the FNCV Regional Office, who will chair it; (b) a
representative of DAINCO; (c) a representative of INCORA; and (d) a
representative for Special Government Programs.
The Executive Secretary of the Technical Council will rest with
the Chief of the Engineering Section in each FNCV Regional Office.
Article Three.- Functions of the Technical Council For Regional
Coordination.
The Council will fulfill the following functions: (a) review and
comment upon the requests for cofinancing of road construction and
improvement civil works submitted to FNCV's Regional Offices by local and
regional authorities, taking into account the cofinancing arrangements
established by FNCV's Board of Directors, and the priority programs of the
National Government; and (b) ensure the permanent exchange of information
between the different Government agencies in matters related to
construction, improvement and maintenance of the secondary and tertiary
regional road network.
1/    (Free translation of Decree)



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Article Four.-   Meetings of the Council.
The Technical Council For Regional Coordination will ordinarily
meet every two months, and extraordinarily whenever convened by the head of
riiGV's Regional Office.
The Executive Secretary of the technical Council for regional
Coordination will report the results to FNCV's Director General by not
later than eight (8) days after the end of each meeting.
Article Five.-   Approval of Programs and Projects.
FNCV's Director General will review the recommendations of the
corresponding Technical Councils for Regional Coordination, and will decide
which construction and improvement sub-projects or programs can be
cofinanced. Decisions made will be made not later than ninety (90) days
after receiving the results of each meeting of the Technical Council for
Regional Coordination, and will be reported to the corresponding head of
FNCV's Regional Office, the region's governor (or equivalent) and the local
mayors.
Article Six.-    Cofinancing.
According to the regulation for cr-inancing issued by FNCV's Board
of Directors, the cofinancing contributions of regional and local
governments may be made in: (a) budget resources; (b) equipment or
materials; (c) labor; and (d) services for studies, engineering designs or
civil works supervision.
The contribution may be made for a whole progrr.m or for specific
sub-projects of a program, including studies, engineering designs, civil
works, maintenance and supervision of road works.
Other public or private institutions may also contribute to the
financing in the same manner.
Article Seven.-   Maintenance.
The responsibility for maintenance of the roads constructed and
improved corresponds to the cofinancing regional or local government.
Article Eight.-   Property Revaluation.
The regional or local government that cofinances a road program or
sub-project, once the works have been completed, will promote the
revaluation of the properties that benefitted by the investment.
Article Nine.-    Budget Programming.
FNCV may submit its draft annual budget with funding allocations
for cofinancing aggregated for each region when the sub-projects have not
been defined by FNCV's Director General by the deadline for its submission
in the budgeting process. Within the first ten (10) days following the end
of each four-month period in the year, FNCV will send to DNP the list of
sub-projects approved.
Article Ten.-     Environmental Statement and Studies.
Corresponds to local and regional governments to request INDERENA
to define the areas where environmental studies are required prior to the
execution of rural road construction and improvement civil works. If such
studies are needed, the agency responsible for executing the respective



- 50
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
investment program or sub-project will request the approval of scope of
study, and will carry out the environmental impact study, according to the
regulation established in the National Code for Natural Resources.
Article Eleven.- Technical Requirements for Sub-project Execution.
FNCV will issue technical standards for construction, improvement
and maintenance of rural roads which apply to all entities executing
cofinanced road works.
Article Twelve.- Validity.
This decree is valid from the moment of its publication and
supersedes other regulations.
April 1989



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Cofinancing Regulations for Local Governments1
The Board of Directors of the National Agency for Feeder Roads, in
exercise of its legal powers, especially those assigned by Article 73 of
Decree 77 of 1987, resolves:
Article One.-   Percentages of Construction and Improvement Costs to be
Cofinanced.
The percentage of cofinancing for construction and improvement
sub-projects shall be calculated as follows: (a) For municipalities with
less than 100,000 inhabitants, the sharing percentage mandated for each
local government will be equal to the value resulting from the VAT revenues
transferred each year and restricted to be used for investments, expressed
in millions of pesos, divided by ten (10); (b) For municipalities with
more than 100,000 but less than 499,999 inhabitants, 20X of the sub-
project's cost; (c) For Departments and Municipalities with 500,000 or
more inhabitants, 302 of the sub-project's cost; (d) For Intendencies and
Commissariats, the percentage as in (a) above but applied to all the VAT
transfer for investment.
Article Two.-   Contribution.
The minimum contribution of regional and local governments shall
be the result of applying the cofinancing percentage to the total cost of
the road work.
When the sub-project execution extends over more than one fiscal
period, the cofinancing contribution will extend proportionally to the
projected costs of the road work over such period, including adjustments to
the costs (for additional work and price adjustments).
For construction and improvement sub-projects, the contributions
from regional and local governments may be made in money or in equivalent
works, studies and supervision of works.
Article Three.- Contribution for Maintenance.
The minimum contribution of regional and local governments toward
maintenance shall be: (a) For contract maintenance, the financial
contribution shall be set following the procedure and ruling spelled out in
Articles One and Two, above. Labor contributed towards the FNCV-determined
costs of maintenance activities may also be valued and accounted; (b) For
force account maintenance, using FNCV staff and equipment, the contribution
of regional and local governments shall not be less than the labor required
for mowing, cleaning of ditches and culverts, and, if required, materials
and other inputs.
1/ (Free translation of FNCV's Board of Directors Resolution 107, of
December 7, 1988)



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Article Four.- Contribution for Force Account Construction.
Though FNCV's equipment is primarily used for maintenance
activities, in exceptional cases earth moving works may be carried out over
a maximum length of 3 km, in which case the regional or local government
will com it itself to supply materials and labor necessary for construction
of drainage elements under the direction of the respective FNCV Regional
Office.
Article Five.- Contr4bution for Bridge- Construction.
The cofinancing contribution of the regional or local government
shqall be determined in the same way as for road construction and
improvement. Besides money contributions, only the equivalent value of
related soil and design studies shall be accepted.
Article Six.-   Contributions Above the Set Minimum and Central Government
Priority Programs.
FNCV shall give preference to those cofinancing requests submitted
by regional and local governments which offer to contribute a higher share
of its total budgetted investment resources in the relevant fis-al periods,
over and above the minima set in this Resolution, or to those which form
part of Central Government priority programs or projects.
Article Seven.- Implementation Norms.
FNCV's Director General is responsible for issuing and adopting
procedures and norms to comply with the present Resolution.
Article Eight.- Validity.
This Resolution is valid from the date of publication.
April 1989



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of Procedures for Selecting Construction and
Improvement Sub-proiects, Including Environmental Criterie
1.       This annex outlines the procedures, spelled out in FNCV's
"Methodology for Socio-economic Project Evaluation", to be consecutively
followed to screen, pre-select and select individual road construction and
improvement investments (sub-projects) for inclusion in the project. They
represent a coherent and systematic approach, supported by economic and
environmental criteria, to evaluate road investments and determine
priorities. The procedures take into account the functions transferred to
local administrations by recent decentralization regulations, as well as
the need for efficient coordination between different management levels
(local, regional and national) in the roads sub-sector. The timing for
each step to produce the expected results is critical, as the final
decisions need to made at the time of budget preparation, and engineering
studies need to be carried out prior to the tendering of works.
2.       Timely routine and periodic maintenance works on roads built with
adequate technical standards, and the corresponding priority allocation of
funds are to be decided on technical grounds, based upon regular level-of-
service thresholds.
Local (municipal) Screening
3.       The process begins with the identification of possible road works
made through requests that will be submitted to the mayor or mayors with
jurisdiction over the location of the proposed road works. These requests,
usually formulated through representatives commissioned by interested
communities, are and will continue to be supplemented with those of other
local and regional parties and the mayors themselves. The procedures
require that requests be accompanied by general and easily obtained
information, which the mayor's office collects in a standard form to
facilitate processing. The information refers to (a) the characteristics
and location of the proposed road works (for example, estimated length for
construction, type of terrain, bridges missing or unsafe, length of poorly
drained or hazardous sections), (b) the distance from the communal or other
center to the nearest existing road, (c) the number, type and duration of
interruptions to traffic services, (d) the present population, number and
size (by ranges) of farms, and area under cultivation, (e) the range of
services presently available (for example, in health, education, banking,
agriculture extension), (f) the basic infrastructure available (for
example,irrigation, aqueducts, electrification), and (g) the natural
forests, parks, reserves, flood plains, springs and river sources in the
area.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
4.       The standard form also includes est mates of costs, appropriate to
each region, topographic area and type of road work, which are provided to
each mayor by FNCV, through its Regional Offices, and a system of points to
rank the requests. With the ranked requests and the specific cost-sharing
arrangements established by FNCV and corresponding to each municipality and
type of road work, the procedures require the mayors to review the local
financing available and decide which sub-projects constitute local
priority, which can be postponed and which dropped. This step is to be
completed by March 31 of each year, for possible inclusion in the program
and budget of the following year.
Regional Pre-selection
5.       Road investment sub-projects screened as local priority by the
mayors are then sent to the Director of the corresponding FNCV Regional
Office. The procedure at this stage requires that the local priorities and
supporting information be reviewed with a regional perspective, together
with relevant planning, environmental and public works policies and
guidelines, data from the inventory on road conditions and, when available,
each municipality's actual performance and programmed activities, as agreed
under the project, to gradually assume full management responsibility for
maintaining the classified network of the rural roads (para. 2.25 and
2.26). To this end, the head of each FNCV Regional Office is required to
prepare a draft annual road works program, based on the lists of screened
local priorities, and convene and chair the meeting of the Regional
Committe formed with representatives from the regional government
(department, commissariat or intendency), usually the Secretary for Public
Works or the Head of the Planning Unit, and the national and regional
agencies, special programs and private agencies with regional involvement
in roads.
6.       The Regional Committee is to meet every two months to ensure
coordination between local and regional objectives and priorities, and
determine and monitor the contribution from the represented bodies towards
cost financing, in addition to the funding committed from local sources.
Particularly important to the task of the Regional Committee is the
objective of balancing the construction and improvement investment effort
with the capacity and expenditure effort for road maintenance. Hence,
information on road conditions and activities carried out by the regional
administrations, as well as on expenditures and funding available are
critical to the task of the Regional Committee that, through the head of
FNCV's Regional Offices, is required to submit to FNCV's management in
Bogota a revised draft annual work program for the region and its
corresponding financing. The procedure recommends that a list of "stand
by' sub-projects be considered, in case some of those in the draft program
do not meet the final requirements for inclusion in the project.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Evaluation and Selection
7.       The next step requires that FNCV, through its Planning Unit,
review the information received from each Regional Committee, with the
objective of ensuring consistency between local-regional and national road
investment priorities and policies. FNCV then proceeds to obtain the
additional field data, and carry out the investigations necessary to
evaluate the economic costs and benefits of each possible sub-project. The
costs and benefits, where appropriate, include those resulting from
environmental damage prevention works. These tasks are to be carried out
by the Regional Offices, with support from, and in coordination with, as
required, other agencies and FNCV units, and under guidance and supervision
from the Planning Unit. This unit has the economic and technical
expertise, including an environmental planning and assessment group.
8.       The approach followed to evaluate and establish priorities of
possible sub-projects is based on the standard methodology for estimating
producer and consumer surplus, costs, and economic return indicators. The
benefits to be quantified are based on higher net economic value estimates
resulting from agricultural production, reduction of produce spoilage, and
lower transport costs for people and non-agricultural goods. Where
appropriate, estimates of increased farming area, diversification of
agricultural production and increased yields are also quantified. Costs
are those directly related with the proposed road civil works, including
the environmental damage prevention elements, and their supervision and
maintenance, with other complementary investments, and with agricultural
and other production activities in the area of influence of each sub-
project.
9.       Sub-projects going through or close to biological diversity
conservation areas and natural forest reserves are simply excluded from
consideration. Those in or close to wetlands, indigeneous settlements and
watershed areas, or in terrains susceptible to erosion, land slides and
flooding are subject to full environmental studies carried out by
consultants hired by PNCV under terms of reference and guidelines reviewed
and approved by INDERENA. The studies and recommendations are also
reviewed by INDERENA and support this agency's rejection or approval of
sub-projects.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
l
Outline of Terms of Reference for Coordinating
Technical Assistance to Local and Regional Administrations
Background
1.       Colombia is estimated to have more than 55,000 km of secondary and
tertiary roads nominally under regional and local administrations.
Conditions of these roads are generally unsatisfactory because of
inadequate maintenance, combined with problems such as insufficient
drainage, incomplete engineering studies, and poor construction
specifications and quality control. Practically all local administrations
as well as some regional ones do not have in their organizations
specialized units responsible for managing the road networks. The problem
is compounded by some 15 other institutions that, besides FNCV and the
regional and local administrations, are involved with road construction and
maintenance.
2.       Recent regulations issued (Law 12 of 1986 and Decrees 77 to 81 of
1987) have energized the administrative decentralization policy, which
started back in 1983 with a fiscal reform (Law 14 of 1983), by identifying
the public functions to be transferred to local governments, one of which
is the supply of road infrastructure. Central to the success of the
decentralization effort is the development or strengthening of the
administrative and technical capacity of local and regional governments to
assume first and foremost maintenance management responsibilities, and
eventually full road management functions. ESAP has already a strong role
in assisting the local governments to improve their financial management.
Objectives
3.       The main objectives of the professional services are to structure,
guide, coordinate and reinforce MOPT's and lNCV's efforts, through
technical assistance to local and regional administrations, to define and
develop their institutional functions, organization and responsibilities
for managing the roads sub-sector, and especially maintenance of the
network. This assistance, focused primarily on local governments as they
become involved in cofinancing civil works with FNCV, will be jointly
provided, to a large extent, by ESAP, under contract with FNCV, and
selected FNCV staff and consultants, as required. Furthermore, a wide
spectrum of existing road management practices, technical knowledge, tools
and procedures available in FNCV, including methods and systems for
screening, evaluating and programming of investments, standards and
specifications for designing, constructing and maintaining roads, bridges
and other structures, can and should be shared and used by all government
administration levels involved in road management activities.



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
Scope of Services
4.       The tasks shall include, but not necessarily be limited tot
(a) reviewing methods, procedures, standards and specifications
for screening, evaluating, programming, contracting,
designing, constructing, supervising, inspecting, maintaining
and financing road infrastructure;
(b) assisting to implement the maintenance management system in
all of FNCV's regional offices, and to adjust to lo:cal
conditions;
(c) reviewing and assessing the number, experience and possible
involvement of selected FNCV professional staff and other
national training agencies;
(d) assessing the present organization, staffing, equipment and
other resources available for the roads sub-sector, and
particularly for road maintenance, of the local and regional
administrations involved and likely to be involved with FNCV
in road works during 1990-1993;
(e) identifying the road maintenance requirements and the
corresponding institution-building efforts needed, and drawing
up, reviewing and updating action programs, in agreement with
the respective local and regional administrations, to
effectively maintain annually agreed sections of the network,
and eventually the whole network;
(f) establishing and improving the organization and road
maintenance management and operational procedures, to assist
in carrying out continuous surveys of road conditions, perform
maintenance activities, evaluate capacity available and obtain
and use other data required to manage maintenance;
(g) assisting to implement the economic-environmental methods and
procedures to evaluate road investments;
(h) coordinating and providing the necessary training;
(i) assisting in carrying out maintenance and the related actions;
and
(j) implementing a performance monitoring system covering all
levels of administration for rural roads.
5.       The technical assistance will take into account initially the
sections of the road network which are considered of higher maintenance
priority by each local and regional administration. Completion of the full
inventory of the rural road network in Colombia and the definition of road
management responsibilities between national, regional and local



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
administrations, a task which will be carried out by MOPT before December
31, 19f,O, will permit the technical assistance to help program maintenance
and institution-building actions based on real priorities.
6.       Training courses and seminars will be organized by region or, when
technically and geographically practical, by group of regions. The
Training Coordinator and ESAP will assess if it is warranted to secure the
involvement of other national training agencies, such as the Servicio
Nacional de Aprendizaje.
Staffing
7.       It is estimated that the following consultant specialists will be
required to lead and coordinate the staff of FNCV responsible for
transferring technical and managerial know-how to road units of local and
regional governments:
Staff-months
Road Maintenance Engineer, experienced in
public management of road maintenance
activities and relevarnt maintenance
management systems; (head of the team)                   36
Training Coordinator, experienced in planning
and managing training programs, preferably in
the area of road maintenance and services
supplied by regional/local administrations               24
Road Maintenance Management Specialists,
experienced in programming and monitoring
maintenance performance, including
productivity of activities, distribution of
equipment and manpower, costing and accounting           24
Reporting
8.       Within two months of the starting date, the head of the team of
consultants and the Training Coordinator will submit an Inception Report
stating the detailed work program and schedule. Following the submission
of this report, the Road Maintenance Engineer will submit at three-month
intervals (by mid-March, mid-June, mid-September and mid-December) brief
progress reports consisting basically of tables listing the staff involved,
the work performed related to that programmed for the reporting period,
and the updated program for the following 12 months. These reports will be
replaced by those generated as part of the maintenance management and
performance monitoring systems.



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for the Study of Road-funding Strategies
Background
1.       Road transport is part of a system characterized by private
vehicle operators and publicly owned and maintained infrastructure. Except
for tolls that are a form of direct payment of user-related costs, the use
of infrastructure is generally paid for through taxes on vehicles and
vehicle-operating inputs such as fuels, oil and tires. Colombia has such
system which, over the years, has changed both in its structure as well as
in the level of the component charges. However, because data on road
expenditures, revenue sources of funding and road characteristics are
available only for the national administration level, only gross estimates
can be made for the regional and local administrative levels, and for the
whole road system.
2.       Furthermore, at national level, earmarked revenues based on fixed
taxes have been eroded by inflation and are no longer significant; other
revenue adjustments have often lagged behind inflation or alternative
economic values, have resulted from short rather than long term pricing
policies or have been guided by other-than-economic reasons. FNCV has been
increasingly forced to rely on funding from Central Government and other
sources, which vary from year to year independently of the need for
transport services. This has, with time, contributed to weaken planning
and programming of road expenditures. At the same time and only recently,
municipal funding sources have become a reality.
Obiectives
3.       The study will have the following two main objectives:
(a) to review the present structure and sources of funding
expenditures in the roads sub-sector; and
(b) to evaluate and recommend strategies to define, revise and
create funding sources and mechanisms for obtaining and
L                       collecting revenues sufficient to fully finance road
expenditures.
Scope of Services
4.       The study will be carried out during the second year of project
implementation (calender 1991), under the supervision of DNP and in close
coordination with NOPT and FNCV. It would include, but not necessarily be
limited to:



- 60 -
ARMEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(a) assessing future requirements of funds:
(b) reviewing available studies and procedures for allocating road
costs to users;
(c) analyzing the present system of obtaining and collecting road
user revenues; and
(d) evaluating strategies to implement changes in user revenues,
*                       simplifying the system and efficiently contributing to finance
local and regional road expenditures.
5.       The study will take into account the road funding requirements of
local and regional governments, especially for maintenance, based on their
respective functions and responsibilities, and after the road network has
been physically inventoried and legally classified. Competing claims for
funds available to local and regional governments will explicitly be
considered. The study will be carried out over a seven-month period.
Staffing
6.       The estimated professional staff requirements are as followss
Staff-months
Economist, experienced in estimating
vehicle user and road construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance costs            6
Economist/Financial Analyst, experienced
in fiscal policies and legislation              7
HighwL_- Engineer, experienced in
designing and estimating road work costs        1
Lawyer, experienced in tax reform and
public management                               2
16
Reporting
7.       A draft final report will be produced at the end of the fifth
month. DNP will submit it to the Bank for review, and comments will be
provided to the consultants before the end of the sixth month. The final
report will then be submitted before the end of the seventh month.
April 1989



- 61 -                    ANNEX 7
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Schedule of Main Events
Main Event                               Timing
1.       Review studies, project funding, action    September 1989, and
programs, sub-project selection,            Every March and
implementation and monitoring;              September from 1990
agree on annual actions required            to end of Project
2.       Project presented to Bank's Board            November 1989
3.       Advertise initial civil works               November 1989
tenders
4.       Begin technical assistance to               November 1989
local governments
5.       Begin implementation of civil               January 1990
works contracts
6.       Complete inventory of rural roads            June 1990
characteristics and conditions
7.       Complete functional-jurisdictional           September 1990
classification of rural roade
8.       Begin to formulate action programs with    September 1990
local administrations to maintain, and
strengthen capacity to maintain roads
9.       Advertise new tenders for civil works       October 1990
10.      Legal allocation of responsibilities         December 1990
by jurisdiction
11.      Complete study of road revenue fiscal        December 1990
strategies and agree on related actions
12.      Implement new civil works                    January 1991
13.      Advertise new tenders for civil works        October 1991,
IL                                                                 1992, and 1993
14.      Implement new civil works                    January 1992, 1993
and 1994.
15.      Project completion                           1994
16.      Loan closing                                 1995
April 1989



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
Project File Documents
1.       Costs of FNCV's Maintenance Program (1990).
2.       Summary of Road Requirements Based on Condition Inventory (1990).
3.       First Year Program of Road Construction and Improvement (1990).
4.       FNCV's Draft 1990 Budget.
5.       Physical Targets and Investment Levels for 1990-1993.
6.       Detail monthly Program of Road Construction and Improvement.
7.       FNCV's Force Account Program for Routine and Periodic Haintenance
of Roads (1990).
8.       Standard Bidding Documents for Civil Work. (September 1989).
9.       Organization and Staffing of FNCV's Maintenance Division (August
1989).
10.      Methodology and Procedures for Preselection and Evaluation of
Rural Roads (September 1989).
11.      Standard Documents and Procedures for Hiring Consultant for
Supervision and Design of Road Works (September l989s.
12.      Decree Number 1300 of July 1988 Revised Organizational Structure
of the National Fund for National Agency for Feeder Roads
13.      INDERENA's Review and Approval of Environmental Analysis and
Standard Terms of Reference for Environmental Studies.
14.      Diagnostic on Decentralization and Actions, Including Training
undertaken During Preparation of the Project.
15.      Cofinancing Commitments (Letters of Intent) may by Local
Government for Projects Works.
16.      Decree 1300 of July 1988 Establishing a New Organizational
Struccure for FNCV.
17.      Basic Regional Parameters for Preparation of Maintenance Program.
October 1989



COLOMBIA
SECOND RURAL ROADS SECTOR PROJECT
hislttuUons With hwovmfll In th T_dmou Secor
Ib~~~~~ __                         _ _                               ___
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Coamtd
#00                                       . ~ *
_        _ __                             ___II          Il ,I                                II
b. d                        I         I      A    I
CIwAd&  II                         EdILI                             0 I%
____ s                              ,    _    ______,
_                      .-LI                             ______
- _                                                        I
Pimo ad
CO*IU IOWNWA[ANd aid Ihiaa COib &WarGr Auedal*  PuauaTW Tauqim M oaa
OlhwtF_-d Cwa$m|
PRVATE SECTOR    VeIi.  kAasaA  hF6ia                                rsl TuwapoeS Campwks
Vs"Ik    AV 'T 



i  ~'i  fliji @KijN
R~~~~~~~~~~i  i    Sl 
I 
.~ii"   .



MAP SECTION
-
i



rJ  50      loo IV   4o      200        0      30
COLOMBIA                                                       KILO-M ET ER
i2                                                         o             50           too           ISO           200               .         
SECOND RURAL ROADS                                                          MILES
SECTOR PROJECT
-      Poend trunk roads
Paves rards
LUnpoad roads                                                                       El C-
0 FRCV Dirnbtorates
Railroads                                           ARANG         c,j    !.S
Railroad dicontinued                           PSLANT l                    ' F.       -     ,   ..    -
O    nterational airptorts                                                                       -
* Paved aoirportsS."
* Unpaved airportsF
* Seaports                                                                                         !
River ports
Navigabe ners
. Other rivera                                                                                                                                         1S
Elevations aton1e400 meters                                              N-
.Departnment, Intnodenda, and Contsarto bCo   ndartssJ       s/";
Internoatinal bwondarles
.                                 5Ol~~~~~~~~~~.A.tesi: t K S     *trap.   h..f.*k   'coMea            
~~   "  fflgf'<N~~~~~~~IECELEJO                    <                        Sty..-PL,
PANAMA>'Plh 
,p, +t  >9vE..Nrewc\ ,4^  t Pwz NORTE DE \            V E N EZUELA
-  E./C  .la < E ; W g  85Eple)   >R   NTANDj ;R
X~~~C~B N;t .>--' -'3K'rK                                                                      t                           _
if-   F                                                       -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P- P
S      ~ ~~~~~~ Iic 'k  (.--a
C)N;OUt0                                         AJAfERR ARAUC
ror,S, Oc~~~~~~~~~Eel tII.
ANOAES \                                   -~          aN       QU-                           I             C       _ . CAC,R A C           ClRF
5         *$,  ~~~~~~~~    17                -'                               .-s   kL~~~~~N, A-. 
i ° E~~~~~~~~~~ CL                                       U    A7pOR0)c4v,oji-w p'.o","
1 o 9 2 'on                                                                                           S
t  *C.Mete   9 A,,.otCo             ax                                                       . tmi,,I.
R~~~~~~~
Metes. ~~~~~~~~~    A'  - ~~~~~~~   C7S'    NA ,A
r   Ac. ~~~~~a~~o   ~~~   ~~              ,...~e        -                                                                                         .a.l
TO-                                                               *S,. et~~~~~~~~~~~ iw i.  4
p !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     4
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o  N ~~~ ~~  I                    '    Vw
B.                  ITAR
G.. ~ ~PUTU MAYOT
.2'    ECUADOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EUAO
z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MZ



