Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3157-CO
Loan Agreement
(Second Rural Roads Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
Dated March 7, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3157-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Republic of Colombia (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"1990-1993 Rural Roads Programs means the Borrower's rural roads 
investment and maintenance program for the years 1990 through 1993, furnished to the 
Bank under the Borrower's
letter to the Bank, dated September 29, 1989, as such program may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(c)
"Annual Program" means any annual rural roads investment and maintenance 
program prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(d)
"Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower approved by Decree No. 
2569 dated September 9, 1983, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
"Manual" means the Metodologia y Procedimientos la Preseleccion y 
Evaluacion de Caminos Vecinales, published by the Borrower in September, 1989 and as 
such Manual may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the 
Borrower;
(f)
"DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeacion, the National Planning 
Department of the Guarantor;
(g)
"pesos" means the currency of the Guarantor;
 
(h)
"road" means a rural road under the Borrower's jurisdiction;
 
(i)
"Sub-project" means a specific road maintenance, improvement or 
construction investment or expenditure included in an Annual Program and the Project;
(j)
"Eligible Sub-project" means a Sub-project, as so defined, which meets 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement and 
has been approved by the Bank for financing under the Loan; 
(k)
"Administrative Unit" means any of the following political and 
administrative subdivisions: Departamento, Comisaria, Intendencia or Municipalidad, as 
such terms are defined in the Guarantor's legislation; 
(l)
"Administrative Agreement" means an agreement between the Borrower and an 
Administrative Unit providing for Sub-project funding and institutional arrangements 
for effective participation by such Administrative Unit in road planning, management 
and maintenance;
(m)
"Region" means any of the Borrower's Regional Offices (Direcciones 
Regionales); and
(n)
"MOPT" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte, the Borrower's 
ministry of Public Works and Transportation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty-five million dollars 
Page  3
($55,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Banco de la Republica of the Guarantor on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, 
beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding 
such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated to 
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
Page  4
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, engineering, environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Not later than September 30 of each year, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank for approval, an annual road investment and maintenance program 
for the immediately following calendar year (of such scope and detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably requests including: (i) Sub-projects which meet the criteria set 
forth or referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; (ii) action programs to 
develop local and regional road maintenance and management
capabilities; and (iii) financing requirements and sources for such Sub-projects and 
programs specified by the content thereof and by Regions and Administrative Units.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall include in the Annual Programs only: (i) 
construction and improvement Sub-projects which meet the selection criteria and 
technical, economic, environmental and engineering standards set forth or referred to 
in the Manual, including, without limitation, that each such Sub-project shall have an 
economic rate of return, calculated in accordance with criteria, assumptions and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, equivalent to at
least 12%; (ii) maintenance Sub-projects which have been selected on the basis of 
updated road condition information and technical criteria, satisfactory to the Bank; 
and (iii) Sub-projects in Administrative Units where funds in amounts satisfactory to 
the Bank and the Borrower shall have been appropriated and spent in the previous year 
and allocated in the next year's budget, for periodic and routine maintenance 
activities on roads built for all-weather traffic service;
(b)
the Borrower shall not request approval from the Bank for financing under 
the Loan of a Sub-project unless: (i) such Sub-project is included in an Annual 
Program approved by the Bank; (ii) the Bank is satisfied with the number and 
qualifications of the staff of the Region in charge of the execution and supervision 
of such Sub-project; (iii) detailed engineering studies, satisfactory to the Bank have 
been completed for such Sub-project; (iv) starting in year 1991, the Bank is satisfied 
with the implementation performance of the Borrower and the respective Administrative 
Unit where the Sub-project is to be carried out with regard to (A) the Annual Program, 
(B) their obligations under relevant Administrative Agreements, and (C) routine and 
periodic maintenance activities in the area where the Sub-project is located; (v) 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Sub-project is located in Administrative 
Units other than the Distrito Especial de Bogota, Cali and Medellin; (vi) the 
Sub-project has been selected taking into account, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, 
the accessibility for purposes of execution and supervision of the areas where the 
Sub-project is to be carried out; and (vii) the Borrower is not receiving other 
external financing (including other Bank loans) for such Sub-projects.
Section 3.03. In the carrying out of the training programs under the Project, 
the Borrower shall:  
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
Page  5
the schedule for their implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than September 30 of each year exchange views with the Bank on 
the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and
Section 3.04. (a) Starting not later than September 30, 1990, the Borrower shall 
enter into
Agreements satisfactory to the Bank (the Administrative Agreements) with the 
Administrative Units participating in the execution of the 1990-1993 Rural Roads 
Program, which shall provide for the financial and other contributions to be made by 
the Borrower and the Administrative Unit for the carrying out of Sub-projects in the 
area under the latter's jurisdiction, the institutional arrangements required for such 
purposes and establish action programs aimed at developing the
Administrative Unit's capabilities to assume full responsibility in the management of 
its rural roads maintenance.
(b)
The Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations under each 
Administrative Agreement and, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive such Administrative Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall without limitation to the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, furnish to the Bank by March 31 and September 30 of 
each year, starting on March 31, 1990, a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, on: (a) the progress made in the execution of the 
Project; and (b) the achievement of the objectives of the 1990-1993 Rural Roads 
Program, as of the preceding semester ending December 31 and June 30, respectively.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank, and where 
appropriate with the Guarantor through MOPT and DNP, not later than March 31 and 
September 30 of each year on the following matters: (i) progress in the implementation 
of the Project, the respective Annual Program, the 1990-1993 Rural Roads Program and 
the Sub-projects, the funding requirements there for and the availability and sources 
of the financial resources required for such purposes; (ii) the
adequacy of the evaluation criteria, methods and procedures followed in the selection 
of  Sub-projects for the Annual Program; (iii) when so required, together with 
representatives of the Administrative Units, the progress in the execution of the 
action programs referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii), 3.03 (a) and 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement; (iv) the value and justification of road
works proposed for direct contracting and force account and the progress in the 
execution of such works; and (v) such other issues that the Bank, the Guarantor 
(through MOPT) or the Borrower may request.
(b)
Based on the conclusions of such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
prepare, within sixty days, action plans, satisfactory to the Bank, to improve its 
performance and resolve any outstanding problems or issues.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out such plans in a manner and according to 
timetables satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Procurement of civil works and consultants' services for engineering 
studies and supervision of civil works under the Project shall be made through 
standard documents, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than August 31, 1990, carry out the study included under Part E 
of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank the recommendations of 
Page  6
such study;
(c)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
recommendations; and
(d)
assist the Guarantor in the preparation and execution of the action 
program referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of the Guarantee Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and maintenance 
practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out its investment and maintenance 
programs in accordance with appropriate administrative and engineering practices, 
including inter alia, the establishment of an adequate balance between its 
construction, improvement as well as deferred, periodic and routine maintenance 
activities, in order to maintain the rural roads network for which the Borrower is 
responsible at an adequate level to ensure their efficient operation.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank promptly after its request all 
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request, concerning the Borrower's 
investment and maintenance programs.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts to reflect the resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Page  7
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if an event 
specified in paragraph (b) below shall have occurred and be continuing, the suspension 
of the Borrower's rights to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by 
the Bank to withdrawals in respect of Project
expenditures related to the Administrative Unit or Units involved:
(a)
that the Estatutos of the Borrower or any provision thereof shall have 
been amended, suspended or abrogated which would affect, materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the operation or financial condition of the Borrower or the 
performance of the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement; and
(b)
an Administrative Unit shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under an Administrative Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date June 7, l990, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  8
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Fondo Nacional de Caminos
  Vecinales
Avenida Caracas 63-57
Bogota D.E.
Colombia
Telex:
45866
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES
By /s/ Victor Mosquera Chaux
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated        % of
                        (Expressed in    Expenditures
     Category        Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)  Works              43,7000,000
  60%
 
(2)  Expenditures         1,000,000        100% of foreign
     under Part B                          expenditures
     of the Project                        and 80% of
                                           local expen-
                                           ditures
Page  9
(3)  Consultants'
     services:
     (a)  For engineer-  4,200,000         45%
          ing studies
          and designs
          and super-
          vision of
          civil works
     (b)  Other           300,000
  100% of foreign     
  expenditures and 
  50% of local
         expenditures
(4)  Training             500,000          100% of foreign
     activities                            expenditures and
     (including                            50% of local
     per diems,                            expenditures
     travel ex-
     penditures
     and materials)
(5)  Unallocated       5,300,000
     TOTAL            55,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under a Sub-project unless such Sub-project is an 
Eligible Sub project approved by the Bank for financing under the Loan and the 
Borrower and the respective Administrative Unit have entered into an Administrative 
Agreement with respect to or including such Sub project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the 1990-1993 Rural Roads Program and its main objective 
is to assist in the achievement of Colombia's social and economic goals of expanding 
markets and reducing poverty in rural areas. In this context, the specific objectives 
of the Project are: (i) help define, develop, organize and strengthen management of 
rural roads at national, regional and local levels; (ii) assist in the implementation 
of key rural road sector policies, including those related to decentralization of 
decision-making, maintenance management, investment programming, coordination and 
resource mobilization; (iii) to consolidate the Borrower's institutional-building 
efforts; and (iv) to support the financing of a balanced rural road investment and 
maintenance program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Execution of Sub-projects including, inter alia:
Page  10
1.
construction of about 950 kilometers of roads and 2 kilometers of canals;
 
2.
improvement, including the construction of 1,100 meters of bridges and drainage 
structures, of about 1,650 kilometers of roads;
3.
periodic maintenance, including resurfacing, of about 4,350 kilometers of roads;
 
4.
routine maintenance, including pothole patching and drainage clearing, of about 
26,000 kilometers of roads; and
5.
emergency maintenance to ensure transit ability of mainly incomplete roads.
 
Part B:
Rehabilitation of the Borrower's road maintenance equipment fleet, including 
acquisition and utilization of a stock of fast consuming spare parts.
Part C:
Provision of technical assistance services for engineering designs and 
supervision of civil works, studies on road management, funding strategies, 
institutional and technical development.
Part D:
A training program for the Borrower's and Administrative Units' staff in road 
management.
Part E:
A study of the Borrower's financing structure, sources and requirements to fully 
finance the
construction, improvement and maintenance of rural roads in Colombia.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1995
through May 15, 2006
2,290,000
 
On November 15, 2006
2,330,000
 
Page  11
_________________
*
The figures  in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but
0.88
not more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 ant 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent but 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent and contracts for goods estimated to cost more than 
$25,000 equivalent but less than $100,000, may be procured on the basis of competitive 
Page  12
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $25,000 per contract or less, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three qualified contractors or suppliers, as the case may be, eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Proprietary items i.e. spare parts or accessories for goods purchased for the 
Project which are produced only by the original manufacturer of the goods and 
equipment rehabilitation services may be procured through direct contracting with 
qualified suppliers, previously accepted on a case by case basis by the Bank.
Part D:
Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines, in respect of 
procurement of goods, works and services made:
1.
pursuant to Part A of this Schedule:
 
(a)
no requirement of local agents for foreign bidders shall be made.
 
(b)
no prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required;
 
(c)
no provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied;
 
(d)
bids of goods shall be evaluated on a C.I.F. basis;
 
(e)
freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for purposes of 
bid evaluation; and 
2.
pursuant to Part A or Part C of this Schedule:
 
(a)
awards  shall be made to the bid with the lowest evaluated cost; and
 
(b)
when geographically and technically practical, contracts for periodic 
maintenance and improvement of roads shall combine roads in different areas so as to 
promote competitiveness in the construction industry, economies of scale and efficient 
scheduling of works.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
l.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 5.01 (c)
(ii) of this Agreement.
Page  13
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix l 
to the Guidelines.
Section  II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project,  the  
Borrower  shall  employ consultants  whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines).
2.
Hiring of individual consultants under contract estimated to cost $20,000 
equivalent or less shall be made directly by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions 
of Part V of the Consultant Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule l to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to five 
million dollars to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to 
have been made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  14
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to 
the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
