Document of
The World Bank                        FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3530-CY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$16.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 21, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS'/
Currency Unit      =     Cypriot Pound (C£)
CE 1.00            =     US$2.10
US$1.00            =     C£ 0.48
ABBREVIAIIONS
ARI      -   Agricultural Research Institute
CCB      -   Cooperative Central Bank
DA       -   Department of Agriculture
LC       -   Loan Commissioners
MANR     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Mm3      -   Million Cubic Heters
PAC      -   Project Advisory Committee
PPCC     -   Project Policy Coordinating Committee
WDD      -   Water Development Department
Government of Cyprus Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
1/ As of November 1982



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUb
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECI
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Cyprus
Amount:         US$16.0 million
Terms:          Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The project would transform an area in one of the least
developed regions of Cyprus comprising about 2,000 hectares
predominantly dependent on rainfall for agriculture into a
permanently irrigated area producing high-quality, high-value
horticultural crops mostly for export. The project would also
help to resolve the area's underemployment problem by creating
stable and remunerative employment opportunities for several
hundred farm families. The project components include: (a)
a dam and appurtenant structures; (b) a water conveyance
system consisting of about 16.6 km. of pipeline, and a
diversion structure at the Khrysokhou River; (c) an
irrigation system comprising a network of underground pipes,
valves, hydrants and meters; id)  on-farm systems including
pipelines, land smoothing, and vegetable and orchard planting
for which credit will be provided by the Government; (e)
groundwater development to supplement surface water during dry
years; and (f) provisions for project management and
administration, buildings and transport facilities. The
project would directly benefit about 640 families in the
project area by generating additional on-farm and off-farm
part-time employment, thereby increasing farm incomes. The
absence of improvement in existing export marketing systems
and procedures and delay in deriving a long-term fruit and
vegetable export strategy could be risks. However,these are
being addressed under the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project
(Loan 1988-CY) which is well underway and additional measures
included in the project will further minimize tbe risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost:
Component                       Local   Foreign    Total
------(UST Million)-----
Evretou Dam                                  6.8       9.8       16.6
Water Conveyance System                      1.8       2.9        4.7
Irrigation Network                           1.6       3.2        4.8
Groundwater Development                      0.2       0.4        0.6
On-farm Works                                3.0       :3.5       6.5
Project Management: and Administration       2.1       1.1        3.2
Subtotal                                 15.5      20.9      36.4
Physical Contingencies                       1.3       1.9        3.2
Price Contingencies                          2.8      _3.8        6.6
Total 1/                                 19.6      26.6      46.2
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
-----(U FMillion)-----
Bank                                         -        16.0       16.0
Government                                  16.5      10.6       27.1
Beneficiaries                                3.1       -          3.1
Total                                    19.6      26.6      46.2
1/ Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.



- iii. -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY   FY84    FY85   FY86   FY67   FY88   FY89
---------------------(US; Million)----------------
Annual                           3.u    5.0    5.0    1.5    1.0    0.5
Cumulative                       3.0    8.0   13.0   14.5   15.5   16.0
Economic Rate of Return: 14 percent
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4351-GY, dated April 18, 1983
Map: No. IBRD 16930 - Khrysokhou Irrigation Project






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR A KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
l.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Cyprus for the equivalent of US$16.0 million to help
finance a portion of the foreign exchange costs of an irrigaton project in the
Khrysokhou area. The loan would be repaid over fifteen years including three
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The balance of the
foreign exchange costs would be covered by the Government of Cyprus.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report on Cyprus (No. 4069-CY) was circulated to
the Executive Directors in January 1983. The report's findings are reflected
in this Part. Although Bank economic missions to Cyprus have visited all
economically important areas in that country and had discussions with the
Government as well as the Turkish Cypriot authorities, it has not been
possible to assess fully the economic situation and prospects of the whole
island, given the extremely limited economic data base for northern Cyprus,
which is under Turkish Cypriot control. Hence the analysis provided in this
and other Parts of this Report relates only to the Government-controlled part
in southern Cyprus. The Basic Country Data is provided in Annex 1.
General Background
3.       The Cyprus economy grew at over 7 percent per annum between 1960 and
1973, despite tension between the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot
communities. The major contributing factors were a competent public
administration, dynamic entrepreneurs, a high rate of investment especially in
the private sector, a rapid increase in agricultural exports contributing to
strong overall balance of payments, and flexible fiscal and monetary policies
that helped to stimulate growth while maintaining domestic price stability.
4.       The 1974 events brought a sudden, although temporary, end to this
long period of economic growth. Since then, the country has de facto been
divided into two parts by a cease-fire line, with decreasing movement of
people and goods between them. The southern part under the Government's
control accounts for 64 percent of the area of the island and over 77 percent
of total population. In the northern part under Turkish Cypriots' control, 23
percent of the total population live on 36 percent of the land area. About
one-third of the total population was displaced by the 1974 events, with
nearly 180,000 Greek Cypriots moving south, and approximately 45,000 Turkish
Cypriots moving north. Most of the displaced population has now been
resettled. UN-sponsored intercommunal talks to find a possible political
solution have been held intermittently since 1978, but prospects for agreeing
on a permanent solution remain uncertain.



- 2 -
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
5.        With the displacement of population and severance of sectoral
linkages in mid-1974, the economy was severely depressed; the unemployment
rate jumped to nearly 25 percent of the labor force, and exports and imports
fell by about 55 percent in the second half of 1974,  The drop in export
earnings reflected the loss from the non-exploitation of about one-half of
Cyprus' cultivated land area (which produced over 50 percent of its
agricultural exports) and the non-utilization of about two-thirds of the
island's tourist i-acilities.
6.        Government policy to reactivate the economy in the area under its
control proved highly successful. The economy recovered rapidly, with GDP (in
real terms) growing annually by an average of 11.7 percent between 1975 and
1981.  Since 1979, the growth rate has slowed down and was about 2.1 percent
in 1981, as the economy reached full capacity and world recession adversely
affected some export markets. In parallel, unemployment decreased from over
16 percent in 1975 to about 2 percent in 1980 and 3 percent in 1982. Despite
rapid growth, the rate of inflation remained modest. Consumer prices rose
7.5 percent in 1978 and 13 percent in 1980, but slowed to 9 percent in 1982.
7.        The Government followed an expansionary fiscal policy to reactivate
the economy after 1974. This policy continued, however, even after near-full
employment was reached in 1978. Overall budgetary deficits, averaging about
7.3 percent of GDP during 1979-82, have been financed mainly by grants and
external borrowing, and by some borrowing from the Central Bank. The
Government believes that it may be able to slow down expenditures, despite the
need to continue some refugee assistance and to complete ongoing investment
projects.  However, its attempts to reduce subsidies for grain and vine
products are meeting strong resistance in Parliament. Similarly, its proposal
to permit an increase in interest rates above the 9 percent ceiling has not
yet been accepted by Parliament. In the circumstances, the Government has
attempted to increase revenues by changing the tax system and adopting other
fiscal measures to suit the changed economic conditions; this has already
significantly improved the revenue-GDP ratio, from about 20 percent in 1979 to
over 23 percent in 1982.
8.        In an effort to restrain domestic price increases, the Central Bank
initially took limited measures to restrict new loans to importers and
distributors and reduce loans by hire-purchase finance companies. But since
late 1979, more comprehensive measures have been taken to reduce bank
liquidity and restrain credit expansion. The effectiveness of monetary
policy, however, remains hampered by the ceiling set on interest rates.
9.        The changes in the tax system and fiscal measures and the restraints
put on credit expansion have had a deflationary impact on the economy.
Consumer and investment demands have softened, resulting in a continuous
decline in the inflation rate since 1981. This was accompanied by a small
rise in unemployment, from 2 percent in 1980 to about 3 percent in 1982, as
already mentioned.



- 3 -
10.      Stimulated by expanding local demand for consumer and investment
goods, imports increased rapidly until early 1980. The increases in the
current account balance of payrnents deficit, however, were adequately covered
by the rapidly rising external capital inflows. During 1981-82, as overall
growth decelerated, import growth slowed down while exports, especially of
services, cc tinued to grow at a relatively higher rate, resulting in an
improvement in the balance of payments. Foreign exchange reserves increased,
to five months of imports at the end of 1982. Recent trends show growth of
exports as well as of revenue from tourism can be expected to continue. As a
result, the short-term outlook for balance of payments is expected to remain
healthy.
II.      The recent favorable developments, however, bave been accompaniea by
two trends that could have serious adverse effects in the longer-term: the
continued negative public savings and declining private investment in
manufacturing since 1979. As discussed in para. 7, the negative public
savings have been the result of the post-1974 expansionary programs to
reactivate the economy; but the budget remained expansionary even after the
economy reached a high level of employment. The decline in manufacturing
investment resulted from several factors, including rapidly rising labor
costs, inadequate institutions to promote investment in new products requiring
modern technologies and organization, and relatively lower profitability in
manufacturing compared to that in tourism and real estate. Recently, however,
labor cost increases have moderated, and a aeclining trend is projected.
Medium-Term Prospects
12.      The Government has launched the Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan
(1982-1986) for the area under its control. The Plan calls for a GDP growtb
rate of about 4.0 percent per year, based on a continuing shift in development
strategy toward medium-scale, higher technology, relatively more
capital-intensive investments; consolidation of small factories into larger
units, to realize economies of scale; and export and tourism as the major
engines of growth. In addition, increased emphasis is put on the promotion of
international services, e.g. off-shore banking, consultancy and professional
services, to cater to Middle Eastern and North African countries.
13.      The Fourth Plan strategy of promoting investment in and export of
higher quality products and services is appropriate. The Plan's target of a 4
percent GDP growth is within the country's potential and the investment
program is sound. Achievement of the target, however, depends on aaequate
policies to generate some public savings and to reverse the declining trend in
private manufacturing investment.
14.      Considerable efforts have been made to increase governmnent revenues,
which have risen significantly.  To maintain this momentum, government actions
are needed to (i) close tax loopholes, (ii) strengthen tax auministration and
auditing procedure, (iii) raise penalties for tax evasion, and (iv) introduce
a system of value-added taxation. These ougbt to be complemented by a
slow-down in the growth of current expenditures, including civil servants'
salaries and subsidies for grain production and imported animal teed. The
projected declining trend in wage increases is a favorable factor for private
manufacturing investment. To promote such investiment Cyprus needs also to:



systematically gather and disseminate technological informatiot;  establish
contacts with foreign firms and promote joint ventures; explore the
availability of licenses, technical Know-how agreements ana marketin6
arrangements; arrange projects for finance and implementation; provide
extension services'; and take measures to slow down construction of new
hotels, except for the very top class.
15.      Cyprus will continue to need an increasing inflow of foreign capital
to help finance the necessary restructuring of its economy. Access to
long-term concessionary bilateral and multilateral support is expectea to
become increasingly limited.  Consequently, despite some continuing Greek,
German, UK and Council of Europe assistance, most future public external
borrowing to cover the projected current account defijcits will have to come
from commercial sources, either in the form of export or suppliers' crenlt, or
as commercial bank loans. Considering the continuing political uncertainties,
Cyprus' recent experience in mobilizing external resources has beeni
encouraging. It successfully raised Eurodollar borrowings in late 1977 of $30
million, followed by loans of $40 million in July 1978, $lU million in
November 1978, $48 million in July 1980, $85 million in September 1981 and $7U
million in July 1982. The country has also begun to attract significant
export and suppliers' credits. These forms of external borrowing are
indicative of the probable future trend.
16.      The Bank's efforts to date have been directed towards encouraging
Cyprus not only to diversify its sources of official aid, but also to use Bank
projects as catalysts to attract other external support, including cofinancing
with commercial banks.  Coimercial bank cofinancing was arranged in 1980 in
connection with the Third Cyprus Development Bank Project (Loan 1744-CY);
substantial suppliers' credit and a Euro-currency loan for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Loan 1873-CY) in 1980; a loan from the
Kuwait Fund for the Third Highway Project (Loan 2128-CJY) in 1982; ano a loan
from the European Investment Bank for the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Loan
1658-CY) in 1982.
17.      Cyprus' external debt has so far remained low, because of the past
policy of financing development from internal resources and the availability
of substantial levels of foreign grant aid from Greece and the Unitec Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), mainly for refugee assistance (ranging
from $36 to $59 million per year since 1974). Total long-term public aebt
outstanding and disbursed was $497.3 million as of Dec-ember 31, 1981.  Public
debt service was about 7.6 percent of goods ana non-factor services in 1981.
However, given the increasing reliance on cotamercial financing, debt service
is projected to increase to about 12 percent of exports of goods and nontactor
services by 1985.  The Bank's share of debt outstanding and disbursed declined
from 51 percent in 1975 to about 12 percent at the end of 1981, while its
share in debt service declined from 47 percent in 1975 to about 15 percent in
1981. Thus the Bank's exposure, once quite high, has now declined to a more
normal level and is expected to continue to decline further. Given this
background and the GDvernment's record of economic management, the country
continues to be creditworthy for Bank lending.



- 5 t-
PART 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CYPRUS
18,      Bank lending to Cyprus began in 1963.  As of March 31, 1983, nineteen
loans totalling $162.2 million (net of cancellations) were made; of this,
about $123.4 million was held by the Bank. The main areas of concentration
have been infrastructure (power, sewerage, highways and ports), industry
through the Cyprus Development Bank, agrizulture and water resource
development.  Details of Bank loans to Cyprus as of March 31, 1983 are given
in Annex II.
19.      The events of 1974 had a substantial impact on some of the ongoing
Bank-financed projects, as well as on planned operations. In particular, the
execution of the following projects was affected: (i) the sewerage project in
Famagusta, which lay entirely in the area controlled by the Turkish Cypriots;
and (ii) the construction of the Nicosia-Morphou highway, the alignment of
which coincided with the cease-fire line. Even though the Famagusta Sewerage
Project was 90 percent complete when construction was interrupted, it could
not be commissioned in the absence of a political settlement, and the
undisbursed balance of the loan was cancelled. In the case of the
Nicosia-Morphou highway, construction of which was suspended, and remains so,
after only one month of work, the unutilized balance of about $3.6 million was
transferred to the Second Highway Project. The Nicosia Sewerage Project,
which straddled the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot areas of Nicosia, was
also incomaplete. However, as a result of the initiative of the UNDP and the
Bank, Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot cooperation on this matter was
engendered and a formal agreement to complete the project reached in September
1978; thereafter, based on those arrangements, and continuing cooperation
displayed by both sides in their implementation, the project has been
completed in 1980 and is now benefiting both communities. As regards planned
operations, a number of projects under study, or contemplated, before 1974,
which were intended to benefit directly both communities, could not be pursued
because of the de facto division of the island. The Bank, together with UNDP,
will continue to explore areas where cooperation appears possible, although
substantial progress may have to await a political settlement.
20.      Disbursement performance with regard to Bank operations in Cyprus is
generally satisfactory and compares favorably with experience elsewhere. The
only loans on which disbursements had been significantly slower than
anticipated relate to the Second Highway Project (Loan 1344-CY) and the
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Water Resources Development Project (Loan 1658-CY).
This is primarily related to difficulties faced by the contractor in the
former case, and to delays in the appointment of consultants in the latter
case. The problems related to the Second Highway Maintenance Project have
been resolved and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. In the case of
the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project, dam construction work will start shortly
and project implementation is expected to proceed smoothly thereafter.
21.      The Bank continues to support activities leading to higher
productivity and exports and providing essential infrastructure justifiable in
the context of the whole island. Within this overall context, Bank lending



- 6 -
has made a substantial contribution towards assisting Cyprus to recover from
the 1974 events, especially in acting as a catalyst to mobilize external
sources of long-term financing.  The Government recognizes that given the
relatively high per capita income in Cyprus, Bank lena-ing has continued so far
because of the special circumstances prevailing in the country, and can be
expected to t. er off gradually in the mecium-term.  In the circumstances,
projects being developed during this period include those representing
innovation for the country, such as a renewable energy production/energy
conservation project and a project for integrating and transferring scarce
water resources between different basins in the country. Meanwhile,
discussions with the Government on Cyprus' graduation from Bank lending have
been initiated, and a graduation paper is being prepared.
22.       IFC's first investment in Cyprus was in a cement company in 1972.
The company has since become a leader in the country's successful export
drive. IFC has also invested in an asbestos cement pipe plant, a tourist
hotel, and in the Cyprus Investment and Securities Corporation, and is
currently exploring opportunities for further investment in the island. As of
March 31, 1983, gross commitments totalled $6.0 million, of which $2.9 million
are still held by IFC.  Details of IFC investments in Cyprus are given in
Annex II.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND WATEk DEVELOPMENT
Agriculture in the Economy
23.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector of the economy.  In
1981, it contributed 11 percent of GDP, provided 25 percent of total
employment, and directly and indirectly accounted for about 25 percent of
commodity exports. Its relative importance has, however, declined since 1975
reflecting the growing importance of the tourist industry and the
manufacturing sector. This is attributable in large part to the events of
1974 as a consequence of which thousands of farm families were displaced and
about 80 percent of the citrus plantations, 65 percent of dryland cereal
growing areas, 45 percent of olive and 30 percent of carob trees fell outside
Government control.
24.       Agriculture, nevertheless, continued to play a major role in the
economy and the Government's agricultural policies under its first three
Emergency Economic Action Plans, consisting primarily of completion of
on-going agriculture projects and expansion of land under irrigation, have met
with great success.  Within an overall framework of actions to maximize
production, of improving income levels and of balancing regional growth, the
sector objectives of the Fourth Emergency Economic action Plan (FEEAP),
1982-86, are:  (i)  to expand irrigation; (ii)  to modernize the sector;
(iii) to improve the marketing system; and (iv) to rediuce price intervention
and subsidies.
25.       To meet these objectives, the FEEAP has included steps:  to address
the major constraint of Cypriot agriculture, namely, availability of
irrigation water supplies; to continue efforts in halting the extreme



fragmentation of land successfully being carried out through the Government's
land consolidation program; and to further the Government's strategy of
promoting agricultural exports in view of the constraints imposed by a small
domestic market and the country's comparative advantage in the export of
early-season, high-value, horticultural products to markets in Europe and the
Middle East. At the same time, the Plan recognizes the need to control the
growth of agricultural price controls and subsidies which at a level
corresponding to 28 percent of agricultural GDP by 1981 are presenting a beavy
burden on the nation's budgetary resources and distorting the real value of
agricultural imports (such as food grains and livestock feed) and of
irrigation water.
26.      Bank's Role.  The Bank has directed its lending to agriculture,
primarily to the development of water resources, the sector's most limiting
physical factor. It has promoted employment and assisted improvement in labor
productivity. A more equal distribution of economic growth among sectors has
also been an objective. Bank operations have served as a catalyst to attract
development financing from otber sources.
27.      The Paphos Irrigation Project, started in 1974 and completed in 1982,
provides essential irrigation infrastructure mainly for export production and
assists in financing on-farm investments. The ongoing Pitsilia Integrated
Rural Development Project, started in early 1977, emphasizes productive and
social infrastructure investments directed towards the poorest parts of
Government-controlled Cyprus. The Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project, started in
1979, will develop water resources for irrigation and reduce the shortages of
potable water in the cities of Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca. The latest
agriculture project undertaken so far, the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project
of 1981, complements previous Bank investments in the sector by initiating a
set of institutional and organizational changes in the fruit and vegetable
export trade, improving the utilization of scarce water resources, creating
further employment opportunities and improving productivity. The Bank is
likewise assisting in the preparation of the Southern Conveyor Project, a
project designed to transfer surplus water from the southwest to the southeast
areas which suffer from irrigation water shortages, part of which is
threatened by sea water intrusion in its aquifers, as well as to remove the
critical shortages in urban water supplies.
Water Resources and Irrigation Development
.
28.      Water resources in Cyprus derive primarily from rainfall which occurs
mostly between November and March and averages about 4,500 Mm3 per annum.
£          Surface evaporation accounts for about 3,500 Mm3 per annum ana of the
remaining usable water supply, an estimated 400 Hm3 enters the groundwater
and 600 Mm3 runs off as surface water. Most groundwater resources have
already been developed and many aquifers overpumped. As prospects of further
development of minor aquifers is limited and there is little scope for
artificial recharge, surface water is assuming increasing importance as the
predominant source of water for development. The total storage capacity of
reservoirs in Cyprus, mostly for irrigation, including the recently completed
Asprokremmos Dam near Papbos, is 116 Mm3. The Vasilikos-Pendaskinos
Project, which is presently under implementation, would add about 32 Mm3 of
storage capacity. The proposed Khrysokhou Irrigation Project would provide



-8-
23 Mm3 of storage capacity at the Evretou Dam to serve 2,000 hectares of
irrigation area.  Because of the high unit cost of investment in irrigation,
the FEEAP allocates nearly two-thirds of the total sector investment budget of
about $315 million to water development programs. The development of water
resources in a coordinated and integrated manner has been of primary
importance to the Government which, with UNDP assistance, has b( n carrying
out detailed water resources studies since the early 1960s.
29.      Horticultural Exports.  In recent years, export prices of most
horticultural commodities, citrus, grapes and potatoes, rose only moderately
in current terms and stagnated in real value; only unit export values of
vegetables registered a substantial increase (20 percent) in real terms.
Significant increases in future sector export earnings will mainly depend on
Cyprus' ability to shift exports to high-value vegetables and exotic fruits
(e.g., avocados and kiwis) and to increase exportable volumes of traditional
items such as potatoes, citrus fruit and table grapes. Such changes require
continued investment in water development projects, on--farm irrigation systems
and commensurate attention to applied research and extension coupled wLth
effective export marketing mechanisms. The proposed project provides further
assistance to the Government in those directions and complements efforts
already underway in previous Bank-assisted projects in the sector.
Institutional Framework
30.      The institutions serving the sector are efficient, experienced and
responsive to the demands placed on them and, having had ample experience with
Bank-assisted projects, are fully comapetent to implement the proposed
project. The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANk) is the main
public institution dealing with agriculture in Cyprus. The MANR has six
well-staffed functional departments, namely, Agriculture, Water Development,
Geological Survey, Meteorology, the Land Consolidation Authority, and the
Agricultural Research Institute. The Water Development Department (WDD) of
the MANR is the principal department responsible for planning, design and
execution of government water projects although the overall responsibility for
determining water policy rests with the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of
Interior has legal control over national water resources and also administers
water laws. At the district level the overall responsibility for management
of water projects, whether for irrigation or domestic supply, lies with a
District Officer who reports to the Ministry of Interior. Each government
irrigation project is administered and managed by a Water Commission composed
of the District Officer, a representative of the WDD and members elected from
the project beneficiaries.
31.      The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) is the main agency for
agricultural research./  The ARI has several experimentaL stations distributed
in the country according to major agricultural zones.  'wo of these stations
are located at Akhelica in the Paphos district in the southwest part of the
country and about 40 km. from the project area. Research programs undertaken
at ARI and the Akhelia research stations include introduction of new fruit
crops with commercial potential such as passion fruit, kiwi, mango and guava.
Experimentation with energy and water saving techniques constitutes an
integral part of the country's research program, particularly with production
of off-season vegetables under controlled environmental conditions.



- 9 -
32.      The MANR has an extensive nationwide agriculture extension network
under the overall responsibility of the Department of Agriculture (DA). In
addition, the MANR provides farmer training at various district training
centers. Courses include crop production, plant protection and irrigation,
application of energy and water saving techniques, as well as farm
mechanization, use and maintenance of farm machinery.
33.      Agricultural Credit.  Cyprus has a comprehensive system for
channelling financial resources into agriculture. Institutional credit for
agriculture is mainly provided by the Government througb the Loan
Commissioners (LC) and the cooperative credit system, the latter mostly
consisting of village-based Cooperative Credit Societies (CUS) and the
Cooperative Central Bank (CCB). The LC provides miiediumr- and long-term credit
and is a Government body composed of the Minister of Finance (Chairman) and
five members including the Director General of the MANk and two farmers'
representatives. The CCS provide mainly sbort-term credit requirements and
are voluntary associations with at least 12 members for the primary purpose of
providing financial assistance to their members. The CCB is basically an apex
financing bank for its shareholders which are marketing, supply and credit
cooperatives. Its capitalization excludes government funding and CUB's
lending comes mostly from deposits, as well as LC funds for specific
Government-sponsored programs.
The Project Area
34.      The Kbrysokhou project area is located in the northwestern part of
Cyprus around the town of Polis. The irrigation service boundaries encompass
2,000 hectares net area in the Khrysokhou River valley and the coastal plain
which is bordered by the Khrysokbou Bay on the north. The Evretou Dam, to be
constructed on the Stavros tis Psokas River, is located about 2 km. upstream
from its confluence with the Khrysokhou River, which is about 5 km. inland
from the estuary. The project area has a typical lviediterranean climate with
hot, dry summers and mild winters. The climatic conditions are particularly
favorable for growing early varieties of vegetables, lemons, table grapes and
deciduous fruits. The irrigation service area is located on the coastal plain
and along the river valley rising gently from the sea to altitudes of up to
100 meters. Soil surveys and land suitability classification studies were
carried out by the DA on the project area. Major soil types are either
alluvial or colluvial, and the classification suitability for irrigation is
based on a local system that is generally in line with that of the United
States Bureau of Reclamation. According to this classification, about 95
percent of the soils in the project area is considered suitable for
d       irrigation.  Except where terraces have to be made on the steep slopes on a
small section of the area, only a little leveling or smoothing of farn  lands
would be required for the proposed sprinkler and drip irrigation
applications. The soils in general are favorable for the production of almost
all fruits and vegetables.
35.      Agricultural land within the 2,000 hectares project area is almost
entirely privately owned. The average plot size is about 0.7 hectares with 50
percent of the farmers having four or more plots. About 230 hectares are



- 10 -
presently under irrigation from wells and boreholes and planted to citrus,
vegetables, deciduous fruits, table grapes and bananas. The remaining area is
rainfed and plantecd mainly to cereals. Power is available to all villages aa
domestic water supply is piped to all major villages. Telegraph, telephone
and postal services are likewise available at the town of Polis situated in
the middle of the project area.
36.      The area benefits from. the proximity of a number of agriculture
supporting services. Both the DA and the WDD have suboffices in the town of
Polis. Tbe project area is part of the Paphos agricultural extension district
and presently has one agricultural extension office.  Farmer training is
easily accessible at the Paphos Training Cencer, and a branch office of thne
Cooperative Central Bank is also located in that city.
PART IV - IHE PROJECIr
Project History
37.      Preparation of the project was  nitniated in April 1979 with UNDP's
financial assistance and executed jointly by the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) and the Water Development Department (WDD). The Bank
expressed special irnterest in the project since its inception. The project
feasibility study was prepared in 1981 with FA0/GP assistance. Consultants
engaged by the Government to undertake engineering designs and preparation of
tender documents based on final design completed their work in November 1986.
The project was then appraised in November-Deceraber 1982 and negotiations were
held in Washington from April 4 - 8, 1983 with a Government Delegation led by
Dr. Andreas Papasolomontos, Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR)o A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report,
Khrysokhou Irrigation Project" (No. 4351-GY), dated April 18, 1983 is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
loan and the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III.  A map of the            :, -ea is attached.
Project Objectives
38.      The proposed project is in line with the Government's agricultural
development policy objectives of optimizing the use of available water
resources, intensifying agricultural production, and increasing agricultural
exports and foreign exchange earnings. Tocated in the northwestern part of
the island, the project would transform an area of about 2,000 hectares
predominantly dependent on rainfall for agriculture inco a permanently
irrigated area producing high-quality, high-value horticultural crops for
export and domestic consumption.  The project area is located in one of tne
least developed regions of the island where employment opportunities are
limited. The project: would help resolve the area's underemployment problem by
creating stable and remunerative employment opportunities, thereby also
increasing beneficiaries' incomes.



- II -
Project Description
39.      The project is designed to store surface water, supplement this with
groundwater to meet shortages during dry years, and divert and deliver che
available supplies of water for irrigation on demand. Irrigation water demano
has been est mated to be 5,120 m3 per hectare on an average annual oasis.
To meet this demand, the project will integrate the main sources of water
supply from the Evretou Reservoir with an average annual yield of 13.0 IMk3,
a diversion from the Upper Khrysokhou River of up to 2.5 Mm3 per year, and
thirteen tubewells (including five existing ones) with an average yield of
2 Mm3. The project would comprise the following components;
A. Irrigation
(i) Evretou Dam: The aam will generate an average annual flow
volume of 13.0 Mm3 and have a live storage capacity ot
23 Mm3. The designs of the dam and the appurtenant structures
have been reviewed by a panel of experts who have found the
geological conditions at the dam site safe and the materials for
construction to be accessible and in adequate supply. The final
designs and tender documents for the dam have already been
prepared by consultants.
(ii) Conveyor System: The water conveyance system consists of about
16.6 km. of pipeline. All pipelines will be underground and
will deliver water to three storage ponds and two break pressure
tanks for distribution to the irrigation area. In addition, a
diversion structure would be provided to divert up to 2.5 Mm3
annually from the Upper Khrysokhou River through a 7.5 km.
pipeline to the main conveyor for supplementing irrigation
supplies from the Evretou Reservoir. The final designs and
tender documents for the conveyor system have already been
prepared by the Government.
(iii) Irrigation Distribution System: This comprises a network of
underground pipes and includes necessary valves, bydrants and
meters. Adequate provision has also been made in the project
for construction of farm roads.
r                (iv)  On-Farm Systems:  These include pipelines for water conveyance
within the farm, installation of mini sprinklers ana arip
irrigation, land smoothing and vegetable and orchard planting.
Credit will be provided to the farmers by the Government througb
the Loan Commissioners (LC) for this project component (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05 (a)). Standard designs for on-farm
irrigation works have been prepared by the Government. Detailed
designs for each farm will be prepared under the guidance of the
Deputy Project Manager for Agriculture.
(v) Groundwater Development: In addition to the existing five
tubewells in the Khrysokhou aquifer, eight more will be
installed under the project for a total annual yield of about
2 Mm3 to meet shortages of surface water for irrigation during
dry years.



- 12 -
B. Management: and Administration
(i)  Staffing:  The project management staff would consist of a
Project Manager, a Deputy Project Manager for Engineering, and a
Deputy Manager for Agriculture. In addition, appropriate and
adequate support staff available from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) would be appointed to
the project as required.
(ii)  Monitoring and Evaluation Unit:  A Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit for all irrigation projects is being established and
attached to MANR's headquarters. Funds for such a unit have
been included in the Government's 1983 budget, and the unit
would consist of an Engineer, Agriculturist and Agricultural
Economist. This unit will also be responsible for monitoring
and evaluation of the Khrysokhou Irrigation Project.
(iii)  Buildings and Equipment:  An existing Government building would
be refurbished for use as the project office and the
contractors' field office would be retained even after
completion of the dam for use by operation and maintenance
staff. The project would also include provision of vehicles for
use by the project staff.
Project Costs and Financing
40.       The total project cost exclusive of taxes and duties from which goods
and services destined for public projects are exempt is estimated at $46.2
million in April 1983 prices. Physical contingencies are estimated at $3.2
million and price contingencies at $6.6 million. Of the total cost, $26.6
million, or about 58 percent, is in foreign exchange. Unit costs were based
on detailed cost analyses and on similar works recently tendered in Cyprus.
Price contingencies for both local and foreign components wer- computed by
applying annual rates of 7.5 percent for 1984 and 6.0 percen,L ch for 1985,
1986 and 1987. A factor of 10-15 percent was used to calculate physical
contingencies for various civil works components depending upon the level of
design. Consultants services for the construction supervision of Evretou Dam
will total 84 man-months at a cost of about $8,000 per man-month inclusive of
salaries, fees, overhead, international travel and subsistence.
41.       The proposed Bank loan of $16.0 million equivalent will finance 60
percent of foreign exchange costs or 35 percent of the total costs of the
project.  The Government of Cyprus will contribute $27.1 million equivalent or
59 percent of the l:otal project costs including the remaining 40 percent
foreign exchange costs. The project beneficiaries will contribute the
remaining (6 percent) balance of the project costs arnounting to about $3.1
million.
Project Implementation
42.       The project is expected to be implemented over a five-year period
starting in August 1983 and ending July 1988.  Construction of the Evretou



- 13 -
Dam, which is the major project component, is expected to be completed by the
end of 1986. However, the dam would be completed by September 1985 to a level
which would permit the runoff during the rainy season (September 1985 - March
1986) to be impounded in the reservoir and used for irrigation in 1986. In
order to meet that objective, the Government has initiated prequalification of
contractors for the construction of the dam on which work is scheduled to
0          start in January 1984.  The final phase of project implementation would
comprise completion of on-farm works installations and construction of
groundwater schemes.
43.       The project will be implemented primarily by WDD and will be under
the direct supervision of a Project Manager (who will report directly to the
Director of WDD) assisted by two deputies, one responsible for technical
matters and civil works and the other for agricultural aspects of the
project. Appointment of all three is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01). In addition, it was agreed during negotiations that
competent staff in adequate number will be employed to assist the Project
Manager and his deputies to implement the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04). Groundwater development will be carried out by WDD with the assistance
of the Geological Survey Department. A system of coordinating and advisory
committees, similar to that which is functioning effectively under previous
Bank-assisted irrigation projects, will be established for the project by
September 30, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). This includes: (a) a
high-level Project Policy and Coordination Committee (PPAC) chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture with membership including the Directors General of the
MANR, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and
representatives of the Planning Bureau and the Commission of Cooperatives;
(b) a Water Commission at the district level composed of the District
Officer, a representative of WDD and members elected from the project
beneficiaries which will have overall responsibility for management and
administration of the project; and (c) a Project Advisory Committee (PAC)
chaired by the Paphos District Officer and including the Project Manager, WDD
and Department of Agriculture (DA) District Officers, and two farmers'
representatives which will advise the Project Manager on local affairs and be
the focal point for beneficiaries to address their views on matters such as
operation and maintenance of completed works, water charges and cost recovery.
44.       The WDD has been responsible for the planning and design of the
project and would continue to be responsible for completion of designs,
preparation of tender documents, and construction management and supervision
during implementation stage. An engineering section comprising a design unit
and a construction unit will be established within the project.
45.       The British consulting firm of Sir William Halcrow and Partners in
association with the Cypriot firm of A. Parastitis has been appointed to
supervise construction of Evretou Dam. Terms and conditions of their
appointment were reviewed during negotiations and found acceptable. The
consultants will assist and advise the Government on bid evaluations and
contracts' awards actions and be responsible to the Project Manager for
construction supervision of all components of the dam. The administration of
contracts will be done by the Project Manager. The supervision of
construction will be done by the construction unit of the project. The Panel



- 14 -
of Experts, which was designated by the Government to review the plans and
designs and provide guidance during the construction of the dams for the
Vasilikos-Pendaskirnos Project (Loan 1658-CY), was also assigned to review the
designs of the Evretou Dam during preparation and on finalization. It was
confirmed during negotiations that the Government has appointed the same panel
for supervision of the Evretou Dam construction (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
46.      Credit.  T'he Government will provide medium--term credit through the              0
Loan Commissioners to the farmers for purchase of irrigation equipment, land
smoothing and establishment of orchards. As some of the farmers have adequate
means of their own, as ascertained by a recent survey, it has been assumed
that not more than 75 percent of these investments will be financed through
medium--term loans, the balance being met through equity financinig.  'The total
credit requirements of the project are estimated at $5.5 million and will be
supplied entirely from the Government's own resources. It has been assumed
that medium-term lending to project participants will follow existing
practices; i.e., loans for the above-mentioned purposes will be for eight
years at 7 percent interest, with one-year grace for the principal. All loans
will be secured by real estate mortgages. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it would make available from its own
resources for mediumrterm on-lending to project participants such suIms as
needed to assure their full development of production (Loan agreement, Section
3.05).
47.      Research and Extension.  Applied agricultural research programs in
the project area will be implemented under the responsibility of the
Agricultural Research Institute (ARl) and its stations in Paphos. close
cooperation between the ARI and the project's extension staff would be
maintained, and feedback from farmers on production probleins would be
monitored by project management. The present extension staff of one officer
and two agricultural assistants will be augmented by an additional officer,
one specialist in pLant protection and four agricultural assistants.  The new
staff would be selected from highly qualified personnel and would be in post
no later than January 1, 1986, i.e. three months before the expected
availability of irrigation water from the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06).
48.      Operation and Maintenance.  The project works including the cam,
diversion and conveyance structures, groundwater schemes and the irrigation
distribution systems would be operated and maintained by the Government
through the WDD. Operation and maintenance of on-farm irrigation
installations will be carried out by the farmers under the guidance of tne DA
of the MANR. An operation and maintenance section for the project will be
created within the WDD which will be responsible for operation ana maintenance
of all project works. This section will be headed by a qualified senior
engineer and will have an adequate number of engineers, technicians, and
supporting staff anei equipment to perform the job. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that by December 31, 1986 (the fourth year of project
implementation) the Government will have prepared detailed operation ana.
maintenance manuals for all project works and sent those for the Bank's



- 15 -
review and would have established the operation and maintenance section vested
with necessary executive, administrative and legal powers to perform its
functions (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03b).
Marketing
49.      Approximately 75 percent of expected overall incremental project
output is expected to be exported primarily to EEC markets and also to Eastern
European and Middle Eastern countries. A considerable number of fruit and
vegetable market studies have been made including some under the Fruit and
Vegetable Export Project (Loan 1988-CY), the findings of which were taken into
account in formulating the proposed project. On the basis of these, the main
emphasis is likely to be on export of early season vegetables and high-value
fruits such as avocadoes and table grapes. At full development, the project's
estimated incremental export volume will be about 20,000 tons of fruits and
10,000 tons of vegetables. Measured against present or projected imports into
the European and Middle Eastern markets, these quantities are very small.
Aside from this, exports are aimed mainly to satisfy early season demand in
these markets. Because of these factors, no market absorption problems are
expected to arise from the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.      The contracts for the construction of the Evretou Dam and appurtenant
works, the conveyance system (including diversion structure), and the
groundwater schemes would be awarded through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Materials for construction of the irrigation network would be procured
through ICB.  Vehicles and office equipment would be procured through limited
international tendering (LIT). Procurement through either ICB or LIT would be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Consultants
were selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines on Selection of Consultants
(para. 45). Contracts for the construction of the irrigation network and
refurbishing of the existing Government building for the project office would
be awarded by local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which have been found
satisfactory to the Bank. On-farm works would be financed by the Government
through provision of credit to the farmers. Materials for this component
would also be procured through LCB.
51.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a six-year period
against: (i) 85 percent of foreign expenditures for the Evretou Dam; (ii)
50 percent of foreign expenditures for the Upper Khrysokhou diversion
structure; (iii) 75 percent of foreign expenditures for the conveyance
system; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on materials and 100 percent
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for the irrigation network; (v) 40
percent of foreign expenditures for the groundwater development schemes;
(vi) 100 percent of foreign expenditures on purchase of vehicles and office
equipment; and (vii) 30 percent of total expenditures for the Project Mlanager
and consultant services.
Accounting and Auditing
52.      Project accounts will be kept by the WDD and other agencies involved
in project implementation. Such accounts will be audited annually by the



- 16 -
o_ 7'. seof the Auditor-General of Cyprus whose accounting and auditing
procedures were prcoven to be effective under other Bank-financeo projects.
Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than six nmonths after
the closing date of the Cypriot fiscal year.
Water Charges and Cost Recovery
DJ        nlo most irrigation areas of Cyprus, water charges are presently
C£ 0.020-0.025 ($0.04-0.05), after having been increased in 1982 by as much as
100 percent. As for the proposed project, in view of the expected development
over time of cash earnings in the various farm types, and especially in the
smallest one which is relevant to 37 percent of the beneficiaries, it is
recommended to limit water charges in the initial three years of operation of
the irrigation system constructed under the project starting in 198b to a
level slightly above the average cost of operation and maintenance presently
estimated at CE 0.025/m3 ($0.05/m3¾. Thereafter, these would be increased
gradually to recover the full operation and maintenance cost as well as a
significant portion of the capital cost by the fifth year of operation of the
system, and be maintained at this level of C£ 0.135/m3 ($0.28/m3) in real
terms.  As all farms will be equipped with water meters, this will be
technically feasible.  It is estimated that over 40 years about 53 percent of
the capital cost would be recovered. The overall water cost recovery,
including capital as well as operation and maintenance costs, would be about
60 percent. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) the
Government would undertake the appropriate studies to determine the proposed
water charges for the 1986 season and communicate these for the Bank's
commeni:s no later than December 31, 1985; and (ii) upon the availability of
irrigation water an irrigation water charge will be collected from project
beneficiaries and be reviewed annually during the month of March as decreec by
the Council of Ministers (Decree No. 232/82 of February 25, 198z) so as to
recover the full operation and maintenance costs and at least 50 percent of
the capital cost ror the purpose of irrigation in the project areas (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.05).
54.      Farmers are expected to require medium-term credit of about $5.5
million (corresponding to about 12 percent of total project cost) for the
purpose of financing 75 percent of the cost of establishing the on-farm
irrigat:ion works, smoothing their fields, and establishing orchards. Studies
indicate that farmers in all categories should be able to repay these loans
fully, including interest charges of 7 percent p.a., over a period of eight
years.
Benefits
55.      The project would develop the presently underutilized water resources
in a rather isolated and relatively underdeveloped part of the country,
alleviate present underemployment in the project area, increase participants'
incomes, and augment Cyprus' horticultural exports. It would generate
substantial increases in agricultural production by expanding from 230
hectares to 2,000 hectares the area brought under irrigation and modern
agriculture, and allow for a shift towards high-value crops for export. Due
to the country's experience in exporting to Europe and the Middle East as well
as its strategy of targeting early season demand, no difficulty is expected in



- 17 -
marketing the incremental production. The large, though slowly developing,
exportable surpluses will give rise to a substantial increase in the
activities of fruit and vegetable packing industries and in industrial
branches that supply the packing materials for these industries.
56.      Employment opportunities in the proposed project are  are presently
limited, and many farmers seek employment elsewhere to augment their present
farm incomes. Approximately 640 families or 3,500 persons are expected to
benefit directly from the project and will be fully employed therein. The
project is also expected to generate, at full development, additional on-farm
part-time employment corresponding to about 50,000 man-days/year and a similar
volume of part-time employment in packaging and associated activities. Net
average farm incomes at full development (year 2000) are expected to increase
from three to about ten times their present levels depending on farm size.
For instance in farms of 1.3 to 5.3 hectares, which represents the farm size
range owned by about 50 percent of farmers in the project area, net average
farm incomes are expected to be about six times their present levels (from
$2,800 to $18,000 per annum).
57.      The economic rate of return is estimated at about 14 percent.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that benefits can decrease by about 20 percent
or investment costs increase by about 25 percent before the rate of return
decreases to 10 percent.
Riskks
58.      The project has been well prepared and the availability of detailed
designs makes it possible to proceed early with project execution. There are
no unusual technical risks associated with the project, and those which are
normally associated with the project benefits, costs and development period
have been evaluated in the sensitivity analysis. The risk associated with the
project would be the absence of improvement in existing export marketing
systems and procedures and in devising a long-term fruit and vegetable export
strategy. These needs are being addressed by the Fruit and Vegetable Export
Project (Loan 1988-CY) through: (i) the reorganization and consolidation of
the fruit and vegetable trade in the form of a fruit and vegetable exporters'
association that would effectively represent the industry vis-a-vis government
and outside agencies; (ii) establishment of a Horticultural Export
Development Advisory and Coordinating Committee (HEDACC), representing
producers, exporters and government, that will be the delivery base for the
new marketing concepts; and (iii) formulation and implementation of an export
promotion strategy. This project is well underway and after some initial
delays is now proceeding satisfactorily.  Nevertheless, close supervision will
be maintained to ensure the success of that project and minimize the main risk
to the proposed project. In addition, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that a review of the fruit and vegetable marketing situation will
be undertaken by the Government and the Bank by December 31, 1985 following
wnich Government will implement recommendations resulting from the review as
agreed with the Bank to further ensure the adequate organization of marketing
channels for fruit and vegetable export (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are given in Section III of
Annex III. Appointment of the Project Manager and two Deputy Project Managers
is an additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
60.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan wouldi comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W., Clausen
President
by Errnest Stern
Attachments
April 21, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                      (Page 1 of 5)
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIG,HTED AVERAG}g
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. K1M.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              9.3                                   MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL       5.3                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                  EUROPE              MARXET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      ..           ..    3560.0                       2323.9                  10328.2
ENERGY CONSUMPT. .N PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      698.0       1230.8    1736.9                       2107.4                   7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   573.0         604.0      620.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6          40.8       46.3                        47.9                      78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          0.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            0.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2055..
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        61.9         65.3       66.8                        83.3                     138.6
PER SQ. 0l. AtRICULTURAL LAND    104.2         115.0      117.7                       155.4                    509.7
POPULATION ACL STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           36.7        31.0       25.9                        31.1                      22.7
15-64 YRS.                           57.4        59.0       64.0                        61.2                     65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     5.9        10.0       10.0                         7.7                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.5         0.5/c      0.3/c                       1.6                       0.8
IIRBAN                               3.3         1.9        1.5                         3.5                       1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.8         19.7      19.4                        23.6                      14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       10.5          9.8       8.8                         9.2                       9.3
GROSS REPRODHCTION RATE                1.8          1.3       1.1                          1.6                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
LSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            64.0        91.0      100.0                       116.0                     111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.4        121.8      138.6/d                     125.1                    130.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            73.7        88.5      104.5/d                      92.7                     97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.9        42.2       51.2/d                      35.9                     61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        1.8          1.6       0.8                         9.2                       0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    68.7          70.9       72.5                        67.6                      73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             29.8        27.7       18.1                        65.1                      11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               26.2        95.0       95.O/e
LRBAN                               67.5       100.0       94.0/e
RURAL                                7.1        92.0       96.O/e
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        95.0       95.0/!
ITTBAN                                         100.0       94-0/e
RURAL                                           92.0       95-0te
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1465.4      1225.2    1282.4/d                     1105.4                     620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1182.4/f     580.2      342.3/d                     634.4                     246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             221.1        182.5      185.8/d                     286.8                     122.0
URBAN                              227.5/f     242.3      258.3/d                     192.0                     140.6
RURAL                             3324.0/f    3111.3    4788.7/d
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         16.2      16.7/e                      20.0                      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIBE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.0          ..
URBAN                                4.0          ..
RURAL                                3.9          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.5          ..
TTRBAN                               1.3          1.0/5
RURAL                                1.6          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               43.1          ..
JRBAN                              90.4           ..
RURAL                               21.5          ..



- 20 -                                   ANNEX I
(Page 2 of 5)
TABLE 3A
CYPRUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CYPRUS                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER GES
- MOST RSCENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                  EUROPE               MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 102.0         88.0/h    84.0oh                      102.9                     101.7
MALE                 103.0         87.0/h    83.0/h                      107.1                     103.9
FEMALE               100.0         88.0/h    85.0/h                       99.0                     103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  47.0         54.0/Lh    66.Oh                      60.2                     88.4
MALE                  55.0         57.0/Lh    66.0/h                      66.4                      83.4
FEMALE                39.0         52.0/h    66.0/h                       54.0                      84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   3.5           10.5/e    13.2/h                       31.6                      18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.6         30.3/e    24.0/h                       25.8                     20.3
SECONDARY                           23.5         21.0/e    17.O0h                       22.2                     16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         75.9         85.0      89.0                         75.9                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          47.6         91.9     121.5/A                       51.0                    338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         148.3       276.5      485.4                        157.2                   1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.8        81.1      161.8                        123.7                    403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  123.9        112.6     108.4                        112.3                     331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0           10.1        ..                          4.0                       3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        237.2       253.6      277.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    33.3        33.6       34.9                         36.6                     36.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               42.0         38.6      35.3                         38.7                      6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  27.1        27.7       28.2                         25.9                     37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.4         42.0      44.8                         44.5                     45.4
MALE                                  56.1         56.4      58.4                         56.3                      58.9
FEMALE                                27.2         27.9      31.2                         32.8                     32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.0       0.8                          0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         12.l/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HAOUSEHOLDS    ..          39.l        ..                           ..                     43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       .           7.9L                                   ..                      5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         19.6/i      ..                           ..                     16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY 1NCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN
RURAL                                 ,,           ,,     376.7|/
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     746.7/d
RURAL                                 ..           ..     512.7/d                      406.6
ESTIMATED. POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration populatLon growth rate is lower, than rate of natural increase; Ld 1977; /e 1975;
/f 1962; /S 1972; /h Exclujding Turkish schools; /i 1966, urban only.



-21 -                                                         ANNEX I
(?age 3 of 5)
smmingm or SCLAL. r0Mtcai
Sata:  Ulthegh the dtna ar  dons fro  sore   enerally lodged ohs tat Anibonitat- act reliable, it shold ct be notd Cbat they ty not be tote--
natlnbecly cow-arblo boo we  of ths lack of ntandadieed defiltiorca  and  -ocpts easd by different ronori-   in colleting the data.  The data nore.ne
theleus. c.ants  to des.cribe orders of  agnit-Ude  Indicat  trradn. edc atce  ceoceu  aejoc diff_reoco  be__e  c__r_..
Th. reference     . oopo  -o  (1) the  -s  coutry grouP of tie nubiset  -tenr  and (2) a conory group  ith newbatt highnr overage Jocose     tha .b ....oCry frop
of the nobeo  cou-ty (eaPcp  for   'High Zero    01 Oiloporte` grou.p where "Kddle  .--o  North Afelon cod Mi0ddb  last" L  chosen  -rc                    of ot-oger
nrouconaffeiruen.).  In rho inferece group d..ath  avrae  ore pcpclntioneeiuhtd aritisnc_  mesa for sar it-dcrn- cod cOco  c-l  oboe
aloofly of the co    Lrai  e grou  hon date for thet todlctor..  Slate the coveng  of countries uog the lodiCut..n depoeds or the  -avalablity of dana
nod to non uifors., catlon men be soerined In reletiOg   -peage  or  -s  aldicotor no            thonee   These averages ae only unaful Lt cpa tfrho voieo
one indiao  cn I tins c-S  the c-utry codreaucaop.
AREA (thoucnd nq.ks.)                                                                           PorultiO :p reicotal fed - oa,urban, -d rural - Popaintice  (rt o.l.
Yocsl - TutoL ecrfne con  cogprtuing land area cod iua4 corers; 1979 dcc.turhu. od.ini) divided hy'choir rnpeort  a  oe    f bonyita1 bedn
Ann,iculcura  - Eotfcoce Of cgrlIuicrc1 are  used teqcrerily or peontnl.y                       uvileblc it public end polo-te genera  un d uPeci-cd bocr.itci aod re-
for c-oy. pantares, Aerbet end kirch.. ge1rdeo  u  to lIe follo; 1979 data.                   babillrati.Heiocneo      Ooyrlsl c-  curtbliobh-on   poreoetly ototiod
hy at l1esar our physician   E-alahllbenu pro-idiug pricilpaLly coeto-
C                   tO~~~~~~~GLP&P  CPITA (Us$1 - lOP Pan capita ortsetca at cu-rret trerk  prices, cl-                dIl care are rot LOCIodec.  tRa.l houpics. bounce. i_ciude hcltb
cledby ace  conerion  Cnhad an acrid  eank Atlas (1978480 beeia); 196f.                     bnd nedical ceoter  rrP-reeely ocf fed by a phyniriuc (bun bya
1970, cod 1900 date,                                                                            eediccla...ccnnnn. tome..  rudoflf. rtoc.) crh offer it-patlr ucctt
d.tict and pruolde c haired rang9o  cftoci fucllilC.-  cur ce 
ENERGY COogoSUpioN PEm CAPITA - dAr-S  conmtn   f ccrclail enegy (coal                            ticol peposna urban h-sphiala iclodo WM.s phoialgor    opituis.
band ligitc. pnrrlema,  tur-rI gs.  end hydo-, nucea  and geotheeal clog-                       cod rCrai houpltio. lo-e  or r-rc  husPitaLn end nedlal an.d atenitry
nrcir iy) Ls lilugec-  of coal equiralt Per caPita;960. 1970. cod 1979                          ce..er..  Sp-rialled bo tl   re Itoledof ocly codne tonal
data..Asnie   e  Honpital led - Tota  toter of adelusinn no or dtsbcrgon
frgbsitsl  fIlided by the oute  of beds.
POPii=Ttl5OO VIA iTOTATTTICO
Toal _paiou  Mid-Yea (hacnd)-  n rf July 1; 1960. 1970. und 19805                      fusSiNG
duna.                                                            Avorcue 01cc of Ilounriold (recouna ceo bocunbuld) - rcrui. orbun, and Idrooni-,-h,1d1 lt.,I   rI    I
Urhn  opueree(pecet  f coalS  _ Ratio cf urh_ cc toa_        oaait                          ucoudcuit   fagra   fldcd1uwo  br  iigqat
dlffe-nti def.ltioiu   uf arbe  areas nay  affCt cogpc.billty of detaband tbelt ale coa.  A boader or ldgor nay orsy net bo  -lcdod It
cangcoeCnin  1969. 1970. cod 1980 data.                                                        the heacoheld faor  tnatictiol p-rpocec.
Pccai  - noerlu                                                                         Aeaeoue   f  osn  pro   oos -totl, -cbn, nod coca  - a...cen co-
Poiittt  inJ year 7000 -            pCratporlatico pjrti-ccu   are boned on 1960              her uf peaspr  u I  ai I        _ca. cod tur   occupid c-eveni-nol
tonal poylalun. by  E. und sn end tbeie  Ctotlity oaf fertclity rts                        dselllgn..reopnotieey.  Doellgaeocludn cu-pentou  atractcrn  cod
Praloctlct persaer-  foo eaotnicty rAtne co.cIn of Chin  bai  ana.                         unoccupied yarns.
Log 110 e _npe-rc  or biorih Loo..roeln  rlthccrrnper caPita incs                        Ac..asco Electicity (rerec  ofCdellon             CrrI, urbow, ad rrci1 -
lece, and foalo Life eupetatnry onbllling el 77.1 years.  Th. PAr-                         C_cceotlon  duullogs winE'.lcorlcity ia liring qa.Ctorn an percen.tage
neteon to  feotility rune Moo lays trie I-velo unnunlg decinein                             ci  totol, urban, ouf ruo1 d-ellu1     onecicly
fserliYacnfe   to  ec            .-vI and peat fEsily yiauniog peofo-r..
fahtb cunryIs dtbon  -,oLged cow  fi rhean nine cot.iaeti..u of -octy                  gOSCATION
co-d f,ertIlity treads for proJectiutpopsc                                                 Adlu-td Etorolst rticn
_neio..   ouatiun - lo  -aetno-Ccry ppoo               hore i. en gr.-h. ninoc               prlsay s.oooi -  -onl tIn  bacd foa -IronC   tonal sale cod rEsale
the birtb rote io oqoa1 to the death rata. and .na the age ntocctue re,                       orollan1 t of all ogen At the PColary 1-v1 coprungcof tenpertire
eine cocteat.  thin in atb.ved only after fertdity rates decline no                           prneery nchn-1-ge p            ..ltln; nerelly Locladon chldlfea    gdf h-Il
tIe  epla-onen  leon  of colt net -ep-odactlo  rote.  hbec ..ch  gnn         Oy ears bradlante.d rEc difforet Iregthn cf ycincy cd-caic; fcor
"f    n  elae  itneIf onetly.  The uttainsayppnulniesa                                 c=enri Leelrt  coi-cnsa  Idu..ution eurulnt nay  -nced ISO seoent
es-tlatd ou the basIs of th. projected chraterTlsnic  of the poPolantie                       nn.e so-  pupiln are helen Oe abc   tie off Iia1 ncbeal age.
in the yea  2000. co  the cats of declin  of fertilIty cat  to replace                      S-cnoysic       iti  oeadfesale - Cauted as above; ..c..tdy
Tea atni-nar  ponul.tatl    is reached - Tha yFert eh-nsaioner  popuLation                      proodan geneal, enectionl. or teeher trainig inenructlowo far yuptls
sire nil ha rec..hed.                                                                         u-ney of 12 to 17 Your  of .age; c_rrepundoe oare.r  gennsly
Pee  o.  s. -Mityea  pop1ltina poe "eqan  kilotter  (170 hbtatene) o0                   . V etloneltsrohllent (percent of sanodory) - Voonzaloel. institutiota
naalasa  O96.190end'1979 dane.                                                           L-I."d taghaeal.. inuela.o  otber progress. hlch ups-tA idspead-
Per so   a.  artealnarl leand - Oaputed ca ab-v  fn sgrirultu1 Leand                          c-ny or as dapuone-   of carodary Ltincrrotows
ony   99  197Oen  1979 data,                                                        PePll-tsebhr ratio -  enr.adseodr- Total sedeote   -1nelbd in
PunuI.Cion Age it-au-ur  (esese   - Cblldnc  (0-ia yacra) -       okn-g  (1i-                   Pr t-,Y end scoedary 14eIs diridod by e-scar  of tsnehers 10 ths
hoyaa.so   eia   165 Ynes. cod Orn) as pee-ngee of elf-year Ppup-                             correspondingI o
ictiu;igc  190     .ad1900 data,                                                          hect lita..scy  fcs(perce) -Itrte  dadlts (able to read cod -rite)
PpreL.nia  drench PAU (Pacat) - totl1 - AAnul growh Ceden of toal Mid-                          enaynotg   ftnluutpopulstiue coed 15 years urdovr
yac populutLun fur 195U-60. 1960-70,. ad 1970-u0.
Pupu1Lutin  frenh tae -    rm  -    a-eben - Anneal growth rates of urban popu-             CONLagMTIl5
lanions for1900, 1960-7. cd 1970-80.                                                        P..ii   Cars (per Chneed pprolatioa( - P-negor care  -ounrie  sorer
Cruda lMbh Rt.t jeer to       d)- Annual lint birth. Per ebo-ead of edd-y-n                     care   s legs lone ebac nighetsae; coo aPer....s  h-bare  cod
popuaI.Con; 1960. 1970, und 1900 data.                                                        nilitory  -ebirln..
Crude fleth gate (Pen thbomagud) - Annual deathc per thuaAe,d  cf  id-Ye..                    Radio te..oiver  (per nioc-o   -rU-aict) - All types of receiv enferdio
Poplton   90  17.cd 1980 dais.                                                                bridcasto to ge-re  public per thcvean  of pouulu -nI.doat
Crou gorduoinehae-cerge nat.r of ioghtern  eaoill bser in                               lienedreiers Sc -oatri.o cod in yearn eben regincrtion of radio
her  .-rsI reproductive period if  h.bn.rope ...c. Pr-eset oge -paif Lt fEr-                  st  on  in effect; data f or rcen  Years ay to  ha c..arablo niCre
C11 ity c-tna; cocoly fIv-year  _eerogp ..di.& It 1960, 1970  nd 1990.                        scat c-cotle  aho1lnbed ljc-astg.
Pnsllv PLunin  -JA. A Pecos Annu   (thoosds.) - A-..I nubcr of accus                          TV  Ceeore(a   heu...d roo.latine  - TV  -oric.r. faor broadocat no
of bjnth-outrol. deoleen ader  cple   f eidnai iceiy pianning peogrn.                         general Pubicper thou-ad popluatin; rolodesunIene  TV onei-er
resLo pleAis a     Uer  (re-rescot    enid sa)-          -ecetge of  -Coind                     it touCrien aud 10 yearn  ~ when gic-tlun of TV e...   .Lan ioffer.
atof chld-b.ering ag  (15-44 yearswhue birnt-co..ol  dowL.e. no                         Oebeeaor" Clu-tion  (per thouad..          ulto   Shun  rho oveag  tie-
all harried w-      La cc  u_ ugr grote.                                                      culanion of 'dailyj    neu  Icterest ooo.par", drfinod as    peiiofloc
P.blicatton dor-od prise'rijy to   Ofrdibg ge-re  re.It La c-rifered
lor   fPo   rdnenio  Per frina (1969-71-100) - (eden of per capita  -una            Clonese Aen-I Attendeoce per Capita Per Tor-   Ooda  the outer of
Prodution Of al  fuod c-Wltiac.  Productio  oncodsan  ung  -ed and                            tictet   -rId during rhe  0.cr, icciadlng  danocordrive-fl  irean
in 00 euander year iccia.  coindiruesco-e   prte.ry goods (e.g. -g-cr-o                       srd sobile  _its
Inste   Of eauger) ethil  are edible and contain ccriance (e.g. coffee and
tea are  _oclaed;.  Aggegetc prodetien of eCb ..ountry in buned enLABOR POKCE
naional  -ona. producne poirs netghos; 1961-65. 1970. cod 1980 deta.ToalbpPue (huudn) - r.oorosiou1y activepeoe   nlfn
Par  -eit. sureLy Of cslaris  (e eat of reqarsns  -uPoted fees                                  noe   Orcsaduepue  hceouigbooloo   edne   t
energy ronielen  of net fnapLIesaaial  in  uetry Par nepita                                   onvarla  pupalaciu   Of ci ages.  lefinitiore  in -cicncuCoica ce
par day.  Available suppliesapen  doastIn p-odenthon, isporta lesa                            to    tZrh;190  1970 and 1900 dane.
epnput. en  chage  in stunk.  Sat cupyllas  -neldo cu1In  feed, needs..yeale fe-ront) - yesle lebue fErn on ye-encga cfcodlabor foTs.
qunicie.  uoeed In fed poeeig.ed lu-n  in dietrlbution.  Reqoi-                              Anr1Icature (p-eret) - labr forte Lc fa...dog,  freLy.               OStn  nad
C                        A~~~~~~ entn wer  cargooteg by PAO bened on phyninlouoa  cods  opE rsl  ti-                    fluting en pe--nnog  oftuta1 1abu  force  1960. 1970 and 1980 dete.
city cod health conideringosrcs&         e  tprtr.body oihs  ag                               ndsryfare           - Labor force La niolog.  -oc-tio..nnf.            cro
and te  diutoibutiro of popu1atie".  'and1 aloing 10 pe-Areu  for ounc  orcd ol1ctrioity. eater .od gun an peCe-togo cf Ctota  labor force;
beh-.'dleel  1961-6.1070 nod 177dor.                                                            lf 19' 970 an  10  data.
Pee ccPLa su1p'ply cE9 Dootei  (gonsepeeda) - Procoin ct...ear of per c-pi.n.orciano Rc  (ceror.) - toCul. ole. ccd toal-rceIcpaio    r
usi uupply of food per day. Slet eapply cf food ia deined as tov.  On-                       activity  utco uro ceupecd as rora. ale. and (ceae tabro  farce u
qc_tenets for aLl loantrios                 byalnhdS  USDA provIde f: oreeie                  percetogen oftua,  l  cd fen1l  paycluior cf oll asre  -oPecoiey
alloence  of 60 gec  of totn1 Protein per day band 20 gV.   of eninl en                        90   90   n   90   us          aar   aed      0   i'   otcprcrec_
pulse petein. of  hbih 15 gTca nhocld be cul"'l protein.   These  Cand-r-fluctiug cue-Ao nCtucor  of  h.r popuictoe, and bog Us  creed.  A
coda Oct lu-e  iCh- thos  c  75 ges  of Itoto  protin and 23 geu  of                          fee ret-o    ur  Iron natreul .oorCen.
aII Co'l pote   un un arnEfo  the  -eId.  -proosd by PAO in the Third                       Icon-ic fopeodeuy Raetio   R erb, cfpoor    ocd-r 15 and 65 ced o-re
OorId Pond Surry; 1961-65, 170 ond 1977 datu.                                                 cc the totol" lao  foce.
Per ulla poocei supply_fros unia  she           .  -~n-eet   eapply of fono fr-
rlvd   rn aimlsandpono  Orgrsafo  day; 1961-65, 1070 oud 1077 data.            TwfyifE llihlgryT00
gbildlae 1-04)  eth Rac  (per tbcnaedl -,Annua  deatbhperoecd                                  eceeaoo  Privae Ccose             tho I  cL n cod,  O dI   - i-cood by riahent
age group 14yor.t  chIoei   itaeguy   o   etfo                            ncu-               5pc-ect  richest 20 purcoe.., proat  70 percoc,..ae  poorest..          pecent
cries date fe-ced fres life tablec; 1960. 1970 and 1900 far.                                  ef icc..obolde.
Life toeatuy at Bireb (nato) - AverageS toebr of rear  ef LIfo reamingo                       The fullocn  ornr  are wry apprcon- neonate  cc p--sry Io.-l..
sn birth; 1960. 1970 and 198D dots.                                                           und  hould be  tlorspreted elthb c      -noAblearin
Infant Wrtality More (per Chouend) - jA--I deatbn of lnfuntc cedar one pee                    Eatioad Abs_icte Poverty Ine-  lvI (till perc-ilta). -urbau nod -rarl-
ofag  per th-nad Iuco birebsl. 1960. 197t cod 1960 d.-                                      Absolute poverty jeose  oce  is- thanicoo.         oo  belc hcb I   etal
A.n-a co Rare  .oter (peantof peieo)- total, urban  and rural - tic-                            e-ritionally adeqato dint yla  essen..tial ene-ferd rnvoirs-Cs in net
bee of P."pi. (COWn. urben,. od rural) with reaconbla nacoss to cfeof fordable.
sorer snpply (n tuds  mtnd ...rfsoyse otr.  enC..toente hut ae -aaseand                     Utattrd Reletiec Poc-rr  Ina  Level (U10 or   -peit.) - oche aed r-ri1
teet   aoh as that f en proestnd boeshI.e.  prleg. ned sunIntry veils)  as                    coa  relatc- peeCty I--o-  leve  Lo ore-third of avrae ru coplc
par__tagas of their resperive populations.  In en urban eron.pubIL                            persona  sC-   of the   -tCry.  Urbce level Is dorived Erosthe rural
fountai  or  eandpns  Iboated con menr ebn 20  sanersufees a hon  may be                      level 5mth ad7natae  for hIgher.. costa  ILicie  Un uCbcn  ac.
ocoidered as being of hbi.  -eaoble, acces  of thAn hose   i  roesI oreco                 toicdPecaistln   bruaPect   nr  ioL  (nr                                - urban
eccnbla aces  vonld iply ntht the honendic.o se  ars  of the hecosbld                        andintl-Pecuofpultn(rhnadur)   oae'uoue
do nat here cc  pand s dinproPoetnecs pact of the day  In fetc.hIng the                        en
Acces no g.tree  Dla.--I fonreco  of peou1orin) - tota.1 anbas cod rar.1 
Otter oCf people (tota. cebe   .dse   -rL) esecc  by eerat dis41pasal us
Percentage  of their Ceseenotioseelnee   esaraALds=e  say t-uclde
ifs enSaie           ci fS.eqcs. eAch os  ltns-t neasan, af h         aneestar
sad eacita-wt', by eage-birene spats cr the use of pit print and ale.L-
LAe iatallati-ee
PE!alerien  -      ! pyinla  - Popuatba  divided by notar of prectinlag physi-                                                      &-.US ned Soola  Thta Dieliain
rins  qelififred    s u- adinel enbeu  an anivniy icos.                                                                     nooosi  Aaesysue usa Pr-5sotsec Depseest
Psonlting   "- naesPre  - CP-0.atbn divided by  -".e cC peaccisnes                                                                              Bap re2
t_nsa  feiee gesba Wne eve. casgagot tease  preetinel semrsas eat
conig  nelirgs



- 22 -
kpade 4 ox ))
0YPRUS - ELCNOMi6 DEVELOP?i1  DAIA SHEET li
Actual                        Estimacec        1roiecteo            Annual LGrowth Rate   snare or G)?P
1975      1977        1979         191         19d;        1993        1995        19?-9U    1991-o)          1pI>
NATIONAL ACCUUNTS
(US$ million, 1975 prices)
Gross domestic product (at
market prices)                  Od9.9   I014.1        125).7      1344.U        1397.d      1459.1      159U.)         13.8         j.Y       iuu.u
Gain from terms of trade             -        -I.u       -46.U                 -      -
Gross domestic income              bb9.9   10)03.1      Iu9.7        1344.U       1397.6    1459.d        1)9),. I:.o                  ,         luu.u
Exports (goods 9 NFS)              2448.0    513.o       o7U.5       857.o         909D. 9I93.u            IUd9.6        24.5         7.7        U3.6
Imports (goods & NFS)             395.b    7e7.4         913.7       955.7         993.9    IU847.o       1131.u         Id.o         5.1,       71.1
Resource balance                   147.d    213.8        243.2         9d.1         d4.d        74.)        -6.2     ~    .u        -19.6          7-J
Investment                         12U.0    258.2        375.7        '59-)        Jo4.7      .1/U.2      3d1.4         2..0          i.2.       Zb.7
Consumption                        717.7    95sa7       lU77.2       1U8Z.8       1117.9      1163.1      i2b7.3          9.4                     du.u
Domestic savings                   -27.o      44.4       132.        201,Z        z79,9       2V6,2       j33.            .         le.u          9.
National savings                    105.      93,7       174.9        295,7        JU4.U       319.3       3)9.9         b5.U         9.9         21.1
SECTOR OUTPUT                                   Share of Total Output ac Current Factor oot (Z)
Agriculture                         1b.7      14.U        l1.b         10.1          9.b         9.7         9.j           ,) 
Industry                            24.3      29.7        34.b         35.1         35.4        J5.u        34.5         lo.j ,j
Others                              59.U      56.3        53.6         54.8         54.d        55.3        56.U         13.1         4.b
PRICES (1975  IUO)
Export price                       IUU.U    107.1        114.5        131.9        1J7.2       145.4       167.2
Import price                       1UO.O    107.1        119.2        146.1        151.9       1bl.1       195.3
rerms of Trade                    IU0.O       99.9        96.1        90.3          90.o       90.3         9U.,
GDP deflator                      110.U    118.0         148.8        18b.3        193.d       Z05.4       236.2
PUbLIC FINANCE                            is % of GDP at Current Market Price
Government revenues                 21.3      18.9        2U.U         22.3         23.1
Government expenditures and
net lending                      35.5       26,t        27.4        8Q.7          3U.1
Deficit                             14,2       7.8         7.4          8.4          7.1
SELECTED INDICATURS                1975-80   1981-85                    LABOR FOkCE                 1975         1991
ICOR                                 35.        5.4                     Labor force (thousand)   2U7.         21U.U
Import elasticity                     1.3       1.                     Unemployment k%)             16.1       2.9
Average domestic savings rate         9.4      2U.2                     Employment (thousand)       17J,d    21U4.1
Marginel aomestic savings rte   34.7           2b.3                       A#riculturs 06)            25.3       21.9
Investment/GDP                       27.8      25,6                       Industry (X)               22.U      29.U
Importc/&OP                          58.7      71)U                       Othera (XJ                 52.7      4V.t
I/ Refer to the area under Government's control only-
EM2DD
April 1983



- 23 -
ANr*.A I
(Page D or )
CYPRUS - BaLANOi OF PAYMENTS AND EXTiERNAL ASSISEANCUL 1/
(In miLlion of US dollars)
Actual                 Estimated         Projected
1975       1977    1979    1981        1982        1933      1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS SUMMARY
Exports (goods & 4FS)         275.b       519.1   b72.b    997.9    1111.0   1295.4           1761.k
Imports (goods & NFS)          390.3      7U3.1  1138.7   1238.9    1361.2   1577.L           2U56.2
Resource gap                  -114.7     -lt4.0  -2b6.1   -241.U    -27U.3   -281.8           -295.0
Net factor income                5.2       23.U   -10.4    -24.5          56.7      54.2        38.3
Net transfer                    15.z        14.2    24.8       Z7.4       27.)      30.1        3j.9
Current account balance        -94.3    -146.8  -251.7   -18Y .1    -106.2   -197.5           -2Z2.8
Grants to government            57.u        58.u    4b.d       35.7       39.8      39.b        3S.4
Net M & LT                       2.2       41.7   126.4    145.3         132.6    144.b        176.4
Disbursement                12-.       57.3   10b.6    221.1        :22.0    257.1         3)2.2
Amortization                10.1       15.0    40.Z       75.8       93.0      108.)       L75.8
Capital, n.i.e.                  6.0       43.0    24.d        72.0       77.0      83.U        92.4
Net errors and omissions        -9.8        8.3    22.U        16.2
Overall balance                -38.8        5.4   -32.2        80.7       63.2      73.7        81,4
International reserves
(end year)       215.2       332.2   373.9    506.J        575.7    057.4       8ti7.4
Exchange rate ($/CL)          2.7162     2.4510  2.8220   2.3789    2.1021
Petroleum imports               49.1       83.b   125.4   2ZS.a          270.5    298.2        371.U
LOAN COMMITMENTS
Actual
DEBT & DEBT SERVICE               1973    1977      1979  ibI
Total M & LT                     7.0       78.1    52.6    204.9            Total debt 6utstanding
IBRD                         -         1U.0    16.U       14.U           (Disbursed, end ot period)   Yb.3   lb.6.3   JuU.o  497.j
Other multilateral           5.6        5.2      2.7      29.4         Public debt service                10.1    15.6    40.2   73.8
Bilateral                    -         10.4    14.4       25.4          of which interest                t4.Y)   (8.0)  lZ4.8) (41.z)
Suppliers                    1.4        1.7      3.9       5.S         Debt service ratio                 3.7      3.U      4.o    7.b
Financial institutions    -            50.8    15.7    13U.4           I nterest/Total W00                b.)      5.3       d.3    8.4
Debt service/Total DOD            13.2      9.6    Id.4   i5.2
IBR0D Disb./Total disb.          28.4       5.U    13.t    4.9
AVERAGE TERMS OF M&LT COMMITMENTS                                                Iii9V DD0/Total DOD              Sl.U     24.9    lb.7   14.5
ISKD debt servicelTotal
Grant element of total                                                       debt service                     47.0    34.8    i8.L    14.9
commitments                  15.8       17.U      7.1    -11.1
Average interest (%)             o.7         7.1      8.3      13.7
Average maturity (year)         14.4        12.5      9.5      10.7
1/  Refer to the area under Government's control only.
EM2DD
April 1983



'24 -
ANNEX II
(Page I of 4)
THE STArTus OF BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN CYPRUS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ Million ---------
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
Number   Year      Borrower       Purpose                  Bank          Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                75.5                -
1344     1976   Republic of       Highway II
Cyprus                                     10.0               4.7
1483     1977   Republic of       Rural
Cyprus           Development               10.0               2.6
1540     1978   Cyprus Ports    Ports II
Authority                                   8.5                1.4
1658     1979   Republic of       Water Resources
Cyprus           Development              1l.0                9.8
1744     1979   Cyprus            DFC
Development
Bank                                        5.0               0.1
1873     1980   Electricity       Power V
Authority of
Cyprus                                     16.U               9.7
1988     1981   Republic of       Fruit and Vegetable
Cyprus           Export                    14.0              1.3.5
2128     1982   Republic of       Highways III              12.2               12.)
Cyprus
Total                                            162.2               53.b
of which has been repaid                        38.8
Total now outstanding                            123.4
Amount sold,                    2.3
of which has been repaid    2.3
Total now held by Bank                           123.4
Total undisbursed                                                    53.8



- 25 -
ANNEX II
(Page 2 of 4)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
-------us$ Million-------
Year            Obligor             Type of Business        Loan     Equity       Total
1972    Cyprus Cement Company           Cement               2.3        0.6         2.9
1977    Cyprus Pipes Industry           Construction
material            0.5        0.2         0.7
1983    Dome Hotel                      Tourism              1.9        0.3         2.2
1983    Cyprus Investment and           Money and
Securities Corporation       Capital Markets        -        0.2         0.2
Total gross commitments                             4.7        1.3         6.0
Less cancellations, sales,
terminations and repayments                         2.6        0.5         3.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                   2.1        0.8         2.9
Total undisbursed                                   1.9        0.5         2.4



- 26 -
ANNEX II
(Page 3 of 4)
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Loan No. 1344:.  Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 million loan of December 31,
1976.  Effective Date:  October 11, 1977.  Closing Date:
April 30, 1984.
The project has had considerable delays due tc) contractual disputes
and financial problems experienced by the contractor. In view of the
contractor's serious liquidity problems, the contractor rorfeitec the contract
and the Government rebid the outstanding works under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development. Following
award of contract, work was restarted on the remaining construction for the
Nicosia-Limassol road, total completion of which (75 km.) is estimated by
February 1984 with partial completion and use by traffic of 37.5 km. by June
1983.
Loan No. 1483: Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million loan of August 18, 1977. Effective Date: November /,
1977. Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Overall implementation of project works is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of the Xyliatos Dam and the irrigation ponds is
underway, with about half of the ponds alreaay completed.  Healthi facilities
and village streets are essentially completed, and work is progressing on farm
roads, on-farm water distribution systems, and land conservation,
consolidation and rehabilitation. However, due to delays in project
commencement, the project is not expected to be completed before the original
closing date of June 30, 1983.  Accordingly, the Government has requested and
the Bank has agreed to an extension of the closing date by one year to june
30, 1984.
Loan No. 1540:  Second Ports Project:  US$8.5 million loan of April 12, 1978.
Effective Date;  August 11, 1978.  Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
The contract for the main civil works component involving
construction of quays at Limassol has been awarded and construction work is
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems that are being encountered and tthe action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
(Page 4 of 4)
underway after initial delays. Overall progress is satisfactory, and
substantial progress toward project completion has been accomplished. The
closing date has been extended to December 31, 1983 to allow additional time
for completion of all Bank-financed project components.
Loan No. 1658: Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project for Water Resources
Development: US$11.0 million loan of February 12, 1979.
Effective Date. July 16, 1979. Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Although the project suffered initial delays aue to slow progress in
appointment of consultants and recruitment of staff, implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for dam construction have been awardea
and construction work is expected to start shortly.
Loan No. 1744:  Third Cyprus Development Bank Project:  US$5.U million loan of
July 5, 1979. Effective Date: November 30, 1979. Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The management and staff of CDB have developed a gooa project
appraisal and supervision capability, and project implementation continues
smoothly. The loan for this project has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1873: Power Transmission and Distribution Project: US$16.0 million
loan of June 25, 1980. Effective Date: November IU, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project experienced delays in start-up. However, construction of
the transmission line financed under the project is now substantially
completed. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and project
completion is expected by December 1984.
Loan No. 1988: Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 15, 1981. Effective Date: August 26, 1981. Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with the
exception of the continued delay in the components coordinated by the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry. Construction work is underway on the model winery
at Limassol.
Loan No. 2128: Third Highway Project; US$12.2 million loan of June 8, 1982.
Effective Date: September 15, 1982. closing Date: June 30,
1987.
Project implementation is underway and proceeding satisfactorily.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
(Page I of 1)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET'
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken by country to prepare project:  Three and a half years (April 1979
- November 1982)
Agency which prepared project              : Ministry of Agriculture with
assistance from UNDP
Project first presented to Bank            : August 1982
Departure of appraisal mission               November 1982
Completion of negotiations                : April 8, 1983
Planned date of effectiveness                August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Condition of Effectiveness:
Appointment of Project Manager and two Deputies (Para. 43)
2.  Measures to be undertaken by the Government include:
(a)   Establish by September 30, 1983 the PPACC ancl the PAC tPara. 4i) and
maintain the Panel of Experts to review the plans and designs of the
Evretou Darr (Para. 45).
(b)   Provide to the Loan Commissioners for medium-term on-lending to
project participants such amounts as needed to assure their full
development of production (Para. 46).
(c)   By December 31, 1986, prepare and submit to the Bank for its review
detailed operation and maintenance manuals for all project works and
establish the operation and maintenance section within WDD (Para.
48).
(d)   Undertake appropriate studies to determine the proposed water
charges for the 1986 season and submit these for the Bank's comments
by December 31, 1985 (Para. 53).
(e)   Review, together with the Bank, the fruit and vegetable export
marketing situation by December 31, 1985 and thereafter implement
recommendations resulting from the review as agreed with the Bank to
further ensure the adequate organization of marketing channels for
fruit and vegetable export (Para. 58).



IBRD 16930
4_  =  ,v7        W            FEBRUARY 1983
oco~~~~~~~~o
Cl-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c'
a)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0-          0 E                                                                -1
o L         -                     A
0
<   > u  '  '. t' ' " aT: 
Q , E ~~~~~C) L9  rO              0 on
g            >           :f } - - z  O.  >                 S         X    X  X                 $>
I                  e                                           -.              ,            gC3 



