Document of
The World Bank                                          'V
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4351-CY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 18, 1983
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS.
Currency Unit      =     Cypriot Pound (CE)
1 C£                     1,000 Mils
1 C£              =      2.10 US Dollars (us$)
1 US$             =      0.476 C£
1 Us$             =      476 Mils
CE Million         =     US$2.1 Million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 oke                            =      1.28 kilograms (kg)
1 kilogram (kg)                  =      2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)             =      2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)                      =      0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)               =      35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter (m3)               =      264 US gallons
1 liter per second (l/s)         =      0.035 cubic feet per second
(cfs)
1 imperial gallon                -      1.2 US gallons
I hectare (ha)                   =      7.5 donums
1 hectare (ha) '                        2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)       =      0.3861 square miles
1 millimeter (mm)                =      0.0394 inches
1 millimhos per centimeter       =      electrical conductivity
(mmhos/cm)                              (EC) X 1,000 at 250C
1 millimho (mmho)                =      1,000 micromhos
1,000 micromhos per cm           =      approximately 700 ppm
ABBREVIATIONS
ARI      -   Agricultural Research Institute
CCB      -   Cooperative Central Bank
CCS      -   Cooperative Credit Society
DA       -   Department of Agriculture
EEC      -   European Economic Community
FAO/CP   -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations/
IBRD Cooperative Program
FEEAP    -   Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan
GD       -   Geological Survey Department
HEDACC   -   Horticultural Export Development Advisory and Coordinating
Committee
IBRD     -   International Bank for the Reconstruction and Development
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
KIP      -   Khrysokhou Irrigation Project
LCA      -   Land Consolidation Authority
LC       -   Loan Commissioners
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
LIT      -   Limited International Tendering
MCI      -   Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MIP3     -   Million Cubic Meters
MANR     -   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources



FOR OFFICIAL UM ONLYi
ABBREVIATIONS (continued)
BUZ buMonitoring and Evaluation Unit
PAG           Project Advisory Committee
PPCC      -   Project Policy Coordinating Committee
UNDP           United Natio-ns Development Programme
USBR      -   United States Bureau of Reclamation
WDD       -   Water Development Department
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution ar,d may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may rot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                 Page No.
1.    INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND WATER DEVELOPMENT IN CYPRUS  . .        2
A.  The Agricultural Sector .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
-  General   . . .     . . . . .         . . . . . .  . .      2
-  Agricultural Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2
-  Land Resources, Use and Tenure  . . . . . . . . . . .       3
- Water Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        3
-  Irrigation Development .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
-  Horticultural Exports and Marketing Organization  . .       4
B.  Agricultural Policies and Programs . . . . . . . . . . .       5
C.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector  . . . . . .       6
III.     THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
A.  Project Location . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
B.  Climate  . .a.a ....           .............                   7
C.  Topography, Soils and Geology  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7
D.  Land Resources, Use and Tenure . . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
E.  Existing Infrastructure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
F.  Supporting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
-  Agricultural Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
-  Agricultural Extension  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9
-    Credit    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
IV.    THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
A.  Project Objectives and Brief Description . . . . . . . .      11
B.  Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
-  Evretou Dam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
- Conveyor System   ..13
-  Irrigation Distribution System  . . . . . . . . . . .      14
-  Groundwater Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      14
- On-farm Systems   ..14
-    Staffing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in November-
December 1982, consisting of Messrs. H. Eisa (Horticulturist), P. van der C-oot
(Economist), S. Rana (Irrigation Engineer) and C. Langer (Marketing
Consultant).



Chapter                                                                          Page No.
IV.    C.  Status of Design and Engineering . Q               . . . . . . .       16
D.  Water Demands Supply and Quality . . . . . . . . . . . .              17
E.  Cost Estimates . Q  aQ. a    a       a..       a . . . . . . . . .    19
F.  Financing  .              Q a  e a  o 4    . . . . . . . .   a        21
G.  Procurement       a  a Q     .a. .      a I    . . . . . . . .   a .  23
H.  Disbursements  . a . . a a . a a . . . . . . . . . . . .              24
I.  The Role of Women  . a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              25
J.  Environmental Tmpact .         a . .    a  a .  a   a . . . .    . . ..  26
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .    a . .            a . . . . . .   . . . . . . a  26
A.  Implementation Schedule  . . . . .   a . . . . . . . . . .            26
B.  Project Organization and Management  . . . . .   a a a . .            26
-  Coordination and Advisory Committees   .  . . . . . . .           27
-  Project Works.              . .Qa a     a a  . a   .   . . . . . .  28
-  On-farm Systems . a   . . . a   . . . . . . . . . . . . .         28
-  Agricultural Research . . . . . .                   a . . . . . . . . .  29
-  Agricultural Extension  a a . . . . . . . . . . . e.              29
-  Credit  .       . . = . a . . . . . . . . . . . . . a a  . .      29
C.  Operationt and Maintenance  . a . . . . . e . . . . . . .             30
D.  Accounting and Auditing  . . . . . . . . a a  . . . . a          .    30
E.  Monitoring, Evaluation arnd Reporting Procedures  . a . .             30
F.  International Commodity Agreements . . . . a        . . . . . .       31
VI.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION a . . . . . . . . . . . .               31
A.  Agricultural Production  a a a =.a                         a a . . .  31
B.    Prices   .  a  .  .  a  a  a .   .   a .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  O. .  a .  .  33
C.  Marketing  . . . . . . ..a                   a   . . . . a   . .      34
D.  Beneficiaries  . a a a a . . . . . .  a        .    . . . a...        35
E.  Producer Incomes, Cost, Rent Recovery and Financial
Impact   .  .   a  a  a  a  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  36
F.  Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              37
G.  Project Risks        aa        a a a a a a a a a a .   a . . . .      39
ViI.      AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  a .             a . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
TEXT TABLES
3.1       Farm Sizes and Their Distribution  .           a . . . . . . . . .     8
4.1       Total Project Costs  . a   . . a . . . . . . . . . . . . .            20
4.2       Project Financing Plan . . . . . a a a . . . . . . . . .              22
4.3       Summary of Proposed Procurement P'lans  . . . . . . a . .             24
4.4       Estimated Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   a           25
6.1       Crop Areas, Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . . . .              32
6.2       Producer and Export Prices    a . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           33
6.3       Agricultural Income Distribution  a . . . . . . . . . . .             36
ANNEXES
I     Detailed Cost Estima-es  . . . . .a.a a .           a .  a a a .  a a .    40
2     Schedule of Annual Expenditures  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 42
3     Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               45
4      Farm Income and Expenditure Flows  . a a. . . . . .  .    . . a.          46



Page No.
ANNEXES
5     Rent and Cost Recovery Indices..  .             .....  ... . . .          47
6   EconomicAnalysis(ERR)  ........ .........    48
7     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File.                49
CHARTS
1     System Diagram (World Bank No. 24569)   . ...... ...   .                  52
2     Implementation Schedule (World Bank No. 24570) ...... .                   53
3     Project Organization (World Bank No. 24589)  . .  .... . .                54
4     Fruit Production Calendar in the Project Area
(World Bank No. 24590)   ..... .           .... .....              55
5     Vegetable Production Calendar in the Project Area
(World Bank No. 24591)   . .     . o. .   ...       .... .  .   .  56
MAPS
Project Area (IBRD No. 16930)






CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cyprus has requested a Bank loan to assist in
financing the development of water resources and agriculture in the Khrysokhou
region which is considered one of the least developed in Cyprus. The proposed
project would support the Government's continued efforts to develop scarce
water resources of the island, increase agricultural productivity and farm
incomes, and expand agricultural exports, particularly of high-quality fruits
and vegetables, thereby increasing foreign exchange earnings.
1.02      Preparation of the project was initiated in April 1979 with the
United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP) financial assistance and
executed jointly by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO) and the Water Development Department (WDD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). The feasibility study leading to
the proposed project was prepared in 1981 with FAO/CP assistance in finalizing
the main report in March 1982 to assure the project's suitability for Bank
appraisal. The Government, with FAO/CP assistance, engaged the services of
consultants to design the dam component and prepare tender documents based on
final design. The consultant's report was submitted to the Government on
November 28, 1982 during the appraisal mission's visit.
1.03      Bank lending for agriculture to Cyprus began in 1974 with the Paphos
Irrigation Project, Loan 960-CY (US$14 million); and was followed by the
Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project in 1977, Loan 1483-CY
(US$10 million); the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project in 1979, Loan 1658-CY
(US$ll million); and the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project in 1981,
Loan 1988-CY (US$14 million). The Paphos Irrigation Project was completed in
August 1982, and the Borrower's draft completion report, forwarded to the Bank
for review in October 1982, is now being finalized by the Government.
Implementation of these projects has been satisfactory, and lessons learned
during their implementation were considered in the formulation and design of
the proposed project.
1.04      This report is based on the feasibility study of 1981 and its
updated main report of March 1982, the tender documents of the Evretou Dam and
irrigation system final design, and the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Cyprus in November-December 1982.



- 2 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND WATER DEVELOPMENT IN CYPRUS
A. The Aricultural Sector
General
2.01      Although overall economic growth during the period 1979-81 was
somewhat less than in the preceding three-year period (1977-79), the average
annual rate oLf growth of 5.4% was respectable and exceeded the 1979-81 plan
target. The services sector achieved the highest growth rate (8.5% p.a.)
reflecting primarily the rapid growth of the tourist industry, whereas the
manufacturing sector registered an average annual growth rate of 7.5%.
Agriculture, on the other hand, grew only at an average rate of 2.5% p.a. and
fell short of its 1979-81 plan target of 3.2%. As a consequence of such
differential sector growth rates, the share of agriculture in overall GDP
considered over a prolonged period declined steadily and stands presently at
about 11% (1981). The sector continues to be important, for it employs about
25% of the economically active population and directly or indirectly accounts
for about 25% of commodity exports.
Agricultural Production
2.02      In 1981, about 70% of sector value added was generated by the crop
subsector, 20% by livestock act4vities and the balance by fisheries, forestry
and hunting. Though irrigated crops occupy only about 10% of the total
agricultural land area, these generate nearly 80% of value added in crop
production, the balance coming from rainfed, mainly cereal production on 90%
of the area. These productivity differentials clearly indicate that, on the
physical resources side, development of Cypriot agriculture is severely
constrained by available irrigation water supplies.  During the period
1979-81, value added for irrigated crops increased at about 3.5% p.a., for
rainfed crops at about 1.5% p.a., whereas value added in livestock production
remained virtually unchanged.
2.03      Long-term sector growth prospects mainly depend on the Government's
social economic policy objectives. It would appear, however, that, even under
very favorable external conditions and government policies, long-term sector
growth, for three primary reasons, is not likely to exceed 2-3% per year.
First, growth of crop production will depend mainly on expansion of the
irrigated area. This is expected to increase by an average 10,000 ha over the
next 10 years, or by about 2.5% per years  Such increase is not likely to
result in a corresponding gain in value added because the real cost of inputs
in modern irrigated agriculture is likely to increase considerably. Second,
though there is still scope for yield increases, both in irrigated as in
rainfed crop production, corresponding value-added increments will be modest
for the same reason as stated above. Third, livestock production depends
largely on imported and subsidized feed. It appears to be undesirable to
continue to increase such feed grain imports and subsidies, and hence it is
unlikely that the performance of this subsector can be maintained,



- 3 -
2.04      Agricultural exports play an important role in Cyprus' foreign
exchange earnings; in 1980, they accounted directly and indirectly for nearly
25% of all commodity export earnings. The most important commodities in value
terms are potatoes, citrus, grapes and wines while in recent years the value
of vegetable exports has been increasing steadily. The above commodities
accounted for 36%, 24%, 13%, 11% and 8% respectively of the total agricultural
export earnings in 1981.
Land Resources, Use and Tenure
2.05      Of the total land area in Cyprus of 925,000 ha, only 424,000 ha are
available for agriculture. Dryland fie'ld crops (mainly barley) occupy some
380,000 ha, and only 44,000 ha (about 10%) are under controlled irrigation
(excluding spate irrigated areas). Horticultural crops, e.g., citrus,
vegetables, potatoes, deciduous fruits and table grapes, are the principal
crops grown on irrigated lands.
2,06      Private ownership, in the area under government control, accounts
for 93% of the agricultural land,./ the balance comprising government,
church and communal lands. Eighty percent of private Land is farmed by the
owners while rental contracts account for about one-qu&rter of the total farm
area,  The total number of holdings is about 44,500, with an average farm size
of 4.5 ha. Eighty-six percent of the total number of farms is less than 8 ha
and covers about 46% of the farm area; on average, eac; olalding consists of
about six parcels and increasing fragmentation poses development problems. In
order to reverse this trend, a Land Consolidation Law was enacted in 1969, and
a Land Consolidation Authority (LCA) was created in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) in 1972. As a result of its
successful programs, progress in halting the extreme fragmentation of land in
Cyprus has been significant. LCA does not normally undertake land
consolidation activities unless sufficient interest is generated to initiate a
consolidation program in a particular area and 75% of the landowners have
voted in favor of consolidating their land.
Water Resources
2.07      The average annual precipitation in Cyprus ranges from 290 mm in the
Western Messaoria area to 1,190 mm on the Troodos mountains for a total of
about 4,500 Mm3 of water p.a. on the entire island. Surface evaporation and
evapotranspiration from forests and pastures account for about 2,520 Mm3 of
water p.a. and from cultivated and irrigated crops about 1,030 Mm3 p.a.  An
estimated 350 Mm3 enter the groundwater thus resulting in about 600 Mm3
p.a. as the net amount of surface runoff.
2.08      Most of the groundwater resources comprising sandstone, gypsum and
alluvial aquifers have already been developed, and the prospect of further
development of minor aquifers is limited because of quantity as well as
because of water quality. Therefore, surface water is assuming more
importance as the predominant source of water for development. Presently, it
1/ 1977 Agricultural Census.



-4
is estimated that, annually, about 175 Mm.. of surface water are utilized for
agricultural and domestic uses, and the remaining 425 Mm3 are wasted to the
sea during floods.
Irrigation Development
2.09      The total storage capacity of reservoirs in Cyprus, mostly for
irrigation, including the recently completed Asprokremmos Dam near Paphos, is
116 Mm3. These provide an average annual water yield of 86.7 Mm3. The
groundwater schemes provide about 360 Mm3 annually for irrigation. The
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project, which is presently under implementation, would
add about 32 Mm3 of storage capacity and, on completion, would be the
irrigation source for about 1,600 ha. The proposed Khrysokhou Irrigation
Project would provide 23 Mm3 of storage capacity at the Evretou Dam to serve
2,000 ha of irrigation area.
Horticultural Exports and Marketing Organization
2.10      Wnereas total commodity export earnings in the period 1977-80 rose
by about 50% in current terms, horticultural and related export receipts rose
by only 10%; and as a consequence, the share of the latter in total commodity
export receipts fell from about 37% in 1977 to about 25% in 1980. Export
prices of most horticultural commodities, citrus, grapes and potatoes, rose
only moderately in current terms and stagnated in real value; only unit export
values of vegetables registered a substantial increase (20%) in real terms.
Significant increases in future sector export earnings will mainly depend on
Cyprus' ability to shift exports to high-value vegetables and exotic fruits
(e.g., avocados and kiwis) and to increase exportable volumes of traditional
items such as potatoes, citrus fruit and table grapes. Such changes require
continued investment in water development projects, on-farm irrigation systems
and commensurate attention to applied research and extension coupled with
effective export marketing mechanisms.
2.11      Part of Cyprus' agriculture was developed to produce specific fruits
and vegetables for the UK market. The realignment of UK trade policies,
following UK entry into the European Economic Community (EEC), resulted in
Cyprus' loss of preferential entry into that market. Interim policies were
replaced in 1978 by the Special Commonwealth Preference for Cyprus which
stipulated preferential tariffs for a variety of horticultural products. The
UK continues to be the main market for Cyprus' horticultural products (e.g.,
85% of potatoes, 50-60% of citrus), though modest diversification to other
European countries and the Middle East is in process.
2.12      The main problems facing Cypriot exports of horticultural products
are (i) concentration in one particular market, (ii) lack of coordination
among exporters on one hand and between exporters and producers on the other,
and (iii) absence of a long-term export marketing strategy.
2.13      These problems are recognized by the Government, and their
resolution is considered essential to attaining the envisaged benefits from
present and future irrigation projects including the proposed project. The



- 5 -
Fruit and Vegetable Export Proiect (Loan 1988-CY) was designed to resolve the
foremost fruit and vegetable marketing problems. Under this project, which
became effective on August 26, 1981. a Fruit and Vegetable Export Marketing
Advisor was selected to assist the Horticultural Export Development Advisory
and Coordinating Committee (HEDACC) in restructuring the export trade, market
intelligence, coordination of marketing services and export promotion.
2.14      Organization of Exports.  Cyprus' fruit and vegetable exports are
channeled through four distinct types of export marketing organizations. The
first and most important is the Potato Marketing Board which was established
in 1964 as a regulatory agency fully responsible for production planning and
marketing of potatoes. The Carrot Marketing Board has been established along
similar lines but with a smaller size of operations. The second type is that
of the Agricultural Products Cooperative Marketing Union (SEDIGEP Ltd.) which
exports about 30% of citrus, table grapes and deciduous fruits. SEDIGEP also
exports about 20% of the total vegetable exports and recently has been
involved in exporting avocados. The third type, mainly for citrus and table
grapes, is that of vertically integrated firms who own both production and
marketing facilities and ship their production mainly to the UK through their
own representatives or offices in London. The fourth and last main marketing
type is that of independently operating export marketing firms for a wide
variety of other fruits and fresh vegetables and is characterized by a
relatively large number of independent exporters with small-scale operations.
B. Agricultural Policies and Programs
2.15      The Government continues to consider agriculture as one of its
priority areas. Within an overall framework of actions to maximize
production, of improving income levels and of balancing regional growth, the
sector objectives of the Fourth Emergency Economic Action Plan (FEEAP),
1982-86, are (i) to expand irrigation; (ii) to modernize the sector;
(iii) to improve the marketing system; and (iv) to restructure price and
subsidy controls.
2.16      Because of the high unit cost of irvestment in irrigation, the FEEAP
allocates nearly two-thirds of the total sector investment budget of
CE150 million (US$315 million) to water development programs.]/ In
addition, the FEEAP includes the provision of about CE25 million
(US$52.5 million) in loans to farmers to facilitate, in conjunction with
extension, further modernization of the sector. The Government's strategy of
promoting exports is a sensible one considering the contraints imposed by a
small domestic market and the various comparative advantages of Cypriot
agriculture. Improvement of present export marketing, coordination of
producers' and exporters' efforts, and elaboration of a long-term export
strategy is a prerequisite for further large increases in agricultural exports.
2.17      The Plan recognizes that the financial and economic cost of a set of
price controls and subsidies in the sector has grown substantially, and, as a
1/ Cyprus - Current Economic Positions and Prospects for Growth during the
Five-Year Plan, 1982-86. IBRD Report No. 4069-CY (January 19, 1983).



- 6 -
result, the FEEAP includes, am.ong agricultural policy objectives, "the
restructuring of controlled prices and subsidies with a view to increasing the
efficiency of the agricultural sector." In 1981, these subsidies corresponded
to about 28% of agricultural GDP.  By far the most important subsidy was the
grain subsidy, caused by government purchases of grain (wheat and barley) at
comparatively high prices from farms, coupled with additional imports of grain
which are sold at less thani import prices to food-processing industries and
feed-mixing firms, hence distorting the monetary value of feed and food in
relation to their real value. The wine subsidy is of much lesser importance
in aggregate terms. Preliminary work on irrigation subsidies suggests that,
in the aggregate, these represent only a modest transfer payment; a more
detailed study, however, could well lead to the conclusion that, as projects
are coming to fruition (e.g., Paphos), irrigation water subsidies become
substantial and may lead, in instances, to an uneconomical use of water. This
will be the subject of a forthcoming economic sector mission.
C. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
2.18      The Bank has, so far, focused its lending to agriculture primarily
on the development of new and the more efficient use of existing water
resources, the sector's most limiting physical factor. Second in priority has
been the increase of the sector's low labor productivity to promote productive
eraployment and to achieve a more equal distribution of economic growth among
sectors. The Bank's participation in the sector has also served as a catalyst
to attract development financing from other sources.
2.19      The Paphos Irrigation Project, started in 1974 and completed in
1982, provided essential irrigation infrastructure mainly for export
production and assisted in financing on-farm investments. The ongoing
Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project, started in early 1977 and
expected to be completed by the end of 1983, emphasizes productive and social
infrastructure investments directed towards the poorest parts of government-
controlled Cyprus. The third ongoing project undertaken in the agricultural
sector, the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project, started in 1979, is intended to
develop water resources for irrigation and to reduce the shortages of potable
water in the cities of Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca. The latest project
undertaken so far, the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project of 1981, complements
previous Bank investments in the sector by initiating a set of institutional
and organizational changes in the fruit and vegetable export trade and
improving the utilization of scarce water resources, creating further
employment opportunities and improving productivity. Although the marketing
components of this project which are coordinated by the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce (MCI) have been slow to start, others, particularly those
implemented by the MANR, have shown satisfactory progress. The export
marketing adviser has been selected, and implementation of the marketing
components is expected to proceed as envisaged.
2.20      Feasibility work is scheduled to be completed in early 1983 for the
Southern Conveyor project, a project which will integrate available water
resources of southern parts of Cyprus by developing 70 Mm3 of water p.a. for
agricultural, industrial and domestic use. The project is designed to



- 7 -
transfer surplus water from the southwest to the southeast areas which suffer
from water shortages, part of which is threatened by sea water intrusion in
its aquifer.  At the request of the Government, the Bank is assisting in the
review of feasibility work which is expected to materialize into a lending
operation in FY84.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.  Project Loc ation
3.01      The Khrysokhou project area is located in the northwestern part of
Cyprus around the town of Polis (IBRD Map No. 16930).  The irrigation service
boundaries encompass 2,000 ha net area in the Khrysokhou River valley and the
coastal plain wnich is bordered by the Khrysokhou Bay on the north. The
Evretou Dam, to be constructed on the Stavros tis Psokas River, is located
about 2 km upstream from its confluence with the Khrysokhou River, which is
about 5 km inland from the estuary.  The catchment area of the Khrysokhou
River above diversion is 22 km2 and that of the Stavros tis Psokas River
above the Evretou Dam is 91 km2.
B. Climate
3.02      The project area has a typical Mediterranean climate with hot, dry
summers and mild winters. Average rainfall is about 600 mm annually but
varies from 450 mm in the coastal plain to 650 nun in the upper watersheds.
Eighty-five percent of the total rainfall occurs in the winter season
(November to March). Inter-annual variations of rainfall are very high; the
annual extremes as recorded are 200 mm and 800 mm. Average monthly relative
humidity in the project area varies between a minimum of 50% in the summ,er and
more than 80% during the winter. The climatic conditions are particularly
favorable for growing eariy varieties of vegetableE, lemons, grapes and
deciduous fruits.
C.  Topography, Soils and Gelog
3.03      1pr2h    The irrigation service area is located on the coastal
plain and along the river valley rising gently from the sea to altitudes of up
to 100 ra. Slopes are generally smooth on the coastal plain and along the
valley (1-4%) but are somewhat steeper across the valley.
3.04      Soils.  Soil surveys and land suitability classification studies (at
scale 1:25,000) were carried out by the Department of Agriculture (DA) on the
2,000 ha which comprise the project area. Major soil types are either
alluvial or colluvial, and the classification suitability for irrigation is
based on a local system which is generally in line with that of the US Bureau
of Reclamation (USBR). According to this classification, about 95% of the
soils in the project area are considered suitable for irrigation and falls in
classes I-III according to criteria of the USBR. Except where terraces have
to be made on the steep slopes on a smlall section of the area, only a little



leveling or smoothing of farm lands would be required for the proposed
sprinkler and drip irrigation applications.
3.05      The soils are mostly deep to medium with light-to-medium texture.
Spatial variation of the amount of CaCO  in the soils would determine the
cropping pattern in the area with citrus and avocados growing only in areas
where calcium carbonate content is low. The soils in general are favorable
for the production of almost all fruits and vegetables,
3.06      Geology.  The geology of western Cyprus is dominated by the Troodos
Igneous Complex. In the upper watershed, layers of clays, chalks and marls
ranging in age from late Cretaceous to Pliocene overlie the igneous rocks.
Pleistocene and Holocene sands and gravels form fans and terraces along the
coast and in the river valleys.
3.07      At the dam site, the strata of ridges comprise an alternating
succession of limestone, chalk, chalky marl and siltstone underlain by
bentonic clays. The bed rock does not contain bentonic clays. In the river
bed, about 30 m deep, buried channel comprising coarse sand and gravel with
volcanic and chalk cobbles exists under the invert.
D. Land Resources, Use and Tenure
3.08      Presently, about 230 ha in the proposed project area are under
irrigation from wells and boreholes, the most important crops being young
citrus (about 160 ha) and vegetables (abouit 35 ha). Smaller irrigated areas
are planted to deciduous fruits, table grapes and bananas. About 1,770 ha are
presently under rainfed crops, mainly cereals (more than 800 ha) and, to a
lesser extent, fodder crops, legumes and almonds.
3.09      Agricultural land within the project area is almost entirely
privately owned. Landownership is characterized by the preponderance of small
holdings and their high degree of fragmentation. The average plot size is
about 0.7 ha with 50% of the farmers having four or more plots per farm. A
summary of farm-size data for the project area is given below:
Table 3.1. Farm Sizes and Their Distribution
Farm Size    Number                                               Average Farm
Class     of Farms   % of Total   Area Farmed   % of Total          Size
--(ha)---                             --- ha)----                 ----(ha)----
0-1.3        230           36            160             8           0.68
1.3-5.3        295           46            760            38           2.68
5.3-13.3       100           16            760            38           7.74
> 13.3         15            2            320            16         19.68
Total        640          100          2,000           100           3.14
Source. Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Feasibility Report, Main Report.



-  -
E. Existing Infrastructure
3.10      The town of Polis lies in the middle of the project area and is
under the administrative jurisdiction of the Paphos district. Polis is
connected by asphalt roads with Paphos and the major villages in the project
area. Earth roads provide access to the existing farmlands. Power from the
national grid is available in all villages, and these can easily be connected
to the proposed pumping stations. The main source for domestic water supply
is groundwater which is pumped and piped to all major villages. Telegraph,
telephone and postal services are available at Polis. The area is presently
served by the international airport at Larnaca. A new airport is being
constructed at Paphos which is scheduled for completion in 1983/84 and will
have facilities for international airlines and wide-body jets to operate. All
administrative departments of the Government have offices at Paphos which are
coordinated and administered by the District Officer. The Department of
Agriculture (DA) and the Water Development Department (WDD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) have suboffices in the town of Polis.
3.11      The existing irrigation system in the project area comprises spate
diversions to lands along the river banks and groundwater pumping units which
are scattered in the area. One main groundwater irrigation scheme recently
constructed by the Government has a battery of five wells from where water is
pumped to four elevated concrete tanks for distribution to about 200 ha of
farmlands (240 ha gross area) within the boundaries of the project area.
F. Supporting Services
Agricultural Research
3.12      The MANR is the main public institution dealing with agriculture in
Cyprus and the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) is the main agency for
agricultural research. The ARI has its headquarters in Nicosia with several
experiment stations distributed in the country according to major agricultural
zones. Two of these stations are located at Akhelia in the Paphos district in
the southwest part of the country and about 40 km from the project area. Both
stations are conducting applied horticultural research geared to solving
production problems in the Paphos district and on the same crops grown in the
project area, thus precluding the need to establish a special research station
under the project. Research programs undertaken at ARI and the Akhelia
research stations include introduction of new fruit crops with commercial
potential as passion fruit, kiwi, mango and guava. Experimentation with
energy and water saving techniques constitutes an integral part of the
country's research program, particularly with production of off-season
vegetables under controlled environmental conditions.
Agricultural Extension
3.13      The DA of the MANR is responsible for undertaking extension
activities in the country. The extension service is comprised of five
District Agricultural Offices at Nicosia, Limassol, Paphos, Larnaca and
Famagusta. Within these districts, 10 Agricultural Centers serve groups of



- 10 -
villages of which four are in the Nicosia district, three in Paphos, two in
Limassol and one in Famagusta,  Each Agricultural Center usually has one to
three assistant agricultural officers and several agricultural assistants who
deal with specialized topics of agricultural production.  Towns and villages
are subdivided into 30 Agricultural Beats. The number of villages in each
beat ranges from four to 24 depending on the number of farmers and type of
agriculture (rainfed or irrigated). Each beat officer, who is a college
graduate, serves about 1,500 farmers (including part-time farmers).  The
project area is a part of the Paphos district and presently has one beat
officer.
3.14      Farmers' training in the Paphos district is carried out at the
Paphos Training Center located near the Paphos Irrigation Project.
Specialists at the Akhelia Research Station, extension personnel, MANR staff
and ARI research workers are in close contact with farmers and are involved in
the training programs at the Paphos Training Center as well as other centers
in the country. During the 1981-82 season, the Paphos Training Center offered
40 short-term courses (1-14 days) in a variety of topics including crop
production, plant protection and irrigation. The application of energy and
water saving techniques is awarded special attention. In addition, several
courses in farm mechanization, use of machinery and their maintenance have
been offered. The number of participants varies according to the topic with
an average of about 30 participants per course.
Credit
3.15      Agricultural, Credit   Institutional credit for agriculture is mainly
provided by the Government through the Loan Commissioners (LC) and the
cooperative system, the latter mostly consisting of village-based Cooperative
Credit Societies (CCS) and the Cooperative Central Bank (CCB).
3.16      The LC consist of the Minister of Finance (Chairman) and six members
including the Directors-General. of the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural
Resources, Communication and Works, and Interior and three independent
persons. LC funds are mostly derived from annual budgetary allocations,
certain revolving funds and borrowings from government-provided funds, the
Social Insurance Fund, etc. It lends money, among other purposes, for
government-sponsored agricultural development projects and programs. The
facilities of the CCB are used by LC for their agricultural lending
operations.  Other funds are provided to the CCB for financing development
programs under its own responsibility or the CCB is used as a fiscal agent for
distribution to and recover) of loans from farmers. In the latter case, the
loan requests are received and technically assessed by the staff of the DA
while the financial evaluation is done by the CCB. For its services the CCB
receives a comnmission of 2,0%. Individual loans are approved by the LC
directly. All loans issued with LC funds are secured by irrnovable property
or, in the case of displaced persons, by government guarantee and carry
interest at 7% p.a., which is slightly negative considering the present
inflation rate of 8%.
3.17      Short-term credit recuirements are generally provided by the CCS
system.  Of these, there are four in the project area.  The system in general



- 11 -
has substantial liquidity, for deposits have been increasing faster than
lending. Deposits are presently earning interest between 5.5% and 6.5%
depending on maturity.
3.18      The CCB is basically an apex financing bank for its shareholders
which are marketing, supply and credit cooperatives. Its capitalization
excludes government funding and CCB's lending comes mostly from deposits, as
well as LC funds for specific government-sponsored programs. The nearest CCB
branch office is located in Paphos.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Brief Description
4.01      The proposed project is in line with the central elements of the
Government's agricultural policy, and its main objectives are (1) to expand
the irrigated area; (ii) intensify agricultural production; and (iii) increase
agricultural exports and foreign exchange earnings. The proposed project
would comprise an area of 2,000 ha located in a relatively isolated and
underdeveloped part of the island. Employment opportunities in the project
area are presently limited, and nearly half of the farming population needs to
supplement farm income by engaging in employment elsewhere. The proposed
project will be a direct benefit to about 3,500 persons and generate
additional benefits in the fruit and vegetable marketing infrastructure.
4.02      The proposed project will comprise the following components:
(A)  IrriLation
(i) Evretou Dam: The proposed Evretou Dam will be of the zoned
embankment type with rockfill shells, earth core, graded
filters and a diaphragm wall. The crest length of the dam
will be 250 m and the maximum height of the embankment
71.0 m. The catchment area above the dam is 90.8 km2 which
will generate an average annual flow volume of 13.0 Mm3.
The live storage capacity of this reservoir is 23 Mm3 which
will carry over surplus water of wet years in storage for
irrigation in the dry years.
(ii) Conveyor System: The main conveyor system comprises about
16.5 km of ductile iron pipelines ranging in diameters from
900 mm to 200 mm, three storage ponds and two break pressure
tanks. In addition, a diversion structure will be provided
to divert and regulate flows from the upper Khrysokhou River
for supplementing irrigation supplies from the Evretou
reservoir.
(iii) Irrigation Distribution System: This comprises a network of
asbestos cement and PVC buried pipes designed to deliver



- 12 -
under gravity flow 7,100 m3/ha/year with a peak demand of
1,470 m3/ha during the month of July. The system includes
necessary valves, hydrants and meters to deliver water on
demand at each hydrant outlet appropriately sized to deliver
the aforementioned peak demand. Adequate provision has been
made in the project for construction of farm roads.
(iv) Groundwater Development: In addition to five tubewells
already installed in the Khrysokhou gravel aquifer under the
existing government irrigation scheme of 200 ha (para 3.11),
eight tubewells ranging in depths of 80-100 m with an average
capacity of 15 I/s each will be installed to meet shortages
of surface water for irrigation during dry years. Total
groundwater abstraction capacity in the system will be about
2 Mm3 p.a.
(v) On-farm System: The application of water to the fields will
be accomplished by mini sprinklers (45% of the area) and drip
irrigation (55% of the area) for the proposed cropping
pattern of fruits and vegetables. An application efficiency
of 80% was assumed in the design of the system. Credit will
be provided to the farmers by the Government for on-farm
irrigation systems and investment in planting of orchards.
(B) Management and Administration
(i) Staffing: The project's management staff will consist of:
- Project Manager
- Deputy Project MIanager for Engineering
- Deputy Project Manager for Agriculture
In addition, adequate numbers of engineering and agricultural
support staff are available in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MANR) and will be appointed to project
implementation positions as required.
(ii) Monitoring and Evaluation Unit: A Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit (MEU) for all major agricultural investment projects
including irrigation will be established and attached to
MANR's headquarters. Funds for such a unit have been
included in the Government's 1983 budget, and the unit will
consist of an Engineer, Agriculturist and Agricultural
Economist. This unit will also be responsible for monitoring
and evaluation of the Khrysokhou Irrigation Project (KIP).
(iii) Facilities:
(a) Buildings: Instead of constructing a new building, it
was decided that an existing government building at
Polis should be refurbished for use as the project



- 13 -
office during construction and for the agricultural
services during subsequent operation. The contractors'
field office at the Evretou dam site will be retained
for use by the engineering section for operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the project after completion of the
dam.
(b) Transportation: Provision has been made in the cost
estimate for two sedans and six 4-wheel-drive Land
Rover/Land Cruiser-type vehicles for use by the project
management and the support staff. The cGntractor will
provide transport for the consultants on the supervision
of the dam under Bill No. 1 (General and Preliminary
Item) of the proposed construction contract.
B. Detailed Features
4.03      The project is designed to store surface water, abstract groundwater
divert and deliver the available supplies for irrigation on demand. The
system is shown schematically on World Bank Chart No. 24569.
Evretou Dam
4.04      The dam will be of the embankment type with a vertical earthen core
in the center flanked by filter zones and rockfill shells. A vertical
diaphragm wall at the bottom of the core and extending down to the bed rock
will provide a barrier against subsoil flow through gravel strata beneath the
dam. The embankment slopes on the upstream and the downstream will be 1.9
horizontal to 1 vertical. The maximum height of the dam at the lowest spot
will be about 71 m, and the reservoir with a freeboard of 4.5 m will have a
gross storage capacity of 25 Mm3 (live capacity = 23 Mm3). The spillway
will be an open chute/flip bucket-type structure and designed to safely pass
300 m3/s during a Probable Maximum Flood event peaked to 690 m3/s which
will generate a total volume of 13.7 Mm3 of flow.
4.05      A straight concrete-lined tunnel through the left abutment will be
used for diversion during the construction stage and subsequently the same
conduit will carry the bottom outlet and irrigation pipeline as part of the
outlet works. The designs of the dam and the appurtenant structures have been
reviewed by a panel of experts who have found that the geological conditions
at the dam site are safe under the prevailing seismic conditions for the
proposed structures and that availability of materials required for
construction will not be a problem.
Conveyor System
4.06      Upper Khrysokhou River Diversion.  A diversion structure will be
constructed on the Khrysokhou River near Yiolou at about 197 m average sea
level from where a 500 mm diameter pipe will convey water to the main conveyor
at Skoulli. The total length of the pipeline will be about 7.5 km. The
average annual water yield of the river at the diversion site from 22 km2



- 14 
catchment area is 5 Mm3. The structure and the conveyor will be sized to
divert up to 2.5 Mm3 annually for irrigation.
4.07      Main Conveyor and B c           The system to be constructed for the
conveyance of water will include 6.82 km of 900 mm diameter MaLin pipeline;
1.60 km of 600 mm diameter West Branch pipeline; and 0.72 km of 600 mm and
200 mm diameter East Branch pipeline. All pipelines will be buried conduits
of ductile iron and will deliver water from the Evretou Dam and Upper
Khrysokhou River diversion to three storage ponds (KEL, KWL and KWU) and two
break pressure tanks (KR and KEU) for distribution to the irrigation service
area. The storage capacities of the Khrysokhou East Lower Pond (KEL),
Khrysokhou West Lower Pond (KWL) and the Khrysokhou West Upper Pond (KWU) will
be 9,450 m3, 113400 m3 and 11,400 m3 respectively.  The ponds will be
lined with cement concrete and a buried membrane to prevent seepage losses.
4.08      The sizes of the ponds are such that the peak irrigation water
demand of the irrigation service area to be supplied from each pond from
6 a.m. to 10 p.m. will be met from continuous supply from the reservoir and up
to 22-hour pumping from the groundwater. Necessary filters will be installed
at the outlets from the tanks and the ponds to prevent clogging of the
distribution pipelines.
Irrigation Distribution System
4.09      Irrig       N      .  From the storage ponds, water will be
distributed to hydrants, each serving one or several farms in about a 3-ha
irrigation unit, through a network of distribution pipelines. The network
will consist of buried Class 15 asbestos cement pipes sized to deliver a
pressure regulated discharge of 2 1/s/ha on demand at each hydrant. Water
meters will be installed at each farm inlet except where one hydrant serves
only one farm in which case the meter will be provided at the hydrant outlet.
The distribution sector from the hydrant outlet to the metered farm inlet will
mostly be buried plastic (PVC) pipes.
Groundwater Development
4.10      To supplement surface water resources and the existing groundwater
schemes, deep groundwater resources will be developed to extract annually up
to 1.5 Mm3 from the limestone aquifer in the region between Neokhor-ion and
Skoulli. For that purpose eight tubewells ranging in depth between 80 m and
100 m and delivering about 15 l/s discharge each will be installed. Water
from tubewells will be delivered to storage tanks from where it will be used
in conjunction with the surface water. The existing five tubewells of the
government scheme (para 3.11), which are pumping water from the Khrysokhou
River gravel aquifer, will also be integrated into the overall water supply
system of the project totaling an annual abstraction of about 2 Mm3 from
groundwater.
On-farm Systems
4.11      On-farm Works.  These include (a) pipelines for conveyance within
the farm; (b) installation of mini sprinklers and drip irrigation; (c) land



- 15 -
smoothing, and vegetable and orchard planting; and (d) farm roads.
Implementation of these works will be done on about 1,800 ha of the service
area. On the remaining 200 ha of the existing Government scheme (para 3.11),
the works will be upgraded to the criteria established for the whole project
area.
4.12      In line with farmers' preference and existing agricultural practices
which are successful in Cyprus, mini sprinklers are expected to be installed
for some of the fruit trees on about 45% of the area.  On the remaining 55% of
the area, drip irrigation will be provided for vegetables, avocados and some
citrus crops. The mini sprinkler irrigation system will be designed to
deliver 120-150 1/hour under an operating pressure of two atmospheres.  The
drip irrigation system will be designed to operate under one atmosphere
pressure and emit a discharge of 2-7 1/hour.  Polyethylene pipes (heavy duty)
will be used for both the main and secondary lines of the irrigation systems.
Screen filters and fertilizer tanks will be installed at the farm inlets.
4.13      Smoothing and Planting.  Since all irrigation in the area will be
either by sprinklers or by drip, special land leveling or grading of farms
will not be required. However, in certain areas slopes will be cut to terrace
the farmland. Also, major surface irregularities will be evened out for
proper installation and operation of the irrigation works and drainage of
surface water. The establishment cost of fruit trees and vegetables has also
been included in the project costs for on-farm works; these crops will cover
about 75% and 25% respectively of the total irrigation area. Adequate
quantities of high-quality fruit seedlings are available at reasonable prices
from government nurseries in Paphos and other nearby areas.
Staffing
4.14      The Project Manager will be a suitably qualified graduate civil
engineer with substantial experience in design, construction and operation of
irrigation development projects, There will be two Deputy Project Managers,
one in charge of engineering and the other responsible for the agricultural
aspects of the project, each having considerable experience in his respective
discipline. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) a
qualified and experienced Project Manager acceptable to the Bank will be
employed; and (b) two qualified and experienced Deputies will be employed; and
the appointment of all thrLe will be a condition for effectiveness of the loan
(para 7.01).  There will be two teams of civil engineers, technicians,
surveyors and draftsmen, one for design and one for construction supervision
of engineering works in the project other than dam construction (paras 4.15
and 4.21), Agricultural staff will consist of agricultural officers and
assistants for the design and implementation of on-farm irrigation works and
for the agricultural extension service.
4.15      DeLailed design and contract documents for the construction of the
Evretou Dam have already been completed (para 4.17). For its construction
supervision, the British consulting firm of Sir William Halerow and Partners,
in association with the Cypriot firm of A. Parastitis and Associates, has been
appointed and will assign a Construction Manager and a Design Engineer for a



- 16 -
total of 84 man-months at about US$8,000 per man-month inclusive of salaries,
fees, overhead, international travel and subsistence. Terms and conditions of
their appointment were reviewed during negotiations and found acceptable. The
consultants will be supported by a team of Cypriot technicians for a total of
312 man-months. The dam construction unit will function under the direct
control of the Project Manager. Project management and the dam construction
unit will be supported by sufficient administrative, accounting and
secretarial staff. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
competent staff in adequate numbers will be appointed to implement the project
(para 7.01).
C. Status of Design and Engineering
4.16      The site for the Evretou Dam, which is the major component of the
project, was identified in 1969, and an engineering report was prepared by the
UNDP in 1974 in which alternative regimes for water storage at that site were
drawn. A feasibility study, funded by the UNDP, was carried out during the
period April 1979 - July 1981 jointly by the FAO and the WDD for the KIP
covering an area of 3,100 ha of the lowlands including the Evretou Dam. Tne
FAO/CP assisted in preparation of the final project report based on the
feasibility study. The project scope was reduced during appraisal by limiting
it to the Khrysokhou River basin only. Simulation studies to determine the
adequacy of the available water resources for 2,000 ha have been done and the
results incorporated in the project design.
4.17      Evretou Dam.  A working paper was prepared by the FAO in July 1980
on the proposed dam and main conveyors in the Polis-Khrysokhou area discussing
alternative dam sites, locations of structures and detailed geology of the
area. Based on this study and the subsequently completed feasibility study,
the Government, assisted by the FAO/CP, with the help of the British
consulting firm of Sir William Halcrow and Partners, has completed final
designs and tender documents for the construction of the Evretou Dam. A
design report was prepared by the consultants in November 1982. The designs
were reviewed by a panel of experts during preparation and then on completion.
4.18      Other Engineering Works.  The preparation of detailed designs and
tender documents for the irrigated infrastructure of 800 ha in the Khrysokhou
valley was carried out by WDD staff with the assistance of a senior consultant
from Rendel, Palmer and Tritton of the UK between July 1981 and March 1982.
As for the detailed design of the first 9 km of the conveyor system,
connecting branches, storage ponds and tanks, it was carried out by WDD staff
and an engineer from Sir Malcolm MacDonald's Consulting Engineers (UK based).
The designs of the main conveyors and the irrigation network for Section IA
comprising 818 ha were updated by the WDD using consultants' studies, and the
final report and a bill of quantities were prepared in March 1982. The
designs for the Upper Khrysokhou River diversion, and the tubewell schemes and
irrigation network for the remaining project area which were prepared during
the feasibility study will be updated in April 1984 well ahead of the
scheduled construction of these components. Provision for an adequate design
team for that work has been made in the project (paras 4.14 and 4.15). The
designs of on-farm works have been standardized for the different types of
installations and the sizes of the plots. These will be adopted for



- 17 -
implementation by the farmers under the guidance of the staff of the MANR
provided in the project (para 4.14).
4.19      The layouts for various engineering works for designs were made on
orthophoto maps at a scale of 1:2,500 with contours and 50 m level grids from
1:10,000 aerial photography controlled on the ground by 1:5,000 topographic
maps. For design of the dam, detailed topographic maps were prepared for the
locations of structures on 1:500 scale. The design documents were reviewed
during appraisal, and it was found that sufficient details and data are
available for tendering of contracts and completion of major civil works.
4.20      Safety of Dam.  The Panel of Experts, which was designated by the
Government to review the plans and designs and provide guidance during the
construction of the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos dams (Loan 1658-CY), was also
assigned to review the designs of the Evretou Dam during preparation and on
finalization. The Government has appointed the same panel to the supervision
of the Evretou Dam construction. Assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that a Panel of Experts acceptable to the Bank will be
formally designated for the Evretou Dam to inspect the dam at least twice a
year during construction; once on the completion of the dam; annually for the
next five years; and, thereafter, every five years (para 7.01).
4.21      Consultants.  Final designs and tender documents for the Evretou
Dam, the main conveyor system and the irrigation network were prepared by the
Government with the help of international consultants (paras 4.17-4.19). The
Government has well-qualified and experienced engineers and supervisors in the
MANR for the implementation of works without need for international experts
except construction of the Evretou Dam. The Government has appointed the
engineering consultants (para 4.15) to head the dam construction supervision
team drawn out of competent and well-trained WDD staff of the MANR.
D. Water Demand, Supply and Quality
4.22      Water Demand.  The irrigation water demand was based on consumptive
use estimated by the Blaney-Criddle method, the crop coefficients for the main
crops proposed for the project area, and effective rainfall. The climatic
data required for computing the water demand were obtained from the recording
station at Polis. The crop coefficients were obtained from the Department of
Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Institute of the MANR. The
effective rainfall was based on criteria recommended by the US Department of
Agriculture. An overall irrigation efficiency, including conveyance and field
application, was assumed as 72%.
4.23      The net irrigation water requirement of crops obtained from 20
stochastically generated series of data each of 49-year duration for the
proposed cropping pattern on average annual basis is 5,120 m3/ha.  The
corresponding total requirement at the source of water supply is 7,100 m3/ha
or 14.2 Mm3/year. These do not include water for leaching of salts for
which surplus water from rainfall will be retained on the fields. The
non-irrigation demand for municipal and industrial water supply for the
project area is about 1.0 Mm3.



- 18 -
4.24      Water Supply.  'The main sources of water supply in the system are
(a) the Evretou Reservoir with an average annual yield of 12.8 Mm3;
(b) diversion from the Upper Khrysokhou River of up to 2.5 Mm3/year; and
(c) 13 tubewells including five tubewells of an existing government scheme for
abstractions from the Khrysokhou valley gravel aquifer and limestone aquifer
(average yield = 2 Mm3). All of these resources will be integrated within
the water storage and conveyance systems and will be available for irrigation
supply in the distribution system. The system operation to study the adequacy
of water supply for the project was done on a computer-based simulation model
shown schematically on World Bank Chart No. 24569.
4.25      Results of two most representative series studied on the simulation
model are given in the Project File. Those results for 98 years of two
49-year series of the project simulation study show that on an annual basis
(a) irrigation water demands would be met fully during 80% of the years and
(b) the deficits by volume during the remaining 20% of the years would be
10-60% of the total irrigation demand, In such years irrigation priority will
be given to perennial crops, and the area under annual crops will be adjusted
accordingly.
4.26      Water Quality.  Studies conducted by the WDD revealed that water
quality of the main sources is as follows:
(a) Surface water: The maximum conductivity of water of the Stavros tis
Psokas River at Evretou has been recorded between 0.6 nmh-os/cm and
1.0 mmhos/cm over a wide range of discharges. The conductivity of
the Upper Khrysokhou River water is somewhat higher but within the
range acceptable for irrigation.
(b) Groundwater: The maximum electrical conductivity values of
groundwater in the Khrysokhou River gravel aquifer and in the
limestone aquifer from where abstractions are proposed to be made
vary between 1.0 mmhos/cm and 3.0 mmhos/cm. This water is to be
used in conjunction with surface water which is generally of
excellent quality. Therefore, there will be, normally, no
limitation on its use for irrigation of the proposed cropping
pattern. However, the draw down and the salinity levels of the
aquifer should be regularly monitored to permit taking suitable
measures in time to preclude intrusion of seawater in the coastal
plain.
(c) Drainage: The topography of the project area allows gravity
drainage of the surplus surface water through natural depressions to
the sea. In project development, water will be metered in a closed
system and applied for irrigation by drip and sprinkler metiods.
Therefore, no wastage and surface water disposal problems are
foreseen. The surplus capacity in the irrigation system in the
non-peak seasons and the rainfall are expected to provide any
leaching which may become essential due to the continuous use of
sprinkler or drip irrigation systems. Monitoring of the need to
take such measures would also be undertaken.



- 19 -
E. Cost Estimates
4.27      Cost estimates are based on the quantities of work for each
component computed by the consultants and the WDD and reviewed during
appraisal. The unit costs were based on detailed cost analysis and
information obtained of similar works recently tendered in Cyprus as of
December 1982 adjusted to April 1983 prices. A factor of 10-15% was used for
the physical contingencies for various civil works components depending upon
the level of design. The price contingencies, both for the local and foreign
components, were computed by applying annual rates of 7.5% for 1984 and 6.0%
each for 1985, 1986 and 1987. Total costs thus estimated are C£ 22,036,000
(US$46.28 million) including physical and price contingencies. The foreign
exchange component is CZ 12,640,000 (US$26.54 million) or 57.4% of the total
costs. The project costs are free of taxes and duties as these are not levied
on goods and services destined for public projects. The cost estimates are
summarized below and shown in detail in Annex 1. A proposed schedule of
expenditures and phasing is given in Annex 2.



Table 4.1; Total Project Costs /1
Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total         Exchane
------(C  Million) ------      ------(US$ Million)------
Evretou Dam                                  3.191    4.664       7.855        6.701    9.794    16.495            59.3
Upper Khrysokhou Diversion                   0.187    0.313       0.500        0.393    0.657       1.050          62.5
Conveyor & Branches                          0.617    1.082       1.699        1.294    2.272       3.566          63.6
Irrigation Network                           0.722    1.505       2.227        1.516    3.161       4.677          67.5
Groundwater Development Schemes              0.086    0.167       0.253        0.181    0.351       0.532          65.6
On-farm Works                                1.444    1.671       3.115        3.033    3.509       6.542          53.6   1
Land Acquisition                             0.170       -        0.170        0.357       -        0.357           -     0
Project Management                           0.702    0.242       0.944        1.474    0.508       1.982          25.7
Evretou Dam Construction Supervision         0.295    0.290       0.585        0.620    0.609       1.229          49.6
Subtotal                                7.413    9.934    17.347        15.569   20.861    36.430             57.2
Physical Contingencies                       0.636    0.901       1.537        1.336    1.892       3.228          58.6
Price Contingencies                          1.347    1.788       3.135        2.829    3.755       6.584          57.0
Front End Fee (0.25%)                          -       0.017      0.017          -       0.035      0.035         100.0
Total Project Costs                     9.396   12.640    22.036        19.734   26.543    46.277             57.4
/1  Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 21 -
F. Financing
4.28      The proposed Bank loan of US$16.0 million equivalent would be
repayable over 15 years with 3 years of grace at the standard variable
interest rate and will finance 60% of foreign exchange costs or 34% of the
total costs of the project. The Republic of Cyprus as the Borrower will
contribute US$27.14 million equivalent or 59% of the total project costs
including the remaining 40% of foreign exchange costs. The beneficiaries
will) by providing labor for establishment of on-farm irrigation works and 25%
of the investment of on-farm irrigation systems, contribute 7% of the total
project costs. The project financing plan will thus be as follows:



- 22 -
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan /1
Beneficiaries    Government            IBRD          Total
Project Component                  Amount       %    Amount      %    Amount       %    Amount
-------                US$ Million)---------------------
Evretou Dam                                 -        -      10.59      51    10.10      49    20.69
Upper Khrysokhou Diversion                  -        -       1.02      67     0.50      33      1.52
Conveyor & Branches                         -        -       2.45      57     1.85      43      4.30
Irrigation Network                          -        -      4.14      66      2.10      34     6.24
Groundwater Development Scheme              -        -       0.56      74     0.20      26      0.76
On-tarm Works:
Investment                              1.84       25     5.50 /2  75        -        -      7.34
Incremental production costs            1.30      100      -        -        _        _      1.30
Land Acquisition                            -        -       0.43    100       -        -      0.43
Project Management                          -        -       1.79      78     0.50      22      2.29
Evretou Dam Construction
Supervision                                 -        -       0.62     45      0.75      55      1.37
Front End Fee                               -        -       0.04    100       -        -       0.04
Total                                   3.14        7    27.14      59    16.00       34    46.28
/1 Physical and price contingencies included in each component; discrepancies due to
rounding.
/2 Investment credit of US$5.5 million will be supported by beneficiaries in the form of
credit financed initially by Government.



- 23 -
G. Procurement
4.29      The construction of the Evretou Dam and appurtenant works
(US$20.69 million), Upper Khrysokhou diversion (US$1.52 million), the conveyor
system (US$4.3 million) and the groundwater schemes (US$0.76 million) will be
done by contracts awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB).
The materials for construction of the irrigation network (US$2.66 million)
will be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under Bank Guidelines (LIT). Agreement on the
above procedures was reached during negotiations. The vehicles
(US$0.20 million) and office equipment for the project would be procured
through ICB. Consultants for supervision of dam construction were selected in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.
4.30      The construction of the irrigation network (US$3.58 million) and
refurbishing of the existing government building for the project office
(US$0.13 million) will be done by local competitive bidding (LCB) or carried
out by the appropriate government department. The installation of on-farm
works (US$8.64 million) will be done by the farmers under supervision of the
WrDD. Since this component is to be financed by the Government through credits
to the farmers, the procurement of the required materials (US$5.39 million)
will be done by LCB.
4.31      The allocations proposed above show that, out of the total
investment cost (excluding land acquisition and consultants) of
US$42.37 million, procurement through ICB will account for US$29.93 million,
through LIT US$0.20 million, and through LCB US$12.35 million.  The financing
by the Bank of these procurement items will be US$14.75 million under !CB,
US$0.2 million under LIT, and no Bank funds would finance LCB.  The bidding
documents, including technical specifications for all works and supplies to be
financed by the Bank and exceeding US$250,000, will be approved by the Bank
before issuance of tenders and awarding the contracts. Assurances to that
effect were obtained during negotiations (para 7.01).
4.32      The Government will make these procurements through ICB and LIT in
accordance with the current Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
loans. Domestic preference would apply to goods manufactured locally. The
procurement procedures applied by the Government in Cyprus for LCB were
reviewed during appraisal and found satisfactory. The proposed procurement
plans are summarized as follows:



- 24 -
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Plans
Procurement Method                   Total
Project Component         ICB       LIT    LCB    Other  N.A. /1    Cost
(us$----------(US  Million)--------------
Evretou Dam                 20.69       -      -        -      -         20.69
(10.10)     -       -       -       -       (10.10)
Upper Khrysokhou
Diversion                  1.52       -      -        -      -          1.52
(0.50)     -       -       -       -        (0.50)
Conveyor & Branches          4.30       -      -        -      -          4.30
(1.85)     -      -        -      -         (1.85)
Irrigation Network:
- Materials                  2.66       -      -        -      -          2.66
(2.10)     -       -       -       -        (2.10)
- Civil Works                 -         -     3.58      -      -          3.58
_        _- (   )                          (-)
Groundwater Development
Schemes                    0.76       -      -        -      -         0.76
(0.20)     -       -       -      -         (0.20)
On-farm Works                 -         -     8.64      -      -          8.64
-=              ( -  -)         -(-)
Land Acquisition              -         -      -        -    0.43         0.43
- *      _                     (-)         (-)
Consultants                   -         -      -      3.33     -          3.33
-        -      -    (1.05)    -          (1.05)
Project Office:
- Building                    -         -     0.13      -      -          0.13
-           C-~()                      ( -    -)
- Supplies                    -       0.20     -        -      -          0.20
-     (0.20)    -        -      -         (0.20)
Total                  29.93    0.20   12.35   3.33   0.43         46.24  /2
(14.75)  (0.20)   (-)   (1.05)   (-)        (16.00)
Note; Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
/1 "n.a" means not applicable.
75 Excluding front end fee.
H. Disbursements
4.33      The proposed Bank loan of US$16.00 million would be disbursed for
project costs, exclusive of all import duties and taxes, as follows:
(a) Construction of the Evretou Dam
- 85% of foreign expenditure.
(b) Construction of the Upper Khrysokhou Diversion
- 50% of foreign expenditure.



- 25 -
(c)  Construction of the Conveyor and Branches
- 75% of foreign expenditure.
(d)  Irrigation Network
- 100% of foreign expenditure on purchase of materials and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost).
(e)  Groundwater Development Schemes
- 40% of foreign expenditure.
(f)  Project Office Supplies
- 100% of foreign expenliture on purchase of vehicles and office
equipment
(g)  Consultants
- 30% of expenditures for consultant services for Evretou Dam
construction supervision.
4.34      Assuming effectiveness of the proposed loan is August 31, 1983, the
estimated annual disbursement would be as follows:
Table 4.4: Estimated Disbursements /1
Bank FY        FY84       FY85        FY86         FY87         FY88         FY89
------------------------(US$ Million) ------------------------
Annual           3.00        5.00         5.00         1.50        1.00         0.50
Cumulative       3.00        8.00        13.00       14.50        15.50        16.00
/1  It is expected that disbursements will be completed by June 30, 1989, and
the closing date of the loan will be December 31, 1989.
A tentative disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 3. The Bank's historical
disbursement profiles for Cyprus, covering the period FY71-81, were considered
in formulating the aforementioned estimates. Disbursements for the proposed
project are expected to be faster than the historical ones because the
project's cost estimates and implementation schedule were based on tender
documents and final designs of major works.
I. The Role of Women
4.35      The family farm is characteristic of the agricultural farming system
in Cyprus with the average farmholding consisting of several small and often
widely dispersed plots. Part-time farming is predominant due to the low
income from farming, especially under rainfed conditions prevailing in the



- 26 -
project area. Ihis also results in underemployment thus forcing the male
population to seek employment opportunities in the nearby Paphos area (40 km)
and other urban centers. In those cases the woman often makes important
decisions affecting farm operations while in others the woman commutes for
employment. However, in both cases where farming is the main family
occupation, almost all women significantly contribute to farming, particularly
with fruit and vegetable production. The Government is paying increased
attention to the role of women in agriculture particularly in greenhouse crop
production and is including them in horticultural training programs.
J. Environmental Impact
4.36      The relatively closed irrigation system to be constructed under the
project is not conducive to increasing the mosquito population in the project
area. However, in case of any malaria outbreak in the project area, the
Health Department of Cyprus is adequately equipped to handle it effectively.
The improved irrigation system will help in stabilizing the aquifer and
provide a more assured supply of groundwater. The use of plant protection
chemicals and fertilizers is based on proven applied research and extension
recommendations. Qualified extension staff train farmers and work closely
with them in the safe handling of pesticides and other chemicals according to
labeled recommendations.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Schedule
5.01      The project is proposed to be implemented over a five-year period
starting in August 1983 and ending June 1988 (World Bank Chart No. 24570).
Construction of the Evretou Dam which is the major project component would be
completed by the end of 1986. However, the dam would be completed by
September 1985 to a level that the runoff during the rainy season (September
1985 - March 1986) would be impounded in the reservoir and used for irrigation
in 1986. In order to meet that objective, the Government in consultation
with, but without commitment of financing by, the Bank has initiated
prequalification of contractors for the construction of the dam on which work
is scheduled to start in January 1984. The final phase of project
implementation would comprise completion of on-farm works installations and
construction of groundwater schemes.
B. Project Organization and Management
5.02      The Water Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources is the principal department responsible for planning, design
and execution of government wcter projects although the overall responsibility
for determining water policy rests with the Council of Ministers.  The
Ministry of Interior has legal control over national water resources and also
administers water laws.



- 97
Coordination and Advsor_ Comi
5.03      To integrate government policies as they pertain to the project
policies, a Project Policy and Coordination Committee (PPCC) will be
established and chaired by the Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources with the membership of the Directors-General (or their
representatives) of the Ministries of Interior, Commerce and Industry,
Planning Bureau, and the Directors of the WDD and DA. A secretary to the
committee will be appointed by the WDD.  The PPCC will be responsible for
laying policies that will ensure timely implementation of the project and will
meet, as and when necessary, but not less than once a year.
5.04      At the district level, the overall responsibility for management of
water projects, whether for irrigation or domestic supply, lies with the
District Administrative Officer (District Officer) who reports to the Ministry
of Interior. Each government irrigation project is administered and managed
by a Water Committee composed of the District Officer as Chairman,
representatives of the WDD, DA and two to three members elected from the
project beneficiaries. The Water Committee;
(a)  makes recommendations on the development, conservation, management
and efficient use of water resources;
(b) is responsible for overall management, operation and administration
of the project;
(c) ensures proper regulation and use of water;
(d) sells water at rates decided by the Government and collects water
charges;
(e) prepares the annual budget for the project works showing revenues
and expenditures for operation of the project; and
(f) ensures efficient operation of the project according to sound
agricultural practices.
5.05      Under the project, responsibilities undertaken by the Water
Committee as indicated in para 5.04 above will be assumed by the Project
Advisory Committee (PAC) which will advise the Project Manager in local
affairs and ensure project implementation as envisaged. The PAC will be
chaired by the Paphos District Officer and will include the Project Manager,
WDD, DA District Officers and two farmers' representatives. The Project
Manager will act as secretary of the PAC which will be the focal point for
beneficiaries to address their views on matters such as operation and
maintenance of completed works, water charges and cost recovery.
5.06      The aforementioned proposed organization structure is illustrated in
World Bank Chart No. 24589 and is similar to the effective ones established
under the recently completed Paphos Irrigation Project (Loan 960-CY) and the
ongoing Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project (Loan 1658-CY). 'rhe establishment of



- 28 -
the PPCC and the PAC, with the membership indicated in paras 5.03-5.05, would
be no later than September 30, 1983 or such other date as the Bank may agree
(para 7 01)
PrF2Lct Works
5.97      1'he WDD has be n r4sponsible for tle planniig and iiesign of the
project and would continue to be responsible for completion of designs,
preparation of tender documents, and construction management and supervision
during the implementation stage. Project implementation will be supervised by
a Project Manager assisted by two Deputies, one for engineering and the other
for agricultural aspects. An engineering section comprising a design unit and
a construction unit will be established within the project. The Project
Manager will report directly to the Director of the WDD. The appointment of
the Project Manager and his Deputies will be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para 4.14). The implementation of all major components of the project is
discussed in the following paras 5.08-5.18.
5.08      Evretou Dam.  The final designs and tender documents for the dam
were prepared by Sir William Halcrow engineering consultants of the UK, in
association with the Cypriot firm of A. Prastitis and Associates under the
overall responsibility of the MANR. The same firm has been appointed, in
consultation with the Bank, to supervise the dam construction (paras 4.15 and
4.21). The terms of reference for the consultants have been agreed upon
during negotiations. The consultant will assist and advise the Government on
bid evaluations and contracts' awards actions and be responsible for execution
and construction supervision of all components of the dam.
5.09      Conveyor System, Groundwater Schemes and Irrigation Network.  The
designs and tender documents for the conveyor system and Sector 1A (818 ha) of
irrigation network have already been prepared by the Government (paras 4.16-
4.19). Finalization of designs and preparation of tender documents for the
groundwater schemes, the Upper Khrysokhou River diversion and Sectors lB and
IC (970 ha) of irrigation network and upgrading of the existing government
scheme will be done by the design unit to be establishied under the project.
The administration of cont:-acts under 1CB for the groundwater schemes, the
conveyor system, the Upper Khrysokhou River diversion and the supply of
materials, and under LCB for the construction of the irrigation network will
be done by the Project Manager. The supervision of construction will be done
by the construction unit of the project. The Geological Survey Department of
the MANR will assist the WDD in the design of the groundwater schemes.
On-farm Systems
5.10      The standard designs for on-farn irrigation works have been prepared
by the Government. The detailed designs for each farm will be prepared under
the guidance of the Deputy Project Manager (Agriculture), who will also
supervise construction of the systems by the farmers as well as land
preparation and the establishment of fruit orchards and vegetables. The
Government will provide medium-term credit to the farmers for purchase of
equipment and materials for the on-farm works (paras 4.28 and 5.13).



_ 29 -
Agricultural Research
5.11      Applied agricultural research programs in the project area will be
implemented under the responsibility of the Agricultural Research Institute
(ARI) and its stations in Paphos. Close cooperation betweern the ARI and the
project's extension staff will be maintained, and feedback from farmers on
production problems will be monitored by project management.
Agricultural Extension
5.12      The successful implementation of the envisaged cropping pattern in
the project area will require timely and effective introduction of intensive
horticultural production techniques. Farmers' response to market conditions
and timely adjustment of production planning will depend mainly on information
flow and recommendations by the extension staff. Therefore, the present
extension staff in the project area of one beat officer and two agricultural
assistants will be augmented by an additional beat officer, one specialist in
plant protection and four agricultural assistants. The new staff will be
selected from highly qualified personnel and will be in post no later than
three months before the expected availability of irrigation water from the
project. Assurances were obtained to this effect during negotiations that the
additional extension staff will be appointed no later than January 1, 1986 or
such other date as the Bank may agree (para 7.01).
Credit
5.13      The 640 farmers participating in the project will require
medium-term credit to finance purchase of on-farm irrigation equipment, the
smoothing of their lands and the establishment of orchards. As some of the
farmers have adequate means of their own, as ascertained by a recent survey,
it has been assumed that not more than 75% of these investments will be
financed through medium-term loans, the balance being met through equity
financing. Because of the slow increase in production costs and the expected
profile of net cash flows to the participants, it is considered most unlikely
that incremental production credit will be required during project
implementation (1983-88). The credit requirements during project
implementation are estimated at CZ 2.62 million (US$5.50 million) and will be
supplied entirely from the Government's own resources (paras 4.02, 4.28 and
7.01). It has been assumed that medium-term lending to project participants
will follow existing practices; i.e., loans for the above-mentioned purposes
will be for eight years at 7% interest, with one-year grace for the
principal. All loans will be secured by real estate mortgages except in the
case of displaced persons; the Government guarantees such loans. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will make
available to the LC, as and when needed, such amounts as are required to
assure full development of orchards and vegetable farms established under the
project (para 7.01), and that onlending to farmers will be made on terms and
conditions and under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. The availability
of annual sums will be in accordance with the projected detailed project cost
tables.



- 30 -
5.14      Loan applicaticns by the participants will be made to the District
Agricultural Officer (DAO) generally through art Agricultural Beat Officer
(ABO) who is the local representative of the DA of thne MANR. Loan
applications are forwarded to the DA in Nicosia for approval of their
feasibility. Approved applications are recommended by the Director of the DA
to a loan committee consisting of representatives from DA, the Planning
Bureau, Ministry of Finance, the LC and the Cooperative Central. Bank (CCB) for
final approval.
C.   perat_ion and Maintenance
5.15      The project works including the dam, diversion and conveyance
structures, groundwater schemes and the irrigation distribution systems will
be operated and maintained by the Government through the WDD. The Government
will recover full O&M costs from the beneficiaries along with about 50% of the
initial investment cost over a period of 40 years (para 6.17). O&M of on-farm
irrigation installations will be carried out by the farms under the guidance
of the DA of the MANR. The annual O&M cost at full development is estimated
at about CZ 355,000 or 25 mils/m3 of water delivered for irrigation.
5.16      An O&M section for the project will be created within the WDD which
will be responsible for O&M of all project works. This section will be headed
by a qualified senior engineer and will have an adequate number of engineers,
technicians, and supporting staff and equipment to perform the job. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that before December 31, 1986 (the
fourth year of project implementation) the Government will prepare detailed
O&M manuals for all project works and send those for the Bank's comments;
establish the O&M section; and vest it with necessary executive,
administrative and legal powers to perform its functions (para 7.01).
5.17      The O&M section will be headquartered at the Evretou Dam in the
buildings vacated by the contractor and the supervisory staff on the
completion of construction. The workshops and other facilities constructed by
the contractor at the Evretou Dam will also be retained for O&M. The project
office building at Polis will be used by DA staff for agricultural extension
and operation of the on-farm works.
D. Accounting and Auditing
5.18      Separate accounts for the project will be kept by the WDD and other
agencies involved in project implementation. Such accounts will be audited
annually by the office of the Auditor General of the Ministry of Finance whose
accounting and auditing procedures were proven to be effective under other
Bank-financed projects. Audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months after the closing date of the Cypriot fiscal year, and
assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para 7.01).
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting Procedures
5.19      Independent follow-up of project implementation will be ensured by
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) for all agricultural investments
including irrigation projects in Cyprus which has been established recently



- 31 -
under the MANR and for which operating funds have been included in the 1983
government budget. The MEU will report to the Director General of the MANR
and is composed of an agricultural economist, irrigation engineer and
agriculturist. The MEU will depend primarily on the Project Manager and his
staff for supplying all needed information to perform its functions under the
project. Routine records will be kept on all project actions, programs,
budgets and expenditures by the project's staff. MEU and project's staff will
collect, analyze technical and financial data to evaluate the effects of the
project, and follow up on its progress in comparison with the envisaged
implementation schedule.
5.20      To ensure timely Bank action on project implementation problems
during the construction period, the Project Manager will submit quarterly
progress reports to the Bank through the WDD. In addition, a summary of other
activities and project accounts will be submitted by the WDD on a semester
basis within six months from the end of the reporting period and combined with
the quarterly progress report. The project's draft completion report will be
prepared by the Project Manager and submitted to the Bank through the WDD
within three months of the project's closing date. This report will include
an ex-post economic and technical evaluation of the project using the project
information including reports prepared by the MEU. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations on the proposed aforementioned monitoring, evaluation and
reporting procedures (para 7.01).
F. International Commodit g m
5.21      None of the commodities to be produced under the proposed project is
governed by international commodity agreements, and hence the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projects Department has advised that consultation with
international commodity organizations is not required. It should also be
noted that the increments are relatively small and, especially for tree crops,
will take a long time to reach the expected full development levels,
Consequently, the project's output of commodities is not likely to affect
international prlces.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The primary purpose of the project is to develop presently
underutilized water resources in a rather isolated and relatively
underdeveloped part of the country. It will substantially alleviate present
underemployment in the proposed project area, greatly increase participants'
income, and augment Cyprus' horticultural exports.
A. Agricultural Production
6.02      The project is expected to generate substantial increases in
agricultural production on account of:
(i) an expansion of the irrigated area following the increased
availability of irrigation water (from about 230 ha to 2,000 ha); and



- 32
(ii) a marked shift towards high-value crops following the introduction
of advanced on-farm irrigation systems in conjunction with
intensified extension efforts.
Without the project, the prospects for significant increases in cropping
intensity and aggregate output would be severely constrained because of
natural limitations to rainfed agriculture in a low rainfall zone.
6.03   In the case of annual crops, full development yields (Table 6.1) are
expected to be reached three years after irrigation water becomes available to
farmers. For most perennial crops, these yield levels are expected to be
reached, in any given area, from 5-13 years after completion of physical
works, corresponding to a 16-year gestation period for most perennials at the
overall project level (year 2000). Expected without- and with-project
performance estimates are tabulated below:
Table 6.1: Crop Areas, Yiel6s and Production
Area     Yield   Production   Area        Yield   Production
(ha)    (t/ha)   ---(ton)    (ha)    (t/ha)   ---(ton)--
Without Project                        With Project 
Irrigated Crops
Citrus                 162    32-45       6,960        600    32-45       23,400
Bananas                  7     22           155         80      22         1,750
Deciduous Fruits        15    22-24         345        120    22-24        2,880
Table 3rapes            12     18           215        160      18         2,880
Vegetables              36     30         1,080        500    24-39       16,700
Avocados              -         -           -          160      11         1,760
Table Olives          -         -                      140      15         2,100
Almonds                -        -                       80       8           640
Pistachios             -        -           -           40       8           320
Pecans                -                  _             120      15         1,800
Subtotal            232    n.a, /1    8,755        2,000    n.a.       54,230
Rainfed Crops
Cereals                826      2         1,650        -         -           -
Fodder                 186      8         1,490        -         -           -
Legumes                158      1           160        -         -           -
Others                 598    n.a.        n.a.         -         -           -
Subtotal          1,768    n.a.                      -         -           -
Total             2,000    n.a.        12,055      2,000    n.a.       54,230
/1 "n.a." means not applicable.



- 33 -
6.04      The above with-project cropping pattern is indicative of the wide
variety of irrigated crops that can be grown in the various parts of the
project area. It should be noted that the cropping pattern includes composite
groups, e.g., citrus, deciduous fruits, vegetables, the latter including some
30 different cacegories, and hence the variety of the cropping pattern is even
larger than is at first apparent. The above crop mix is considered a probable
initial development, given the most important agronomic, social, economic and
market constraints. With many alternative options available in the face of
changing constraints and with new introductions being made available regularly
by the extension service, farmers' decisions until the year 2000 and beyond
can, evidently, not be predicted with any precision. The above cropping
pattern and yield levels are based on successful crop production methods
already practiced by Cypriot farmers and constitute a realistic basis for
making economic and financial projections.
B. Prices
6.05      As approximately three-quarters of project incremental output is
expected to be exported, both farmgate as well as export prices (FOB) have
been used; they are tabulated below. Both sets are expressed in 1983 values,
and the producer pric- s shown below are identical to those applied in the
project financial analyses. Different margins between the two price sets
reflect unequal export marketing costs as well as differing shares of produce
destined for export compared to its total production.
Table 6.2: Producer and Export Prices /1
Producer Price           Export Price (FOB)
(US$/ton)   (C£/ton)       (US$/ton)   (CE/ton)
Lemons                                200           95            335          160
Mandarins                             250          120            345          165
Oranges                               135           65            240          115
Avocados                              840          400          1,415          675
Bananas                               260          125           n.a. /2      n.a.
Table Grapes                          365          175            840          400
Table Olives                          365          175            945          450
Pistachio Nuts (Unshelled)          2,500        1,190          3,675        1,750
Pecan Nuts (Unshelled)              1,020          485          1,575          750
Almonds (Shelled)                   1,575          750          3,150        1,500
Apricots                              420          200            630          300
Plums                                 315          150            630          300
Peaches                               420          200            630          300
Vegetables, Early                     365          175            660          315
Vegetables, Summer                    200           95            355          170
Vegetables, Late & Winter             250          120            505          240
/1 Discrepancies due to rounding.
/2 "n.a." means not applicable.



- 34 -
6.06      In a number of instances, the above prices are based on historical
Cypriot price series, adjusted upward or downward to reflect anticipated
changes in export prices or seasonal specifics of project output (all citrus,
all vegetables, olives and grapes). In other cases (avocados and deciduous
fruits), expected European Economic Community (EEC) import prices were
converted to export and producer prices by application of freight costs and
import duties.   Export prices of nuts (almonds, pistachios and pecans) are
based on the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) import and export unit price
statistics. It should be noted that the price adopted for each of the three
vegetable categories represents the weighted average export price of about 10
different vegetables. In all instances, it was assumed that Cyprus' position
regarding EEC import tariffs would remain the same,
6.07      It is considered that the above price sets are conservative and, in
general, reflect the price outlook for the commodities concerned.
C. Marketing
6.08      Approximately 75X of expected overall incremental project output is
expected to be exported, the balance being destined for domestic consumption.
A considerable number of fruit and vegetable market studies are available,
some of which were prepared for the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project
(Loan 1988-CY), and deal primarily with the EEC markets. Although Cyprus'
agricultural exports are mainly shipped to EEC nations, recently, markets in
the Eastern European and Middle Eastern countries have been receiving
increased quantities of Cypriot horticultural products,
6.09      All studies are cautious about future growth prospects in the
aggregate for EEC fruit and vegetable imports from non-member countries.
There is equal agreement that, wherever feasible, export oroduction should be
shifted towards higher priced seasons. Although emphasis may differ, there is
a consensus that avocados, table grapes and early vegetables appear to have
better than average prospects. The findings of these studies were taken into
account when formulating the proposed project. Tne studies mentioned above
analyze import and export prospects on an individual commodity basis. Since
the proposed project is expected to generate exports of more than 20 different
commodities, it is clearly not possible to even summarize here the main
findings for each commodity. Moreover, full production would be achieved by
the year 2000, for which no demand estimates are available, and cropping
patterns are expected to change according to market demand. Hence, any
elaboration on market forecasts for the year 2000 is not realistic.
6.10      At full development, the project's estimated incremental export
volume will be about 20,000 tons of fruits and 10,000 tons of vegetables.
Measured against present or projected imDorts into the European and Middle
Eastern markets, these quantities are exceedingly small.   he proposed
project's total future vegetable export increment by the year 1990, for
instance, will be less than aubergine (eggplant) and courgette (Zucchini or
summer squash) imports into West Germany alone in 1978. With respect to
citrus (for which export opportunities seem less promising than for most other
proposed crops), present Cyprus' exports of about 40,000 tons/year are about



- 35 -
1.3% of EEC citrus imports. Citrus exports from the proposed project are
estimated to reach 15,000 tons by the year 2000 which is well below the volume
needed to maintain Cyprus' present market share. In summary, no market
absorption problems are expected to arise from the project's production
because of the relative insignificance of expected incremental export volumes
as well as because of its earliness.
6.11      Main marketing problems could arise from the fragmented structure of
the Cyprus fruit and vegetable export market, lack of coordination and the
absence of a long-term marketing strategy. Exporters continue to act in a
pronounced individualistic manner, foregoing the potential benefits of
consolidating their efforts as they play into the hands of European
importers. Equally unfortunate is Cyprus' exporters' traditonal orientation
towards the UK market.
6.12      These problems are being addressed by the Fruit and Vegetable Export
Project (Loan 1988-CY) through (i) the reorganization and consolidation of the
fruit and vegetable trade in the form of a fruit and vegetable exporters'
association that would effectively represent the industry vis-a-vis government
and outside agencies; (ii) establishment of a Horticultural Export Development
Advisory and Coordinating Committee (HEDACC) representing producers, exporters
and government and which will be the delivery base for the new marketing
concepts; and (iii) formulation and implementation of an export promotion
strategy. Key aspects of such strategy will be the shifting away of export
deliveries from the UK market to a central clearing firm on the continent
(Rotterdam for fruits and Frankfurt for air-freighted vegetables) to gradually
establish a permanent presence in the EEC market. The adoption of a common
brand name for all Cyprus' produce marketed overseas is considered an
important element of the overall market penetration strategy. Coordination of
effort will not be limited to the export side only, but will have to include
the integration of growers' activities with the quality, quantity and timing
requirements of the market. Thus it is clear that the marketing of the
production generated under the proposed project is closely linked to a
successful marketing organization as envisaged under the Fruit and Vegetable
Export Project (Loan 1988-CY). In this context, progress in implementing the
marketing aspects envisaged under the project would be reviewed by December
31, 1985. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, following the
above review, such steps as agreed with the Bank would be taken to ensure
adequate organization of horticultural marketing channels (para 7.01).
D. Beneficiaries
6.13      Employment opportunities in the proposed project area are presently
limited, and many farmers seek employment elsewhere to augment their present
farm incomes. Approximately 640 families or 3,500 persons are expected to
benefit directly from the project and will be fully employed therein. The
project is also expected to generate, at full development, additional on-farm
part-time employment corresponding to about 502000 man-days/year and a similar
volume of part-time employment in packinghouses and associated activities.



- 36 -
E. Producer Incomes, Cost, Rent Recovery and Financial Impact
6.14      Without- and with-project income and expenditure flows for three
major farm-size groups were prepared (Annex 4). On the basis of these
projections, it is expected that farmers in each group, while receiving very
substantial increases in disposable family incomes, will also be able to
repay, with interest, medium-term loans as well as to pay the proposed water
charges (para 6.18).
6.15      Producer Incomes.  Net average farm incomes at full development
(year 2000) for each of the project area's three main farm-size groups are
expected to increase from three to 10 times their present levels
respectively. The disparities between these anticipated growth rates are
mainly caused by the fact that the smaller farms are currently more
intensively cropped than the larger ones, making for smaller increments in the
case of the former. Differences in cropping patterns and long-term
profitability among farm-size groups are additional causes of differential
growth rates. The estimated distribution of agricultural incomes, without the
project and with it, is tabulated below:
Table 6.3: Agricultural Income Distribution
Average
Farm Size   Number of Farmers        Farm Income            Total Area Income
Class (ha)        No.    %         Without    With    Without    %    With        x
(C£)              (C  '000)--------
0-1.3          230    36           450      1,965      103      14      452     8
1.3-5.3          295    46         1,400      8,780     413       56   2,590    46
5.3-13.3         100    16         1,700    20,262       170      23   2,026    36
> 13.3           15     2         3,100    38,060        46        7     570    10
Total          640   100                               732     100   5,638   100
Sources:  Agricultural Census and Mission Es-imates.
6.16      Cost Recovery. Approximately CE 17.95 million in current prices
(US$37.70 million) or about 81% of total project costs would be for public
irrigation development. Discounted in constant 1983 values at 9% over the
lifetime of the project, it was computed that the average capital cost of
water would be about C£ 0.135/m3 (US$0.28/m3), whereas the average
operating and maintenance cost would be about CE 0.020/m3 (US$0.04/m3),
hence making for a total cost of CE 0.160/m3 (US$0.32/m3).
6.17      In most irrigation areas in government-controlled Cyprus, water
charges per cubic meter are presently (1983) CE 0.020-0.025, after having been
increased in 1982 by as much as 100%. As for the proposed project, in view of
the expected development over time of cash earnings in the various farm types,
and especially in the smallest one which is relevant to 37% of the
beneficiaries, it is recommended to limit water charges in the initial three
years of operation of the irrigation system constructed under the project to a



- 37 -
level slightly above the average cost of O&M which is presently estimated at
CE 0.025/m3 (US$0.05/m3).  Thereafter, these would be increased gradually
to recover, besides the full O&M cost, 85% of the capital costs by the fifth
year of the sNstemls operation and be maintained at this level of CE 0.135/
m3 (US$0.28/rn ) in real terms. As all farms will be equipped with water
meters, this will be technically feasible. At a discount rate of 9%, the Net
Present Values of the capital costs and of the stream of water charges
indicate that over 40 years about 53% of the capital costs would be
recovered. The overall water cost recovery, including capital as well as O&M
costs, would be about 60% (Annex 5).
6.18      Assurances were obtained duiring negotiations that (i) the Government
would undertake the appropriate studies to determine the proposed water
charges for the 1986 season (first year of irrigation in a part of the project
area) and communicate these for the Bank's comments no later than December 31,
1985 (para 7.01); and (ii) upon the availability of irrigation water an
irrigation water charge would be collected from project beneficiaries and be
reviewed thereafter annually during the month of March as decreed by the
Council of Ministers (Decree No. 232/82 of February 25, 1982) so as to recover
the full O&M costs and at least 50% of the capital costs for the purpose of
irrigation in the project areas at an interest rate of at least 9% p.a. over a
period of 40 years.
6.19      Farmers are expected to require CE 2.62 million (US$5.50 million),
or about 12% of total project cost, in medium-term credit for the purpose of
financing 75% of the cost of establishing the on-farm irrigation works,
smoothing their fields, and establishing orchards. Cash flow tables prepared
for the three major farm types in the area indicate that farmers in all
categories will, in principle, be able to repay these loans fully, including
interest charges of 7% p.a., over a period of eight years.
6.20      Rent Recovery.  The initial water charge of CE 0.025/m3 is about
the maximum that can be charged under the assumptions of the most vulnerable
farm model (farm model 1 of 0.85 ha), which represents the bulk of the small
and part-time farmers in the project area. The proposed long-term water
charge of CE 0.135/m3 (para 6.17) would recover practically all of their
rent (95%; see Annex 5); nevertheless, adequate incentives are present as
imputations have been made to all quantifiable factors of production. Under
the proposed water charge structure, farmers of various farm sizes would pay
to the Government between 42% and 95% of their expected discounted project
rent (Annex 4).
6.21      Estimated Financial Impact.  The incremental external debt service
of the proposed project being about US$5.6 million/year, the annual equivalent
of government financing amounting to US$2.7 million and an annual O&M cost of
about US$0.7 million, total outflow will be about US$9.0 million/year. By the
fifth year of project operation, the total receipts from water charges will
amount to US$3.6 million/year.
F. Economic Rate of Return
6.22      The principal benefits at full development (2000, year 18) will
arise from the expected incremental crop production (US$11.8 million/year in



- 38 -
1983 prices), more than three-quarters of which are from perennial crops
(US$9.4 million/year) and the balance (US$2.4 million/year) from annual crops,
mainly vegetables.
6.23      The rate of return to the economy (ERR) has been calculated on the
basis of the anticipated crop areas, cropping patterns, yields and farmers'
costs of production per hectare under improved cultivation practices. No
investment costs or incremental operating costs were excluded from the ERR
computation. The following assumptions underlie the rate of return
computations:
(a) All benefits and costs were calculated in constant mid-1983 values
and adjusted for future changes in real prices wherever appropriate
or feasible. Benefits and costs, where applicable, were adjusted
for all apparent transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies;
(b) Border prices of tradable outputs were derived from the Bank's
commodity price data (citrus and bananas), from Cyprus' export data
or EEC import prices (avocados, grapes, olives, deciduous fruits and
vegetables) and from US trade data (pistachios, almonds and
pecans). Where possible and appropriate, these prices were adjusted
for earliness, grade differentials, handling and transportation
costs.
(c) All imported inputs such as fertilizer, chemicals and fuel were
valued at their estimated 1983 border prices. The shadow wage rate
was made to correspond to the actual wage-rate structure for male
and female labor in the project area and which is very close to
national averages. The proposed project's peak labor demands are
well below supply.
(d) All incremental production and farm input utilization were phased in
accordance with the anticipated buildup of the areas cultivated and
the projected yield developments. It has been assumed that, for
annual crops, final yield levels would be attained after fours
years; for perennial crops, final yields have been assumed to be
reached after 15 years for the entire project area.
(e) The analysis was based on a project life of 25 years. Specific
investments (on-farm irrigation equipment) were assumed to be
replaced when necessary at the end of their useful life; no salvage
values were imputed. The without-project situation was estimated to
generate net benefits about 20% over present levels, for many
perennial crop stands are still young and their yields would
increase significantly without additional investment.
6.24      Based on these criteria and the data shown in Annex 6, the basic ERR
of the project is estimated to be 13.9%. The sensitivity analysis shows the
following ERR values for deviations from baseline project performance:



- 39 -
1)  Base value                                               13.9
2)  Benefits down 20%                                         9.9
3)  Costs up 20%                                             10.6
4)  Benefits lagging 1 year                                  11.6
5)  Benefits lagging 2 years                                  9.7
6)  Costs up 20% and benefits lagging 2 years                 7.0
6.25      In addition, the switching values of key variables have been
calculated.  For example, benefits can decrease by about 20%o or investment
costs can increase by about 25% before the overall rate of return would become
equal to 10.0%.
Other Benefits
6.26      The large, though slowly developing, exportable surpluses will give
rise to a substantial increase in the activities of fruit and vegetable
packing industries and in industrial branches which supply the packing
materials for these industries. Similarly, the project will lead to
measurable increases in port and airport activities (Limassol and Paphos,
respectively).
G. Project Risks
6.27      The project has been well prepared and the availability of detailed
designs makes it possible to proceed early with project execution. There are
no unusual technical risks associated with the project, and those which are
normally associated with the project benefits, costs and development period
have been evaluated in the sensitivity analysis. The probability of water
supply deficits occurring in the project area is discussed in para 4.25.
6.28      The greatest risk threatening the successful outcome of the project
would be the absence of improvement in existing export marketing systems and
procedures and in devising a long-term fruit and vegetable export strategy.
Minimizing this risk is, in general terms, the principal institutional
objective of the ongoing Bank-assisted Fruit and Vegetable Export Project;
hence, close supervision of that project will be essential not only for the
sake of that project, but also for the successful outcome of the presently
proposed one. Whereas, in the first year of operation of the export project,
little was achieved in institution-building, the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECObMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached and assurances obtained
on the principal issues referred to in Chapters IV, V and VI (paras 4.14,
4.15, 4.20, 4.29, 4.31, 5.06, 5.12, 5.13, 5.16, 5.18, 5.20, 6.12 and 6.18).
Subject to the conditions of effectiveness described in para 4.14, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.0 million to the Government of Cyprus on
the usual terms.



CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates /1
% of         % of
Foreign   Total Base
Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange            Cost
T     '()W) ------
1. Evretou Dam
General                                   179      179       358        376      376       752        50
Diversion Works;
- Coffer Dam                               57       86       143       120       180       300       60
- Tunnel                                  200      300       500       420       630     1,050       60
Grouting:
- Alluvial                                199      349       548       418       733    1,151         64
- Curtain and Dam Foundation              732   1,089    1,821       1,537   2,287       3,824        60
Eb,bankment                             1,250   1,903    3,153    2,625   3,996          6,621        60
Spillway                                  237      281       518       498       590    1,088         54
Outlet Works                              191      330       521        401      693    1,094         63
Access Roads                               78       79       157        164      166       330        50
Budiaings                                  18       17        35         38       36        74       49
Day Works                                  50       51       101        105      107       212        51                                a
Base Cost Stubtotal                  3,191   4,664    7,855    6,701   9,794   16,495              59             45                 °
2.  Upper Khrysokhou Diversion
Civil Works                                82       68       150        172      143       315       45
Conveyance Pipelines                      105      245       350        221      514       735        70
Base Cost Subtotal                      187      313       500       393      657     1,050        63              3
3.  Conveyor and Branches
General                                    32       18        50         67       38       105        36
Main Pipeline                             366      656    1,022         767   1,378      2,145        64
Knrysokhou East Branch Pipeline            29       48        77         61      101       162        62
Khrysokhou West Bra^,ch Pipeline           54       93       147        114      195       309       63
Khrysokhou South Branch Pipeline            8       12        20         17       25        42        60
Khrysokhou West Lower Pond                 31       64        95         65      135       200        68
Khrysoklhou West Upper Pond                41       80       121         86      168       254        66
Khrysokhou East Lower Pond                 34       66       100         71      139       210        66
Break Pressure Tanks                       22       45        67         46       95       141       67
Base Cost Subtotal                     617   1,082    1,699        1,294   2,272      3,566        64             10
4.  Irrigation Network
Sector 1A (818 ha)                        322      669       991       676   1.405       2,081       68
Sector IB (758 ha)                        298      619       917       626   1,300       1,926       68
Sector lC (212 ha)                        102      217       319       214      456        670       68
Existing Scheme (200 ha)                  -        -         -          -        -         -           -
Base Cost Subtotal                      722   1,505    2,227       1,516   3,161    4,677          68             13



% of         % of
Foreign   Total Base
Local  For        Total    Local  F,,,ign   Total   Exchange             Cost
----- ((CE '000)--          -(USg'oo000)_=
5. Groundwater Development Schemes
Construction of Boreholes                 26       38        64         55       80       135       59
Construction of Pumphouses                20       20        40        42       42         84       50
Supply and Install Pumps                    7      18        25         15       38        53       72
Well Development                           4         4         8         8        8        16       50
Supply of Electricity                     19       29        48        40        61       101       60
Pipelines                                 10       58        68         21     122        143       85
Base Cost Subtotal                      86      167       253       181      351       532        66              1
6.  On-Farm Works Including Smoothing and Planting
On-Farm Installations:
- Area IA (818 na)                       266      617       883       559   1,296    1,855          70
- Area 1B (758 ha)                       247      572       819       519   1,201      1,720        70
- Area IC (212 ha)                        97      244       341       204      512        716       72
- Government Scheme (200 ha)              10       10        20         21       21        42       50
smoothing of Land                        100      100       200       210      210        420       50
Planting Orchards                        341       60       401       716      126        842       15
Production Inputs Orchards               142       25       167       298        53       351       15
Planting Vegetables                      241       43       284       506        90       596       15
Base Cost Subtotal                   1,444   1,671    3,115    3,033   3,509    6,542             54            18
7.  Land Acquisition for Project Facilities
Evretou Dam and Reservoir                 60                 60       126                 126
Diversion and Conveyors                   60                 60        126                126
Distribution System                       50                 50        105                105
Base Cost Subtotal                     170                170       357                357                        1
8. Project Management
Management and Engineering               304      120       424       638       252       890       28
Administrative                           129      -         129        271      -         271        -
Facilities                                66      122       188       139      256        395       65
On-farm Irrigation System                122      -         122       256       -         256        -
Agriculture Extension                     81      -          81        170     -          170        -
Base Cost Subtotal                     702      242       944    1,474       508    1,982         26              5
9.  Evretou Dam Construction Supervision
Staff:
- Expatriate                              63      252       315       132      529        661       80
- Local                                  225      -         225       473      -          473        -
Panel of Experts                           7       38        45         15      80         95       84
Base Cost Subtotal                     295      290       585       620      609                  50              3
Total Baseline Costs                 7,413   9,934   17347   15,567  20,861   36,428              57           100
10. Contingencies
Physical                                 t36      901    1,537    1,336   1,892    3,228            59
Price                                  1,347   1,788    3,135    2,829   3,755    6,584             57             27
Total Project Costs                  9,396  12,623   22,019   19,732  26,508   46,240 /2   57                   127
/1  Discrepancies due to rounding.
72  EKxcluding front end fee.                                                                                                                -



- 42-                                                                                    204EIC02
Page 1
(CT.)
B-s  Cots                                   Puce~ Curt, on, F-s.uo  8.,rr-
it   W,ts Cost    N.. if IsIs       19 19       19 19        1985         1944         1947         TsO,.        Q13  091 1u    I       d-to
4. a04984                                               3517298              I   49,42-0    d9,425.3D    89.42811       89.42,1              -    2517 04. O      329.11,1 21.1    173,851.1
894.2     5,209.0    12,161.4    19,84t.5                      3 733.01,               -511        8,o.
.-%sLsl 14C.1274  MV8r'NGENCC8S                                                92,311.2    94,64140   231,484.4   108.590,5                -    15,030.1         8297.853 54.1    517.5:1.i
Fore-   6E,uru                                                           -   45,159.4    41,111.1    50,140.2    54,295.1                      177215.1                 -  0.4           1.1
i. COF'   DAM                        ~~~1.1-1,509      90.000   144339.0   542,590.0              -            -            -     .42,144.2    1.4Z3,W47.  43.1    S335.24.C
tiss., 1on5,.onrc,es                              -    4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6000.8    71,1.1l,                                77,111.1                -  1.1      Iu,l4.
-  594.0    38,440.4              -                         -       9,220.4               - 4.0       23.5317,
442 ,, Lo  ik3.Ls14  £41841091108                                            54.54910   7021361.3                                              7    51921.4    1,413,531.1 41.1~  4,5,5-.15
,4o4i4, ,ruru on                                       00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,936.1,  401,414.8  -   -           -     481,152.8                -1.              11
is-, 21408I18  W0.3540.    5114.                                                                                                             641,594.1      1,423,547.0 41.1181.4,52.1
~~~~~~511  ~ ~ ~   ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ,090       1ril0                -77,110.1                                               -63.1       44,21.1
P,i'n ,3984!094s14                                            189,0~~~~~~~~~~~~------  38------.8  ------  ------------  ----------  -------                 ----~1
S- i7.  01  001,.IK  414,184091213                                            54,543,0   112,361.4              -            -- 158,21.4    i4Z43,531.1  4.1                       4-05,32.
0- ,  4' .94                                                         -   21936,0   421,496.3               -4-5 1.523-
i. hL2.4                                              25-121        .,253 01,0.                        010591              -            -     541,500.1     1,291,133.1 63.1    241,~.
9,1.4 140044.AerA,es                               ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~--  ---   --- 9.17  41,8 ---------.2-- -       ----  ,4. ---   -   ----- ---7    44-----
10-4 1214C111I1G 11.4T180941E                                                       144,121'.3   53111,2               -                 71-1,414.4    1,281,,93.1  61.7
1c,e,or 1,436414                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~106,241.3   301,220.4 8             4,6,
2.  0441  441' 1DM   034714111                        4-5         1551             - 455,25.    910,190.1   355,5.1                    -1,021,30,1.    4,334,2111 11.1  1.361
7,.so,4,u,.                       -           -    44,031,5   121,515.1    10,2~~~~        ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~            ~       ~~~8;.7.5  -  11151.1  -  91  .
-       3,49e.4    141,22u..       122,13.             -       3,426.0               -13.6    1~7761
S,-fAs10  141003443CO11411808181                                                          554,121.6 1.1611,21.9   435,741,5              -737,1,             4,344,313,1 29.4  i.i>
1..u  44 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,36,oe                              -   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,42.    711,305.6   33,1.0 ,2.9.                                  .1            .
4   1Tt.  ak.2 0                                                                            5S.-19,251.3 1,321,OO0.1   455,213,            -    340.500.1       ,2.l.  61.7  1.411.254.
F,i   4Co,ts,uucz-                                                                   -    80.3 15   198814           43281.5             -      5,215.1                 -0
-    19,71 114204192i   11,224.0                       316,717,5               -.1.       2i,14.24.
4  4   -X 4C 11.14GEN01                                                              '21,741,3  7.7.4.d49,1   4365,741.5            -23,0.55.5    6.2,450 4.;
9,-4,4 --                                                                        437.413,7 1.054.028.4   340.0i1.5               -1,941,321.7                  -    i            ,,-
"N'RE                             1%~~~~~~1-217.51  1.427,671              532,119119118.0           518,9.O -,6.24.1         3.152,940.0    7-519-.31.  ,1.1    ,110,
'i,4.'1w.4i-94su.                                  -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-61461.8   236.149,1    80,1?4,0  -  7.845.6                   0
F4.I 4I CL   st-,,4                                                                 -31,641 .4   39178.09,    138,281.5                       414.951,0                  6D4.1-  137,~443.
3 isoT1   k,,Li,Ni ,,9T18G04718t                                                           AZ! 74.7 21,53C967.3   79132SB.1                -   ,997,419.6  7.140.SS17.3 61.173       31.
ri,,,or. 8  ,,o,4-                                 -           -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41109.14,  1.521.145.5   415,527.7T  -2409,712.4                 1.0           1.1
'FILLVW  ~  ~       ~       ~       195621             172,015           -    12.757.0   194.106,1    11,244.0                     SIB 51.04.     .1918,2271.54.3    231.190.,1
?Insi ulr54u,,.-                                                                           16       .140.6            1.124.0             -     56.763.6                   -,.      '059538
4,4.4 lot,,uu,.c,o.                                                              8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~034.4 2,738o   2,44,9    7,8.              ii 
414*L44I iN147841 7>7143482191S                                                            19,52 14. 24,31.               . 51 .          -    066,351.1',107,227,  5!'4'                 .~
-        90, 70..  144 .97          7,536.9                  341,5s1,1
9044.6.   116900 .onA44n                                                                             521214                          1-5224.263421.0K~ 
44I4  CLI-4,4..i                                                                                                                        -      773234                      :4      .9  1.
is-7441. 74116110  C74128E0C1E8                                                                           K0.643.0                                650,949.4     .             3.4..4 3441  4
'4-io-0,u,4                                                                                            4  .2, 4 7-    412,447,4                                                             C
9..c11 C1,  , 4u,.0    i                                                                                          2o50               -15,725.0                        5.
-  -   ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~----    --                              -----  ------5--  ------                 --------------  ---------
i,O4Tt                                                 14.711              1                                     -CIS  ',71.,~2;   -139.         345.90,1        354,5   ',Oi.        1-a3.4
9 7.1MIK 1i    34,?                                                                                            -            -441 1                               7902S.0            1, U 
4 t,1,.9      lb     48385I11                                                              -O61                             -                   4201'A.2        7'591- 5420         '05 1.
111.600             I     412,271,                             37,292.1                   .003.6200       23,21.9.  3c0.       10,3394
L                                                 ~~~~~    ~ ~~~~~402,4  i-  1797       3,7219.2                  44.116        ~           A  0        ,0L
4         4,716.21,581.3                         14.4,2- 95.
71 N74 181  918  129714G8N7lE3                                                                       41,141.4    41.100,5                 -  '>25,   4       132. 4 2894.850.3   K,.4.2
444                                                                        72~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:3S.3'   V,39.  77SC.51076.200                               1
:51.17              :-                                                      45,2.1         ..30 1         ,419 454 3 4.0        750,
4,~~~~~~~,41l 1.444.,,44                                                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,532.0  ll50.il.    .92.0
4,,,.,.r4. ,4uLJN     ON1GECE                                                                                                      l14.15.9    730,414.4           ?,5.0             10,
4. 71971738910024                                            51       4,01,191.4    350,l30.0                                                                   9213.733 10.    2.56 I0Ol
.lns,i Oo4Cuez                                                                                                                    35.880,2C     35,304.2                  70.0      2,0.
1,,co 14o4,44e.,444,                                                                        -    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15,213.7    115,2382  7.  .44,,7.
S,c:-Ic.  191042140 -71N14E0921S                                                                                                    500,73.1    510,120S.7        921's.43 1   .0 1    752 "
1.444444                                                                                  353,167.6     151,147,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'171  5~1  
i-.11E144   114171                                       71.l<               1                  .1,        1,561,               -                   0111            141,43c                267,C
74,.i,o1  2u,,.nie,s,,i  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~     ~            4,11,.  ~ ---  -  -                -     ----   --9 ---------        ---
~~w'A.                                                 .5    14,63".1                                                                          v C~~~~~~~~~~~6,215  1.
rPu,e,i,,4,.,43,,44e                                                                                                    ~;4~                     11,9,1                     C!      3 I1.0
F-,   -o,,-c,-                                                                                         93, 31   21470,4                                                  il6      .1,157
11-Tha  1471.41153I   1147181497111                                                                        Ur,A90.3     "< 5,D                     77.217.7 2 4    344,95  ,  137    .9.51.1
30141    6182021'94420',57 2                                                                                                                                      . c.72 7   43,92,1  .   -.2  .
I. k88.183   431   70292V992                                         7278.1. 8E,.49                                                            '4' 24   '       4.2    41            .6
17,-  1o-t4s- -e                                                                      -1 .7471.9        12,338.7         6,903.                 1 7.543,1                 40.3       3,41
F-,,4 ic8r                                                                           -    44,73.4    47V.9,1          5-045-1             -    43,917.9                 -  0.-I          30



-4 3-                                                                          03NNFX26
F. 6449040  0322  am 99l4                         333.3              .4           -     5942       2,4.          .1.              -     33K 1,334.7    43,222.9 MS,    22,43.2
P"3. C2,44o.9W -34.                                                                              1223           2.3            -      2524,42.                           ,2.
346-249,  I63229263 23673633F3                                                          6,952.     14,422        ,346             -    3,532,9         26424  93          4,422.4
4199463 64444                                  -          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,46.0  327.3  2,034.5         23.443,4
D. 3639940 633  SFd  PM44                     24,34641,342                             34:4,3    94W,44,         ,3,24,                               222,449. 6 422      sa2.O
69.34  ~.4433 -1944400,3                                                                      3544.3        233.2                  92.                                3,4.c
9 C,t .-2                                                                         2,149789.6  9,225.4     ,2,343.                 I 3:                               .272 712.E
49,,,,.2  2324433494,4,                                       54,2     2,494,2~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -444.                                .2O49.O.
29.,4,2C. U -4,4                                                                                       -    .247." 
4,9. .443244423,42  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  -- ---   ---- 24-4224                                -2,24  4   -------- 3-------- 
7.20,2I  42426  24262232                                                                                     4,934        2,   4    432. ,994 4z    .92,.33            '-743.32.
E1942, 49                                                     .2 .                                -           2   47.222        3 .4232                          1~5.
2.1.2,, .292,2499,093  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~5 ,1     r,92, .                                    4, 26.2
2.2,24pW         Wo                      2204,,4,,994O 41C.v.100:3                                                                                 -,2    . -4,442 9.
,i,o04,2,244214244                                ~             ~            ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~..  2,5,632..... ... ....9.   ...  -----------      9--
4.22222122  3.2                           235-.4430         2,22 09,2                                                                         ,4o32,0              2
.2.41114249.9.9.992,11                                                                    2    0,742               -                ,4,    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90 117
.224930                                                            .          -    023.331.,   1,~~~~~~~~~~--- ---  - --- --- -3---- --
22 449      14lIE                                                                         461,                               1,.
422232       , -4225          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~949                 203.4   223,4,2~~~~~~~~~:0.O    ,:              .;,!. 
-     2,22----2  2,2- -- - - --- --2.               ---   - -- -    
S,B    , 'ig  IDW141                                                                          2,21.    22,21
49    t    3.-36   499922                                                                -.2212 9322
p92   m1,2.422,,11E IS4..                                                                                                      4     .5      VAL
~~~2,14,0.2490I2.449.2l4. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~J8-46~                                        ",         .
A19E14  2,Ml923,440                                             i..      .                                         4    49,22C1 .9
4.  42326  334104  44649CIE 2353244                               24                 4
4. 24244263434-294                                                   934          -                                               2    14    3
2.  --26                                              24          .2                              1,3            ,                                   ..-4.1,o.~3~v   ,2  2
CIE9.                                             IN91224,42,4                                    2,       232,     10,122.         l,O41.                  C,          3
F. 9.3C7234  2I9T.2 ORD"93                   2,334-42,560            . ;3                                            2    ol- o:lo           
Fz2-434  2422c24  249224634241                                                                                                            A            .42      C.04     2
E, 9-4'6  463462                                    252-F2           124i                                                  <    :.      841. 2,4.
24-,122*,6332423032                                                                                   21-914                                                       221.
9. 2-622363446   CM4123                                 425          .20                2.1.,         0  ..12                          7.2a2.2,         2:3- v.
9,6-492   40466  23T220I323                                                                                                                       34. 62 3
4. 44457433T241 44 0420.                              25 43        4.922                                                                                2 o1       -        2422 3
944.,4j  294399UM    9 C23                                                                                                              44214
99099 2oooo                                                                                                                22           .44                   1             3
4,4-24a2264.226  26972963242224                                                                                                                                         -0 x  . 
30092644       L 2 363246363 3493462332                                                                                                           4 ,22    222~    I,
9094044 20.44,442-O,,9o I                                                                                                             ,7333 
4919.0992 2490194940144                                                              .                   -   .      - 2-9-02---
99919  4943,4.                                                                                                          22.349,2     22,325.2.                 4,0          O.
9,09. 44444049090114                                                     -           -            -    2-434,4      2,629.2                 45.2      2,29-----2.2-  ------ -------
999-9,63  649234                                                                                       .                  ,5142.29,2'45                    - 4.3           3.2



-44-                                                                              ANNEX 2
Page 3
N. SUPPLY DF ELECTRICITY                                 6,000             8                        -                              48,000.0      48,000.0       131,024.0 60.0      28,800.0
PhMsical Cor.tinter.cies                                                      -           -            -                  -      4,800.0       4,000.0               - 60.0       2,880.0
Price Cof.tLor,eecies                                                   -    -            -            -                  -    158042         iS,804.2               - 60S0       9,482.5
Sub-Totui 1NCLUGiNG CONTINGENCIES                                                      -            -            -           -    60.604.2       63,604.2       131,024.0 60.0      41i162.5
Foreinr Exchange                                                        -           -            -           -            -    41,162,5      41,162.5                -  0.0           0.0
N. TIPELiNES                                              2-15         8,000           -            -           -            -    606000.0       60,000.1       185,617.3 84.7      57,600.0
Phosical Cor,tinsercles                                                 -           -            -           -            -    10,200.0       10,200.0               - 14.7       8,640.0
Price Continser,cies                                                    -                                                       23,406.9     23,406.7                - 84.7      19,827.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTIN1ENCiES                                                      -            -           -            -   101,606.9    101,606.9         185,617.3 84.7      86,067.0
Forelgr, Excharnse                                                      -           -            -            -           -    a64067.0      16,067.0                -  0.1           0.0
0. NANAGENENT AN  ENGINEERING                    2,500-50,OOO             50   35,000.0   111,000.0   111,000.0    96,000.0    71,000,.         424,000.0    1,024,398.3 28.3    120,000.0
Ftict Cor,tir,roies                                                    -      350.0      6,465.8    14t971.4    20,574.6    21,251.8        63,613.6                - 19.2      12,211.S
Sub-utai INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                35.350.0   117,465.0   125,971.4   116,574.6    92i251,.        487,613.6    1,024,398.3 27.i    132,211.5
Fuleiae,  ucfhorise                                                     -   20,204.0    42,330.0    45,395.1    24,286.4               -    132,211.5                -  0.0
F. 6D0NIS 1T10VE                                   2,,00-6,000            40   13000.0    29,00G.0    29,000.0    29,000.0    29,000.0    129,00,0             314,340.9  0.0            0.0
PFice Cor,tir,iencies                                                   -       130.0     1,689.3      3,911.4      6,215.2      8,6503      20,626.3                -  0.0           G.G
Si4>-Total iNCLUDING CONTINGENCiES                                             13,130.0    30,689.3    32,911.4    35,215.2    37.680.3    149,626.3           314,340.  0.0            0.0
C. FAL:LITIES                                       506-75,000            39   89.900.0    59,100.0    13,000.0    13.000,0    13,00O.0    188,000.0           421,790.6 64.9    122,100.0
Phssucal Cortir,sencies                                                 -    5,450.0      3,650.0      1,100.0      1,1000.      1,100.0     12,400.0                - 55.3       7,350.0
Price Coritirger,cies                                                   -      953.5      3,655.2      1,901.8      3,021.9      4,220.4      13,752.0               - 63.5       8,733.3
Sob-Totai iNCWflING CONTINGENCIES                                              76,303.5    66,405,2    164001.8    17,121.9    10,320.4    214,152.8           421,790.6 64.5    130,183.3
Frrei sr Enchanse                                                      -   62,311,9    43,774,5       9,90.9    10,686.0    11,434.0    130,183.3                   -  04              .
h. ON-FARM iRRIGATION SYSTEM                       2,500-7,000            36   10,000.0    22,500.0    22,550.0    27,500.0    37,000.0    121,500.0           301,140,0  0.1             0.0
Price Conctnrerncieo                                                    -       100.0     1,310,6      3,034.7      6,322.4   ,1,074.9       21,342.7                -0.0             0.0
Sob-Total INL0 2II0G CONTINENCE10                                              10,100.0  O23,110.6    25,534.7    35,822.4    48,074.9    143,342.7            301,140.0  0.1
A   1bR 7CULTURi EXTENSION                        ,500-10,000             20    6,000.0    12,000.0    12,000.0    I2,000.0    39,000.0         S1,0000.        205,090,1  0.0           0.0
Frice OoJr,toar,sncies                                                 -       60.0        699,0      1,610,.5 ,571.0    11,673.5           16,622.7                -  v.v           ou.
Sub-Total INCLUDIN  CGNTINGENCIES                                              6,060.1    12,099.0    13,61? 5    14,571.0    50,673.5         97,622.9       205,090.1  0.1            1.0
STAFF                                           400-50,000             64   77,200.0   154,400.0   154,4000   154,000.0                -    540,000.0    1,268,050.8 46.,   252,000.0
Price Continsen,cies                                                    -      772.0      8,993.8    20,825.1    33,005.1              -     63,596.0                - 46.7      29,696.1
Sjb-Tiotl iNCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                              77,972.0   163,373.8   175,225.1   187,00G,.               -    603I,.56.0     ,260,050.8 46,.    281,696.1
Foreisn Ex.chaole                                                       -   36,360.0    76,194.0    81,711.2    07,431.0               -    280,696.1                -  0.0           0.0
U. uISTS bo  PANEL OF EXPERTS                            7,500             6    7,500.0    15,000.0    15,000.0        7,300.0            -      45,000.0       104,150.2 65.v      30,250.0
ice Cutrlinercas                                                       -        75,1       073.8      2,023.2      1,607.4            -       4,579,3               - 05,0       3,892.4
Sub-Total INCLUDINC CONTINGENCIES                                               7,575.0    15,073.0    17,023.2        9,107.4            -     49,579,3        004,158.2 35.0      42,142.4
Foreigr, E.rchare                                                       -    6,430.0    13,492.7    14,469.7        7,741.3            -     42,142.4                -  0.0           3.0
Total INVESTlENT COSTS                                                           405,799.0 3,334,129.9 6,36,8008.8 3,944,064.9 3,291,213.0 17.347,015.6   42,509,965.3 57.2  9,924,839.6
Phbs;cal Co,,tir,oer,c5ie                                                  -   24,527.4   314,437.0   643,136.9   317,713.4   247,057.3  1,536,S72,0                    - 5.6    900,970.5
Price Contir,ercie;                                                        -    4,233.3   212,529.0   945,753.i   913,379.7 1,059,079.5  3,134.975.2                    - 57.0  1,708,31u.3
Total INCLUDING CONTiNEENCIES                                                    427,559.7 3,861,095,9 7,957,699.4 5,175,158.1 4,597,349.8 22,018,062.,   42,509,965.0 57.3 12,614,120.5
Forelsr, E,chnar,e                                                         -  221,491.2 2,233,407.4 47704,473,3 2,831,209.5 2,62S,539.1 12,614,120.5                    -  0.0           0.0
Totai B4SELINE COSTS                                                               400,799.0 3,334,129.9 6-36,808.8 3,944,064.9 3,291,213,0 17,347,015,6   42,509,965.0 57,2  9,924,039,6
PhOs:cal Cor.t:i4eocie0                                                          :4yJ27.4   314,437.0   643,136.9   317,713.4   247,1057.3  1,536,072.0                  - 50.6    900,970.5
F-ice Cuntinoerncies                                                        -    4,.33.3   .i1,529,0   745,753,7   913,379,7 1,059,07S.5  3,134,975,2                    - 57.0  1,780,310.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                427,559.7 3,OsI,35,9 ',97,i699.4 5,175,158.1 4,597,349.,  22,018,862.0   42,509,965.0 57,3 12,614,120.5
Foreign Exchanse                                                            -  221,491.2 2,233,407.4 4,704,473.3 2,831f209.5 2,623,539,1 12,614,020.5                    -  0.0           0.0
Januars r24, 1013  11:47



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
EMENA          Cyprus
Cumulative                          Agricultural   Agricultural
IBRD FY                Disbursements          Cumulative       Projects        Projects
(USg Million Equivalent)   ----(%)            (Cumulative % Diabursed)-
1983/84
December 31, 1983                 1.25                  7.81            0.7             0.1
June 30, 1984                     3.00                 18.75            2.2             1.6
1984/85
December 31, 1984                 5.00                 31.25            5.0             5.9
June 30, 1985                     8.00                 50.00            9.2            12.8
1985/86
December 31, 1985                10.50                 65.62           14.8            21.8
June 30, 1986                    13.00                 81.25           21.6            32.2
1986/87
December 31, 1986                13.50                 84.37           29.2            43.0
June 30, 1987                    14.00                 87.50           37.4            53.3
1987/88
December 31, 1987                14.50                 90.62           45.8            62.6
June 30, 1988                    15.50                 96.87           54.1            70.4
1988/89
December 31, 1988                15.75                 98.43           62.1            77.1
June 30, 1988                    16.00                100.00           69.7            82.7



CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Income and Expenditure Flows
(Cf.)
Wltt1,o.ut
Proiect                                                             Wit, Project
1   2   3        4         5        6                  8        9       10       11       12        13       14      15-40
A. Farm Model 1 (0.85 ha)
Int low
Gross Val-e oi Profuctio1/1        J9)       800     950       975    1,075    1,137   1,382    1,690    1,997   2,305   2,612    2,765   2,858   2,950    3,042    3,073
Farmers'   nrrbut-t                          330               -            -                      -         -                          - /  -             -
Meoi,u-te-m t.re,lt                          99) _    _                 -
Total lnflow                     595.   2,125      950      975    ,075    1,137    1,382    1,690    1,997   2,305    2,612    2,765   2,858   2,950    3,042   3,073
Ou rflow
investment                         -       1,325    --                  -        -        -        -        -                  --       _        _         _                 -
Product,i on Costs /1              14S       185     205       230      260      270      280      290       300      310      320      330       340      345      345      345
Lrrcf)tc)u charges-                           56      71       85       160      177      362      570      763       763      763      763      763       763      763      763
Mledium-ters, Loan; InLutest       -           70      70       62       53       44       34        23       12               -             -             -        -
Mcu,ua-term Lon,; Pri,cupckl    -            -        115      123      132      141      151      162       173
'otai Outflow                    145     1,636    461       500      605       632      827    1,045    1,248   1,073    1,083    1,093   1,103    1,108    1,108    1,108
Net lnrlow  4jotlIuw,            450       4d9     489      475      470       505      555      645      749   1,232    1,529   1,672    1,755    1,842    1,934    1,965
b    n.1ors  -'toO    Z (3.0 La)
I, rtow
GrOs-  Value ur Procuction/i  2,100    u,37/  3,867   4,147   4,535   4,795   5,831   7,125   8,420   9,718   10,375  11,070  11,760  12,450  12,700  12,958
Frn,ers' Contrib,tioi /2           -       1,170      -        -        -                 -                  -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -
Mcut-um-lirl,rnrcct -L _ ~ Jj~Q                       - .      -        - -      -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -                           a'-
loLal Inflow                   2,100     8,050  3,887   4,147   4,535   4,795   5,83]    7,125   8,420   9,718  10,375                 11,070  11,760  12,450  12,700  12,958                t
Uo.t flow
Inesrmet- -                              4-680     -         -                 -        -
Production Costs j                 700       905  1,115    1,075    1,i20   1,160    1,204    1,247    1,290   1,335   1,376   1,419   1 462   1,484    1,500   1,517
Irrl gat-l chaorges                -         200     254       304      573      634   1,296   2,040    2,731   2,731    2,731    2,731   2,731   2,731    2,731   2,731
Medium-term Loan; Interest          -        246      246      217      187      154      119        82       40      -        -         -        -        -        -         -
lOeScorn-ter   Loanos; Prio.ipal    -         -       407      436      466      499      534       571      600      -
'oral Outflow                   70()    6,031  2,022    2,032    2,346   2,447    3,153    3,185   4,661   4,066   4,107   4,150   4,193   4,215    4,231   4,248
Net Isnlow (Oattlow)           1,04()0   2,019  1,865    2,115    2,189   2,348   2,678   3,138    3,759   5,652    6,Z68   6,920    7,567   8,235    8,469   8,710
kaso  mlodel 3 (u.5 ,a)
Tlr' low
Gross Value of Production/I    ,20         6 ,2b8  8,6350   10,176   .1,095  11,729  14,265,  17,435  20,605  23,775  26,945  28,530  29,481  30,115  31,383  31,794
Farmers' OontribLtitol  /2         -       2,925     -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
Mcuio,c-terw Credit               _5-      8     775  _-       -        - _      --_ --
Total Inflow                  2,750    17,968  8,650  10,176  11,095  11,729  14,265  17,435  20,605  23,77    76,94   28,530   29Th71   30,155   17iS3  31,794
u t flow
lwves L,scn                        -      11,700     -        -         -        --            -            -
Produoctic,, i ostS .1           1,050     2,17()  2,465   2,782    3,212    3,562    3,891    4,160    4,,285   4,410    4,536   4,659   4,820   4,910    5,120    5,284
lrrrgation Gharges                 -         438     580      696   1,310   1,449   2,964   4,668    6,74S   6,248    6,248    6,248    6,248   6,248    6,248    6,248
(4edium-Eerm Loa    In; uterest    -         614    614        543      467      385      298      225       105      -        -        -         -        -        -        -
MNu-i-ter,s.,oa,,  Pr,,,cip.l          _ i         ,0168   I589   1,165   1 247   1,33,   1,427   1 500              -        -        -         -        -        -         -
Total Outflow                  1,1050   14,942  4,677    5,110   6,574                8,4 7   10,460  1, 136  10,658        ,      T=7    T          fl7Ti   1I,368
Net lnflow (Outtlowi           1,701,    3,026  3,973   5,060,  4,941    5,086   5,778   S,975   8,467  13,117   16,191   17,623  18,413  18,957  20,015  20,262
Note:  Year 1 is eithcr 1986 or 1987.
/I  From date in Project File
/2  252 of total investment is oo-farm  works.
Source:  Mission estimates.



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery IndicesL!.
Farm Model
2          3
Net Incremental Farm Income                         15,185      66,930      143,250
Depreciation                                       1,415       5,620       11,300
- Family labor                                       5,100       6,800        6,800
- Management /2                                      3,035      15,200       28,600
- Return on own capital /3                             755       2,850        5,600
Rent                                                 4,880      36,460       90,950
Rent As Percentage of Income                            32          54           65
Water Charges                                        4,635      16,595       37,965
Rent Recovery Index                                     95          46           42
Cost of Water /4                                     7,650      27,650       63,275
Cost Recovery Index                                     60          60           60
/1  All items are incremental and discounted over 40 years at 9%.
72  At 20% of net incremental income (1).
73  10% of market value.
/4  About 87% capital cost, 13% O&M Cost; adjusted for 3-year lag.
Source: Mission Estimates



CYPRUS
KURYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(C£ '000)
1       2         3        4           5          6         7         8         9        10        11        12         13        14         15       16        17      18-25
A. Incremental Investment /I
Evretoni Dam                       190.2  2,621.8  4,646.1  1,329.4          -           -         -      -          -         -         -         -         -         -                   -          -
Upper Khrysokhou Diversion           -        -         -         -        557.5      -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
Conveyor and Brancbes                -      605.7    955.1    191.5         68.4      -         -         -         -          -         -         -                   - ' -
Irrigation Network                  -        -        784.4    809.2    802.7         -         -         -         -          -         -         -
On-farm Works                        -        21.3    125.4  1,402.1  1,566.9         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Land Acquisition                     -         3.0    128.1       47.2      -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         _          -         -         -
Groundwater Development              -        -         -         -        279.6                     -         -              -          -         -         -         -
Project Management                155,9    236.6    189.9    181.8    191.5            -        -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         _          _         _         _
Dam Construction Supervision        84.7    169.4    169.4    161.5         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -         _          _         _         _
B. Incremental 06M Costs /2             -        56.5      62.5      65.0      84.0    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9    354.9
C. Incremental Production Costs /2
Annual Crops                         -        26.0      60.0    284.0    488.4    740.0    740.0    740.0    740.0    740.0    740.0    740.0    740.0    740.0    740.0                   740.0    740.0    740.0
Perennial Crops                      -        -         -        125.7    188.6    314.4    440.0    565.5    691.7    817.5    943.2  1,006.1  1,043.8  1,081.5  1,119.3  1,157.0  1,216.0  1,257.6
D. Incremental Gross Benefits L2
Annual Crops                                  60.0    132.0    723.7  1,247.4  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  i,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2  1,890.2
Perennial Crops                      -        -         -         -        180.0    858.1  1,430.2  2,002.3  2,574.5  3,146.5  3,718.6  4,290.8  4,862.8  5,148.9  5 320.5  5,434.9  5,605.o  5,721.0
fkR:  13.92
/1 Based on project cost tables, exaluding price contingencies.
/2 Background data in Project File; Incremental Costs include replacements of small items.



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1    IBRD, Cyprus - Current Econemic Positions and Prospects for Growth
During the Five-Year Plan 1982-86, Report No. 4069-CY, January 19, 1983.
A-2    IBRD, Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities (in five volumes),
Report No. 814/82, July 1982.
A-3    IBRD, Cyprus - Fruit and Vegetable Export Project, Report No. 3367-CY,
April 20, 1981.
A-4    IBRD, Cyprus - Vasilikos-Pendaskinos Project, Report No. 2254-CY,
January 10, 1979.
A-5    IBRD, Improving Irrigated Agriculture, Institutional Reform and the
Small Farmer, Staff Working Paper No. 531, 1982.
A-6    Tropical Products Institute (TPI), Report to the Government of Cyprus
on the Markets in Various West European and Middle Eastern Countries
for Selected Fresh and Processed Horticultural Commodities (nine
volumes), TPI, London, U.K.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1    Cyprus - Khrysokhou Watershed Irrigation Project, Hdyro-Agricultural
Development, Khrysokhou Area, Feasibility Study (Main Report, 1982 and
10 annexes, 1981), UNDP-FAO, Rome, Italy.
B-2    Cyprus - Agricultural Research Institute, Annual Report for 1981,
Nicosia, Cyprus, March 1982.
B-3    Agro-Epso - Pilot Study on the Off-Season Market for Fresh Fruits and
Vegetables in EEC Countries (Final Report, 2 volumes), December 1982,
Tel Aviv, Israel.
B-4    IBRD, Fruit and Vegetable Exports from the Mediterranean Area to the
EEC, Staff Working Paper No. 321 (1979).
B-5    Landell-Mills Assoc. Ltd., The Market for Cyprus Table Grapes in Four
European Countries, 1980-81, London, U.K.



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
B-6    Sir William Halcrow & Partners in Association with A. Parastitis &
Associates, Khrysokhou Watershed Irrigation Report, Design Report
(Interim) on Hydrology and Hydraulics, February 1982.
B-7    Sir William Halcrow & Partners in Association with A. Parastitis &
Associates, Khrysokhou Watershed Irrigation Project, Evretou Dam,
Design Report, November 1982.
B-8    Sir William Halcrow & Partners in Association with A. Parastitis and
Associates, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Tender Documents for Evretou
Dam, Civil Works, Volume 1, Instructions to Tenderers, Conditions of
Contract, Specification and Appendices, October 1982.
B-9    Sir William Halcrow & Partners in Association with A. Parastitis and
Associates, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Tender Documents for Evretou
Dam, Civil Works, Volume 2, Form of Tender and Appendix Bills of
Quantities Schedules, October 1982.
B-lO   Sir William Halcrow & Partners in Association with A. Parastitis and
Associates, Khrysokhou Trrigation Project, Tender Documents for Evretou
Dam, Supply and Supervision of Erection of Water Control Equipment,
October 1982.
B-li   Department of Water Development, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Design
Note and Cost Estimate, Lowlands Main Conveyor, Nicosia, Cyprus.
B-12   Department of Water Development, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Design
Note and Cost Estimate, Irrigation Network, Sector lA, March 1982,
Nicosia, Cyprus.
B-13   Department of Water Development, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Tender
Documents for Irrigation Network, Sector 1, Part C, Tender Drawings,
March 1982, Nicosia, Cyprus.
B-14   Department of Water Development, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Tender
Documents for Lowlands Main Conveyor, Sector 1, Volumes 1J 2 & 3, March
1982, Nicosia, Cyprus.
B-15   Department of Water Development, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Tender
Documents for Installation of Irrigation Network, Sector 1, Part A,
General Documents; Part B, Specific Documents, March 1982- Nicosia,
Cyprus.
B-16   Department of Water Development, Khrysokhou Irrigation Project, Tender
Documents for Supplies for Irrigation Network, Sector 1; (Lot S1) Pipes
and Fittings, (Lot S2) Valves, (Lot S3) Hydrants and Meters; Part A,
General Documents; Part B, Specific Documents, March 1982, Nicosia,
Cyprus.



- 51 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
B-17   Geomorphological Services Limited, Evretou Dam Project - Cyprus,
Sedimentation Study, April 14, 1982.
B-18   UNDP/FAO, Khrysokhou Watershed Irrigation Project, KWIP Working Paper
DE/l, Preliminary Study of Proposed Dams and Main Conveyors in the
Polis-Khrysokhou Area, July 1980, Nicosia, Cyprus.
B-19   UNDP/FAO, CYP/177/006, Khrysokhou Watershed Irrigation Project,
Evaluation of the Groundwater Resources in the KWIP Region, Project
Working Paper No. WR/8, October 1981, Nicosia, Cyprus.
B-20   Department of Water Development, Irrigation in Cyprus, No. 1/31, March
1981, Nicosia, Cyprus.
B-21   IBRD, Appraisal of Paphos Irrigation Project, Report No. 252a-CY,
December 18, 1973.
C. Selected Working Papers
C-I    Terms of Reference
- Project Manager
- Consultants for the Evretou Dam Construction Supervision
- Panel of Experts for the Evretou Dam
C-2    Engineering and Civil Works
C-3    Commodity Prices
C-4    Farm Models
C-5    Overall value of Production; without and with Project
C-6    Crop Models
C-7    Farm Size Analysis
c-8    Production and Exports of Fruits and Vegetables



CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
System Diagram
ELEVATION ABOVE MEAN SEA LEVEL
200 _                                                                                         / UPPER KHRYSOKHOU
RIVER DIVERSION
EVRETOU
KR              W // 
KEU                                  21U
100    L                      GW                                                                                                                GW                          Ln
KIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
600                            w~~~~~~~~00
50                                                    600
CONNECTION FOR FUTURE
POSSIBLE EXTENSION
KEU  Khrysokhau East Upper                Reservoir with Maximum                600    Pipe wlth Directlon of
KR   Khrysokhou RIght                      Storage Capacity (million m3)                 Flow & Diameter
KEL  Khrysokhou East Lower
KWU Khrsokhau West Upper            0    Elevation Heodworks (m) o.m.s.l.       V       Intake Welr
537   Commrand Area (ha)
9,400  Storage CapadtyHecdworks           _____- --rigation Pipe
\~'  Overnight Storoge Ponid
]    Break Pressure Tank
GW    Flow from Goundwater Schemes



53 -
CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
IBRD FSCAL          1983                   1 984                                         1986                   198 07                 1988
YEAR__                                                                                                                                 __
ITEMS      CALENDARYEAR                        S91J3                  1954                   19SS                    '           |t        1937
Contract Award Actions
Contractors Mobilization
Construction
Divetsion Wortks                   l                             11_ i
Embankment Phrase I                        z                               O       -. 
Phrase 11
sofllv<                                 I                              r     v     r     n _            
Outlet Workls                                                                       l gum
Access
Crest
IJPPER KHRYSOKHOU
DONERS|ON
|Degns & Drawi| gs
Contract Awaor Actions
Construction
MAIN CONVEYOR & PONDS
Procurement ot Equipnrent
& Matenals
Controct Aword Actions                                       1          NEW
Construction CMI WormI
IRRIGATION NETWORK
Designs &  brrQs ot     I     I                       111111011111111  1111i
Sector 1-8 (1.200 ha)
Procurement of Equipment  |                                  -  0
& Matercias
Contract Award Actions
Sector I-A (800 ha)
Sector I-B (1.200 ha)  l                                       
Construction
Sector A                                                        0 5 |-A=                                  +1
sector I-B
(200 ha)                                                      (10ha)
ON-FARM WORKS
PLANTING & SMOOTHING                                                                                                                                              <
GROUNDWATER PJMPWEttS
Procurerrent
Instatltion                                                                                                                       -    -       -    -    -    -
BUIlDNGS & ECUIPMENT
FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Wora Bank-24570



CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Organization
PROJECT POLiCY & COORDINATION COMMITTEE
Director General Ministry ot Agriculture &
Natural Resources                       Chairman
MINISTERIAL COMMITrEE                    Director General PFonning Bureau          Member
Director General Ministry ot Interior     Member
Minister ot Finance  Choirmnn            Directo, General Ministrv ot Commerce &                                   MAIister et
Minister of Agrculture   Member           IndustrY                                 Member                         AgrIculture &
Minister of Commerce   Member            Director ot Agriculture                   Member                       Natural Resources
Minister ot Justice  Member              Director Warer Development Deportment     Secretary
Directol Generol
Agricrirturn &-                        Vnrrn&
Natural Resources                        vlution
r   - - -   -   -    -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Di,ector Gelogical  TDDErectorDWater 
rnector Oeologscal           TENDPR BOAJ?D                     Develpm Errt     &                                                Director Agriculture      [Direcor Agiricultural
Surrey Depolrtmnenec to                                                                                                              epatmewt               Research institue
Accountant General                  PoetDrco 
Rep Min ot Finance
Rep. Planning Eureau
Director Stores
Rep. Min otComrmerce                                         PROJECTAD\ISORYCOMMITTEE                       I
Drectar WD D                                                   _       _       COI                                                                                              ue
KHRVSO)KHOL             DLstrict Ofticer         Chairman
IRRIGATION PROJECT         WD. District Otticer     Member
L-------------                                          Project Manger           DA Disttct Otticer       Member                i
ProJect Manager         Membe
Farmers Representatives 2  Members
r
1                       -JIi7I    K--                                                                                         r~ 
Deputy Protect                                           IK D                                                          y e      a
Mancgrr                          I                          Administration                                     Deputy Project Managrr  L               Arre,a Reseach
Engineerinq                       I                                                                             Agricultural Development            [       Station
r
Llnit  Grou    te, Develol            - ~~Contract
bern                     esig u"nit               Graduae  -eeomn                    Accounts
(hVittr Assistance tram          'ro  n'tCon,e=r                                                                                  Entension                         vVore, 1,5e                    On-I-arm Works
Consulting Eirrnj  Construction Unit  inigotion                           Water Sales
____________           L.________-Charges Recovery                                          L
World Bank--24585



CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Fruit Production Calendar In the Project Area'
Januov    Febrary      March       Apsl       May        Juo         July      Aug    Septemb        OCtobEr   November  Decembe
FRUITS
ORANGES
Novels                                                                                                                             -
Valencia
Sharnouti
LEMONS?                                                                                                      -           -          -
MANDARINES3                                                         _ 
GRAPE FRUITS                                                                                                             -          -
BANANAS          _               _     _                                                                                               _     _
AVOCADOES,                                                                                                                 -                    -
TABLE GRAPES57        """
TABLE OLIVESr                                                                                       -                                                              Ut_
ALMONDS                                                                                           -          m
PISTACHIO NUTS
PECAN NUTS                                      I                                            i
AMR:COTS                                                 .
rtACHES                                                            _
|PUMS             __          __        ___ _ _                        _         -_       _ _ _ _            _                      _ _ _ _
Legend Harvesting iStt
I Dates of furming operations vary with location, cultivars, crop pattern, rotation & application of fesearch & extension recommendations.
I Two principal early cultivars. local Lapithiotiki with production trom beginning ot September - end ot December &
intertonado with production from Sept3rmber- November.
3 Ortanioues & Mineolas are oranges that look like mondarines & wthich produce from end ot December -the beginning of
February for the fir' antd from March to the beginning of April for the toter. Clementines are harvested in November & December.
I The cultivar Fuerte starts production trom October - end of December & the culti.ar Hass produces from January - March.
5 Early culivars ot Perlette & Cardinal are recommended.
I Green cultivars ore harvested early then tollowed by black cultivars                                                                  World Bank-24590



-g  56   -
CYPRUS
KHRYSOKHOU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Vegetable Productin Calendar In the Project Areal
2 ~~~~34
CROPS                       _           --_                                _ -_                      -
JAN IeFEB    M        AP    MAY t           lJL    AUG    SEP    OCT   NO       DEC
EARLYVKETABLES            _        .
FResh Boons                    .. ... .... ... ....
Fresh Block-Eve Peas               .. L           ..
Courgettes               ........
~~~~_Sweet N.elons .     .......... _I......... t Z
Cuoumersvb                       ..... I... I  .....
Tomatoes                 ........
_       _    _    _     _    ___
2              ~~~~~~34
CROPS               |      =         ,                               I T
JAN    FF5  I AAR   APR   MAY   JUN    JLJL   AUG    SEP   oa   NOV   DEC
SUMMER VEGEtABLES
Fresh Beans                                         . ....
Fresh Block-Eye Peas                               .........
Courgertes                                 -
Cucumbers
SwAeet Melo0ns.........
Water Melons                                       ................
Aubergines                                   .           ......
Peppers                 |.|._...._.i                  |  I    -.
Tomatoes                I.                    I  I             ..
r._,o ____r
I     [        ~~~                              ~~2  3      4
CROPS
JAN    FEB  -MAR    APR   MAY   JUN    JUL   AUG    SEP   OCT | NOV   DEC
LATE & WINTER VEGETABLES   |
Courgottes                                                                              .   ......
Aubergines                                                                    .....l.
PePpers                                                                     .        .......
Tomoatoes                ;                                                          ......
Haricot Bears                                                    
Peas Green                                                                                  ...........
Onions Dry =
Onions Fresh
Caboages                                                                                       .. .........}i  _1'! 
Fresn Broad Beans       |  _.
Legend: Sowing Period -  -  -    Growing Penod ......... Harvesting Penod          .
'Dates of torming operations vary w ith location. culhvars. crop pattern, rotation &
application of research & exsensior i recommencations.
Worlo Bank-24591



I



I       -     -    -   .  -1-    I        .     -71    1-1 .- .11.11-11 .. .....



C Y P R US                                                                                                                                                                           Df /IR/½NC  ,
K HRYSO KHOU   IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                            okk,.r
7    Irrigation Development Area
PROPOSED:
Intake                                                                                                                                                                                                K - t
Conveyor
Reservoir
Roads                                                                            D
CAPE ARNACUrI                                          Contours in meters
'- Rivers
0       <                                                    > /             <         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,g.k. Mago.,d.                  _                     X((J
Neokho ,                  Pr dh\rrI
-35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            foAndroCkal tOO C,rternonrenot1 of tho  35-
-oad- and S / toosIcOfr O,,, th
G. dhl                                                                                                                                 "It-If I- bf ThI, W111d B-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rrrnfrSothoVni Bn
an,d the tntprraof ,dr
Kkol  D-                                                                                                                                    th b-d.,-  1,,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uSdad h Orndrn O w
Part of The WoHtd tOank -d thO
Dh ~~~~~~~~~~~ha                                                                                                                                       1,dqb,-t - th,, 1,g,,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O tafrne  innetoprorr
an y rdtont. on th  g ,   tn
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-                                                                                                                                               1 \,  -ato .. .Ss></S/3v 4 
a (S>~~~~~~~rdhes                                                                                                       SMou% PX I  _ MF/J/I5RAIVE A /V    S E A<
<  0  = < ArsdbeX t u vt [)brt-9 }2_< g~Ar                                                                               Ph dhe  Y.  hy                                                                                                     Ky (<)  -. ag
CAPE DREPANUM                                                          _                                                                    A- \
\   Peprao<J                                           )      32030.olemJ                    <g1/g                       \                                         ~X5Lrmvasol2Z30'                                                             D



