Report No. PID7066
Project Name                     Jordan-Third Economic Reform and (@)
Development Loan (ERDL-III)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Trade, Finance, Regulatory, Privatization
Project ID                       JOPA45676
Loan Amount                      US$75.0 million
Implementing
Agency                           Government, represented by the Ministry of
Planning as main coordinator.
Contact Dr. Abderrzaq Bani Hani,
Fax No. 9-626-649341
Initial PID                      November 20, 1997
Appraisal Date                   May 1998
Projected Board
Date                             February 18, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.              The Government's Economic and Social Development Plan for 1993-1997
stipulated a range of broad principles which are intended to guide the future
course of the national economy. The first principle is the "liberalization
of the economy and its institutions, elimination of distortions obstructing
sound economic performance, and development of an appropriate investment
climate."
2.              In a subsequent medium-term policy framework paper, the Government
in September 1995 further articulated and updated its vision of the path to an
open, competitive, business-friendly environment for the end of the 1990s.
The goal would be to deepen and extend macroeconomic stabilization, trade
liberalization, financial sector reform, legislative reform, and adjust the
role of the state to promote a better climate for private sector development
and competitive investments.
3.              Maintaining macroeconomic stability would provide the necessary
basis for structural and sectoral reforms which would reduce the reliance on
external financing, redress long-term structural imbalances, and enhance the
prospects for sustainable long-run growth. In this regard, the Government has
strengthened the incentives to save through tax reform and rationalization.
Continued adoption of strong fiscal adjustment measures, would boost public
sector savings. The Government would also continue to adopt and improve
indirect monetary control mechanisms, such as open market operations, to
reduce the costs of financial intermediation and to improve the incentives for
financial savings.
4.              Extending trade liberalization and greater integration into world
markets would create the incentives for firms to improve their efficiency and
technical standards so as to realize their export potential. In this regard,



the Government is actively: (a) assuring potential investors of its medium-
term trade liberalization objectives; (b) negotiating accession to the World
Trade Organization; (c) pursuing the ratification of a Partnership Agreement
with the European Union; (e) further reducing the level and dispersion of
tariffs and eliminating most tariff exemptions; (f) setting internationally
accepted product standards; (g) streamlining customs procedures; and (h)
improving the duty drawback and temporary admission mechanisms for imported
inputs to export production.
5.              Financial sector deepening - efficiently providing a variety of
financial services for investors and savers to choose from - in order to
mobilize savings for real sector growth, channel them to the best investments,
and enable the financial sector to become a growth center in its own right to
enable it to compete in serving the regional economies. The Government's
reforms are designed to improve competition and efficiency in this sector; and
will foster the development of long-term financing instruments, both equity
and debt, which are not yet widely available. To this end, the Government is
formulating, or has begun to implement, plans to: (a) enhance banking
competition; (b) strengthen bank supervision; (c) facilitate the access of
companies to corporate bond financing, and the development of secondary
markets for long-term papers; (d) facilitate the development of non-bank
financial institutions, such as leasing, factoring, and venture capital
companies; (e) modernize and computerize trading in shares and the structure
of the Amman Financial Market; (f) lift restrictions on the foreign exchange
interbank market; (g) facilitate the development of contractual savings
institutions (insurance and pension funds), and strengthen their role as
suppliers of long-term finance; (h) open up for full foreign ownership in
almost all sectors; and (i) institute full capital mobility.
6.              The Government is convinced that long-run sustainable growth rests
on a growing role of the private sector and redefinition of the role of the
state in the economy. To this end, Government policy actions will focus first
on liberalizing the regulatory framework affecting business entry, operation
(including pricing policy), and exit; as well as separating policy,
regulatory, and business operation functions. In 1995, Parliament amended the
Income Tax Law and the GST Law, and enacted a new Investment Law. The latter
has made approval of investments more automatic, removed the ceiling on
foreign investment, granted national treatment to foreign investors, adopted
international practice in dispute settlement, and created more efficient tax
incentives for investors. The Government is now in the process of revising
the entire set of business laws. In spring 1996, a new Companies Law and a
new Securities Law were enacted. In a second, overlapping phase, the
Government intends to privatize public enterprises and divest Government
holdings in public shareholding companies. It is already selling its shares
in hotels, and has announced its intention to privatize the Jordan
Telecommunications Company, the Jordan Electricity Authority, and Jordan
Cement Factories.
7.              An important concomitant measure is to ensure that the reforms are
politically and socially robust and to address poverty in the short term
through the provision of compensatory mechanisms (consistent with the outward-
oriented growth goal) for the poor and those who may suffer temporarily from
these reforms. The Government has adopted a broad strategy to address the
problems of poverty and unemployment, prepared with collaboration of the World
Bank. The "Social Productivity Program" (SPP) has two "tracks". The first
- 2-



is a set of measures directly targeting poverty and unemployment including
improving and extending the income transfer program to all poor households,
and strengthening the microenterprise sector. The second track is a broader
and longer-term program to address the underlying requirements for increasing
social productivity through improvements in health, education, information and
technology, infrastructure, and governance. This second track gradually
absorbs the first as the poor are brought actively into the mainstream of
social and economic life.
8.              In support of the Government's medium-term adjustment and structural
reform program, the IMF approved a three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in
May 1994 (SDR 127 million). The Bank supported the program through an Energy
Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL), and an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan. The
adjustment efforts have been supported also by successive debt rescheduling
(March 1992, July 1994, and May 1997) through the Paris Club, by a Debt and
Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) operation with the London Club, and a debt buy-
back arrangement with the former Soviet Union. Official bilateral debt
reductions were granted by several creditor countries (US, UK, Germany,
France) in the order of $1.2 billion.
9.              In order to further support the Government's reforms, the Bank
approved the First Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-I) in the
amount of $80 million in October 1995 with cofinancing of $80 million from
Japan and $12 million from Italy. After successful completion of scheduled
reviews under the IMF program, Jordan entered into a new extended arrangement
(EFF) with the IMF in February 1996 in an amount equivalent to SDR 200.8
million. This was augmented in February 1997 with an additional SDR 37.24
million. In support of the structural reforms, the Bank disbursed ERDL-II in
the order of $120 million in December 1996 with $8 million equivalent
cofinancing from the Netherlands. On the occasion of a Consultative Group
meeting in July 1996 donors expressed strong support for the Government's
program.
Project Objectives
10.             The key objective of the project is to support the Government's
reform program which is aimed at sustaining high economic growth with exports
playing a major role. Hence, policy direction supported by this loan is the
removal of remaining trade and investment barriers; a closer trade relation
(an Association Agreement) with the European Union and accession to the World
Trade Organization. To benefit from a better integration in the world economy
the loan supports the Government's efforts to broaden and deepen financial
intermediation, to provide an enabling business environment and increase the
private sector's share of the economy through privatization of public and
publicly-owned enterprises. This is expected to reduce uncertainty, raise the
level and efficiency of investments and lead to accelerated growth.
Furthermore, the proposed loan would provide Jordan with short-term balance of
payments support in order to strengthen its international reserves position.
Project Description
11.             The ERDL-III supports trade and investment policy reforms to:    (a)
further reduce anti-export bias, foster integration with world markets, and
reduce transaction costs from administrative obstacles, through tariff reform
and rationalization, and modernization of the Customs Law and administration;
- 3-



(b) improve banking competition and the efficiency of financial
intermediation; (c) improve viability of financial institutions; (d) encourage
long-term saving and promote development of new financial instruments and
markets; (e) encourage entry, improve incentives, and offer national treatment
to foreign investors; (f) modernize a broad range of business laws; and (g)
improve opportunities for private sector firms, increase competition, allow
the Government to concentrate on its core functions, and achieve greater
efficiency through privatization and restructuring.
12.              Technical Assistance. The ERDL-II is accompanied by technical
assistance projects in the areas of freeports, privatization, legal reform,
and financial sector reform. These projects are financed by grants from the
Bank's Institutional Development fund, Japan's PHRD funds, and USAID.
Financing Plan
13.              The Bank loan will disburse in one tranche.
Project Implementation
14.              The Ministry of Planning will be the principal coordinating agency,
with the support of an implementation committee comprising the Ministry of
Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank of Jordan.
Poverty Category
15.              Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
16.              The proposed operation has no direct and significant
environmental impact.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Christian Petersen
MNSED
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Tel: (202) 473-3965
Fax: (202) 477-0432
CPetersen@WorldBank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 27, 1998.
- 4 -



