Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21848
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-44820; TF-28227)
ON THE THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN (ERDL III)
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT
June 19, 2001
Social and Economic Development Group (MNSED)
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective end-December 2000)
Cutrrency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1.00 = USS 1.42
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.704
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASE          =             Amman Stock Exchange
CAS          =             Country Assistance Strategy
CBJ          =             Central Bank of Jordan
CG           =             Consultative Group
EFF          -             Extended Fund Facility
EPC          =             Executive Privatization Commission
ERDL         =             Economic Reforrn and Development Loan
ESW          =             Country economic and sector work
EU           =             European Union
FJCC         =             Federation of Jordanian Chambers of Commerce
GDP          =             Gross Domestic Product
IMF          =             Intemational Monetary Fund
IRC                        h Insurance Regulatory Commission
JBA          =             Jordanian Businessmen Association
JIB          =             Jordanian Investment Board
JSC          =             Jordanian Securities Commission
JTC          =             Jordan Teleconmmunications Company
MOF          =             Ministry of Finance
MOP          =             Ministry of Plarning
MTEF         =             Medium-term Expenditure Framework
NEPCO        =             National Electric Power Corporation
OED          =             Bank's Operations Evaluation Department
RJ           =             Royal Jordanian Airlines
SDC          =             Securities Depository Center
USAID        =             United States Agency for International Development
WTO          =             World Trade Organization
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Joseph P. Saba
Sector Director:    Mustapha K. Nabli
Sector Manager:    Dipak Dasgupta
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Thirumalai G. Srinivasan             X



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
-5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                      7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       8
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      9
9. Partner Comments                                                                   10
10. Additional Information                                                            10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  13
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  14
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  15
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performnance                                    16
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 17
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P045676                                        Project Name: ERDL III
Team Leader: Thirumalai G. Srinivasan                      TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Tye: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ERDL III                                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-44820; TF-28227
Country/Department: JORDAN                                                Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/02/1997                               Effective: 07/01/99            07/01/99
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                                 MTR:
Approval:  06/01/1999                               Closing: 06/01/2000           06/01/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
Other Partners:  USAID, Government of Italy, EU
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:     Inder K. Sud                               Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:      Dipak Dasgupta                             Daniela Gressani
Team Leader at ICR:   Francois Lacasse                          Christian Petersen
ICR Primary Author:   Sulaiman Wasty
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Introduction
Since the balance of payments crisis of the late 1 980s and the disturbances associated with the
Gulf war, Jordan has made resolute stabilization and adjustment efforts, supported by the IMF,
the Bank, the European Union (EU), USAID, and other bilateral donors. But, in recent years the
pace of economic activity had lost its momentum as the construction boom that followed the Gulf
war ran its course and Jordan continued to face impediments to trade with neighboring countries.



In 1998, Jordan was also affected by the sharp drop in international oil prices--which led to the
weakening of the regional economy and increased domestic uncertainlity, and a marked decline in
remittances from expatriate workers--and by regional tensions over Iraq. These developments
had put pressure on the budget and limited improvement in the balance of payments.
With this background, the centerpiece of the Bank's assistance under the country assistance
strategy (CAS), approved in 1995, was to encourage private sector-led growth through Jordan's
integration with global markets and the establishment of an investment-friendly and efficient
business environment. In the event, Bank support was extended through a program of three
adjustment operations for the rapid introduction of structural reforms and broad economic
developments as well as for the strengthening of international reserves. The first Economic
Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-I) was approved in the amount of US$80 million in
October 1995 with co-financing of US$80 million from Japan and US$12 million from Italy. The
second adjustment operation, ERDL-II, in the amount of US$120 million was approved in
December 1996 with US$8 million equivalent co-financing from the Netherlands.
The latest in the series of these loans--ERDL-III--was approved in June 1999 in the amount of
US$120 million; and aimed at continuing the Bank's important involvement with the
Government's medium-term structural reform program. Concurrently, a new Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) of the IMF was approved for 1999-2001. The reforms are also being supported by
the United States through the Middle East and Stability Fund, co-financing by the Government of
Italy, and parallel financing by the European Union.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The successive series of Economic Reform and Development Loans (ERDLs), starting in October
1995, were aimed principally at supporting Jordan in addressing constraints to rapid and sustained
growth imposed by the limitations of a relatively small domestic market. The main objective was
to assist the GOJ in pursuing its cross-cutting reforms for strengthening integration with the
global markets and establishing an investment-friendly and efficient business environment.
ERDL-III specifically focused on: (a) further trade facilitation and export development, leading to
a sustained growth of exports; (b) a comprehensive program of privatization, leading to a an
efficient production and incentive structure; (c) an all-encompassing financial sector reform,
leading to efficient resource mobilization and allocation; and (d) streamlining the regulatory
framework, leading to a stable and transparent environment attractive to private business and
enabling these businesses to compete aggressively in the world markets. In sum, the policy
package supported by the Loan was expected to lead to higher GDP growth supported by a
robust export performance and a much greater role for the private sectOr competing in an enabling
legal framework.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
-2-



Evaluation of Objectives
The objectives were highly relevant, straightforward, and consistent with the Bank's goals as
stated in the CAS (private sector-led growth) as well as in conformity with Jordan's long-term
development strategy. Simultaneously, the assurance of sound macroeconomic policies had been
strengthened by GOJ's adoption of the Fund's Extended Fund Facility. However, with hindsight,
the main identified risks--(a) reversals in the regional peace process; and (b) changes in external
demand for Jordanian goods and services--should have cautioned against overplaying the
expectations of a rapid private sector response to changes in the incentive regime and the
concomitant attainment of growth targets. For example, both the public and the private sectors
were "new" to the rules of the game and the institutional change warranted by the broad-based
reform program; and, in this setting, changes in the policy, regulatory, and legal environment are
necessary but not sufficient conditions for efficient and rapid economic growth.
3.3 Original Components:
ERDL-III, like the preceding operations in the series, consisted of a set of trade, privatization,
financial sector, and accompanying regulatory reforms. Trade reforms focused on facilitating
trade, fostering integration with world markets, reducing administrative obstacles that raise the
cost of trading activity through streamlined customs procedures for exports, and converting the
entire Aqaba area into a freeport with a First World environment. Privatization measures were
aimed at improving opportunities for private sector firms, increasing competition, and allowing
the government to concentrate on its core functions. And, the broad program offinancial sector
reform initiatives were designed to: (a) enhance the soundness and efficiency of the banking
system, and promote the development of the capital market and long-term savings institutions; (b)
improve banking competition and supervision, and increase the efficiency of financial
intermediation through modernization of the institutional and legislative setup; (c) encourage
long-term savings, and promote development of new financial instruments and markets; and (d)
facilitate entry, and improve incentives for domestic and foreign investors.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory.
The reform program had been initiated and "owned" by the Government itself (as enunciated in
the "Economic and Social Development Plan, 1993-97), and thus served as the basis of a
continuing partnership and teamwork with the Bank counterparts.
The design of the broad-based ERDL program followed a "programmatic approach" to
adjustment lending. The program was thus built upon the success of the predecessor operations,
providing yardsticks and benchmarks for follow-up. The earlier ERDLs (I and II) had achieved
overall good implementation, both receiving OED ratings of satisfactory outcomes and likely
sustainability of benefits.
-3 -



Further, a set of reforms (not objectives), to be pursued under ERDL-III, was split into a series of
simpler steps; hence, proper sequencing became one of the strengths of the operation.
Additionally, the single-tranche disbursement nature of the ERDL operations (exemplifying
programmatic approach to adjustment lending) served as a good mechanism for attaining a clear
understanding with the GOJ on the nature of loan conditionality and the prior actions to be taken
in the context of the implementation of the program.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall outcome was satisfactory. With the timely and successful implementation of ERDL-III,
the reform program becomes a foundation and the first step, albeit a crucial one, for the GOJ's
long-term economic development strategy. So far, the odds have played heavily against high
expectations of an early recovery of the Jordanian economy. Especially, in the course of 2000,
repercussions of the reversals in the regional peace process (badly affecting the promising tourism
sector and the flow of Jordanian exports to the Palestinian territories), rise in international oil
prices, and agricultural output affected by drought--all dampened hopes of an upward economic
trend.
Although the anticipated GDP growth has failed to materialize and the private sector has not
responded fully to changes in the incentive regime, the measures adopted to date will go a long
way toward transforming Jordan into a growing market economy. With the strengthening of the
financial sector, an "investment culture" is now emerging; and, according to JIB, there are some
encouraging signs of foreign investment applications and sanctions. Overall foreign investment
rose to JD800 million in 2000, up JD70 million from 1999. Additionally, the latest MOP/MOF
figures show a slight improvement in the revised GDP estimates for FY00 (3.9 percent); and a 4
percent growth rate is being projected for FY01.
In termns of poverty reduction (though not an explicit target of the ERDL program), ERDL I had
begun to make some positive contribution. Analysis (cf: Poverty Alleviation in Jordan in the
1990s: Lessons for the Future (Report No. 19869-JO) of trends of consumption poverty in
Jordan and the impact of government programs (including food subsidies and cash transfers) on
poverty alleviation indicated that: (a) the percentage of Jordan's population below the poverty line
was less in 1997 than it was in 1992; (b) there was a clear reduction in inequality, which led to a
lower poverty rate in the latter year; and (c) there is now a much better targeting of government
programs and assistance to the poor. Given the weak economic growth, the impact of ERDL III
on unemployment and poverty remains uncertain. Especially with little rise in per capita incomes,
the improvement in the living conditions of the poor would need to be commensurately addressed.
4.2 Outputs by components:
All the prior conditions attached to the ERDL-II1 loan package of trade policy, privatization,
financial sector, and the regulatory reforns have been met--receiving a highly-satisfactory rating
- 4 -



for borrower performance. The Government was able to accomplish all the requisite legislative
and incentive changes as stipulated in the ERDL prograrn. However, shortcomings still remain in
the full implementation of the above policies and the realization of their intended results. Further
institutional changes leading to better implementation of the regulations will need to be addressed
by pursuing measures such as public sector reform.
Substantial progress has been made in the trade liberalization program. Maximum import tariffs
continue to be reduced for the purposes of stimulating efficiency and competition. Earlier, in July
1999, tariff rates on 700 intermediate goods and industrial inputs had already been reduced to 35
percent from 40 percent. More recently, a full exemption from tariffs was granted to 494
industrial inputs and maximum tariff was reduced to 30 percent. The Customs Department
calculates that these steps have reduced the weighted average tariff rate from 16.6 percent at the
end of 1998 to 13.5 percent by mid-2000.
Progress in trade policy reform has thus enabled Jordan's accession to the WTO (in April 2000).
The Law on the General Sales Tax was amended to harmonize GST rates on domestic and
imported goods. Through changes in the Customs Law, customs administration procedures have
been adopted for valuation of goods and rules of origin consistent with WTO principles. "Green
channel" facilities have been extended to a vast number of exporters including all IS-9000 certified
companies. Amendments to the laws for trademarks, patents, and copyrights, among others, were
made to ensure that all provisions of TRIPS (trade-related intellectual property rights) are
implemented from the date of accession. Jordan has also embarked upon several regional and
bilateral initiatives to reduce trade barriers. Examples are the Euro-Mediterranean partnership
agreement with the EU, which is to lead toward a free trade zone in 2010; and bilateral
agreements with several countries including a free trade agreement with the United States.
Aqaba has been designated as a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in February 2001. The SEZ is
expected to bring in $6 billion in direct and indirect investments and create 70,000 jobs over the
next two decades.
The privatization program, which was previously coordinated by a special unit in the Prime
Minister's office, had been targeted at straightforward privatizations, such as the sale of
govenunent minority stockholdings in companies operating on commercial principles. Following
the approval of a comprehensive privatization strategy, the pace has picked up through a
full-fledged Executive Privatization Commission (cf: July 2000 Privatization Law) with enhanced
responsibilities for identifying and evaluating the targets for privatization. Already, good overall
progress has been made in the duration of ERDL-III in selling government shares in enterprises,
contracting private management, and permritting new private entry into several sectors--including
cement, tourism, airlines, railways, public transport, electricity, telecommunications, and other
commercial enterprises.
During ERDL-III, an agreement with a foreign-led consortium to operate, upgrade, and extend
the Aqaba railway, involving expected involvement of $110 million, has been finalized. Four
concessions have been awarded to operate public transport routes in Amman, allowing the Public
Transportation Corporation to be phased out and replaced by a Public Transportation Authority.
- 5 -



A significant proportion (40 percent) of the Jordan Telecommunications Company (JTC) has been
sold to a foreign consortium, which has become an operating partner. The Royal Jordanian (RJ)
has been split into an operating unit carrying out core airline operations and a holding company
managing subsidiaries offering support services; and plans are underway for sales of businesses in
areas such as flight training operations, and engine maintenance. The National Electric Power
Corporation (NEPCO) has also been split into three companies covering separately generation,
transmission, and distribution.
Lastly, thefinancial sector in Jordan is now relatively more developed, in termns of both the
services provided and the degree of monetarization. Considerable progress has been made toward
facilitating and strengthening financial internediation by the Jordanian financial system--banks,
non-bank financial institutions, contractual institutions, and the securities market. Of particular
note is the new Banking Law in conformity with international practice including Basle agreements
on banking supervision. Measures for prudential regulation and supervision of banks have been
introduced. Restrictions on capital mobility have been eliminated by the adoption of a full
convertibility of the JD for all current and capital account transactions. As already noted, an
investment culture is being nourished since the enactment of new Securities Law, establishment of
the Jordan Securities Commission (JSC), and the functioning of the Amman Stock Exchange.
In other areas of regulatory reforms, the Investment Law of 1995 and its amendment in 1997 had
already rationalized incentives for investment and removed bottlenecks in encouraging foreign
investment levelling the playing field for domestic and foreign investors except in three sectors
(construction contracting, trading, and mining). Since then, procedural guidelines to implement
the Law have been completed. Further, additional and accompanying legislation (Companies,
Competition, etc.) are being taken to remove anomalies and inconsistencies to encourage
domestic and foreign investment while ensuring adequate competition.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact has been high. Enormous progress has been made toward
enacting the regulatory framework, creation of the attendant autonomous public entities (e.g.,
JSC, IRC, and EPC, staffed by professionals in the field) and the building of institutional
infrastructure and implemention capacity for sustaining the reform. These new organizations are
now operating successfully. International standards are now the norm in virtually all regulatory
functions--be it in banking supervision, reforming the capital market, or the regulation of the
ASE, or the monitoring of the Securities Depository Center.
Members of the Jordanian business community (FJCC/JBA) interviewed welcomed the country's
accession to the WTO, and expressed confidence with the direction of policy changes.
Nonetheless, the "new rules of the game"--both for the private and the public sectors--will take
- 6 -



some time to be fully entrenched in the economy.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Much of the country's poor growth performance in the second half of the 1990s results from
exogenous factors, such as weak demand in the region and impediments to trade with the
neighboring countries. Specifically, Jordan's failure to attain the expected private sector response
to changes in the incentive regime and in not attaining the anticipated growth rate can be largely
attributed to: (a) the uncertain security situation in the region; (b) the exaggerated windfalls from
the "peace process"; and (c) the vulnerability of the Jordanian goods and services to the economic
conditions in the Gulf markets.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As already indicated, the GOJ was able to implement virtually all the components of the ERDL
package. However, excessive concerns with maintaining macroeconomic stability may have led
the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) to follow initially an overly-cautious monetary policy. High
interest rates have been an impediment to private investment. Simultaneously, the tight fiscal
stance of the MOF may have had adverse short-term effects on aggregate demand. All these
factors may have put brakes in the attainment of the growth targets.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Given the broad-based nature of the ERDL program, several new agencies had to be created and
new regulations devised. Accordingly, inter-agency consultation and coordination has not always
been the norm, leading to lack of widespread consensus on the timing of reform and, thereby,
some implementation delays.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reforms is highly likely. Government commit.ment (at all levels) to the
ERDL program remains strong throughout, and will further strengthen with the realization of the
aims of the adjustment effort. Concurrently, there is an emerging consensus amongst the broader
segments of the society on the benefits of reform, as evidenced from frequent
government-business consultations. Privatization plans are well underway; and financial sector
reforms are entrenched. And, as Jordan has joined the WTO, trade and investment policy
reforms are likely to be emphasized.
However, without accelerated implementation, i.e., developing needed regulations to support the
- 7-



new business legislation and capacity building of new institutions set up under the ERDL
program, the impact of the reforms will continue to remain limited.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Structural impediments to the growth of the Jordanian economy are to be addressed with
enhanced diagnostic ESW (e.g., Sources of Growth study). A follow-up operation is
contemplated to address issues of public sector management, with particular attention to:
productivity of public investments, formulation of a medium-term expenditure framework
(MTEF), civil service reform, financial management, efficiency and delivery of public services, and
transparency and accountability.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. ERDL-III represented a continuum of vital Bank support to the GOJ reform efforts.
Under the auspices of Consultative Group (CG) meetings, and in addition to resource generation,
donors have been able to coordinate their lending programs. For example, the USAID program
of $300 million over a five-year period--while focusing mostly on microfinance for economic
opportunities--overlapped considerably with the Bank's emphasis on customs administration
reform, privatization, and financial sector strengthening. Simultaneously, the IMF approved a
new EFF in 1999 in support of the Government's medium-term adjustment and structural reform
program.
Nevertheless, supporting provision of technical assistance funds could have greatly benefited the
operation in terms of strengthening the capability of the executing agencies, especially in area of
customs administration.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The single-tranche disbursement had already incorporated all the conditions prior to
loan approval. Some mechanism could have been set in place for overseeing the implementation
of the policies and regulations.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. ERDL-III was marked by excellent preparatory work, and continuity of a highly
competent Bank team. Still, the operation could have been accompanied by concurrent economic
and sector work (ESW) on the structural constraints that were facing the anticipated growth of
the Jordanian economy.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly satisfactory; largely attributable to a frank and informal dialogue between the Bank staff
- 8 -



and highly-professional government counterparts.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Highly satisfactory. All the important sub-components of ERDL-III related to trade policy and
administration, privatization, investment regulation, andbanking reforms were implemented in
accordance with the loan conditions. The next step is an accelerated implementation of the
enacted policy changes.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly satisfactory. Drawing from the lessons of ERDL experience, the MOP has now enhanced
its research and coordination capabilities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Highly satisfactory, especially while maintaining macroeconomic stability and contending with the
recent security situation in the region.
8. Lessons Learned
To reiterate, the successful implementation of ERDL-III owes to several factors: (a) facilitation
by the building blocks and the necessary impetus provided by the preceding ERDL operations,
particularly their broad coverage and programmatic structure; (b) the single-tranche disbursement
serving as a useful mechanism because of a clear understanding on the prior actions to be taken by
the Government; (c) a frank and informal dialogue between the counterparts at all stages of the
program; and (d) last but not least, a throughout strong government commitment in sustaining the
pace of reforms.
Yet, in terms of outcome, the stagnant (recent signs of improvement notwithstanding) growth rate
of the economy and its concomitant threat to poverty alleviation effort remains a persistent
concern. While the Government continues to successfully meet the challenges of maintaining
macroeconomic stability, the volatility of the economy increases commensurately with the security
situation of the region, translating into less-than-anticipated domestic and foreign investment.
Recommendations
- conducting an in-depth study of the constraints and obstacles to the growth of the Jordanian
economy, with a direct involvement of Jordanian officials and academics (a "Sources of Growth
study" is already underway);
- undertaking the Bank's Business Environment Survey (WBES) in Jordan to get the views of the
business on the enabling environment for the private sector; and
- pursuing wide public sector reforms--with a focus on formulating a MTEF, adequacy of public
investment programs, institutional arrangements for budgetary decision making (e.g., introducing
an automated government financial management information system), civil service performance,
efficient delivery of public services, and increasing productivity of investments--public and private.
-9-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
On the ICRs for ERDLs I and II, the GOJ has already conveyed its comments and agreement on
the successful implementation of the respective loans (cf: Appendixes to Report Nos. 16319 and
17919).
During a mission in late November 2000, the ERDL-III ICR findings were discussed with the
GOJ. There is a broad concurrence on the outcome, institutional development, and sustainability
ratings--as well as on the assessment of Bank and borrower performance. Formal comments from
the Borrower on this report are attached:
Partner_Comments.p
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
The findings of this ICR corroborate and reinforce the conclusions of the ICRs for ERDLs I and
II.
An OED Performance Audit Report (PAR) for ERDLs I-III and Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
(ESAL, Loan 3651) is under preparation.
- 1 0 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Not applicable in the case of adjustment operations.
- 11 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
US$120 million, in a single-tranche disbursement of the adjustment operation.
- 12-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic/financial rates of return cannot be calculated for adjustmnent operations.
- 13-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and, Specialty              Performa Rafing
(e.g. 2 Eooists, I1 FMS, etc.)       Imnplementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                        Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/16/97                    4   Economists
2   FMS
3   Consultants
I   Co-financing Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/10/97                    3   Economists                            S               S
4/13/99                     2   LEG                                   S               S
Supervision
6/13/99                      3   Economists                           S               S
I   Country Officer                     S                S
ICR
11/26/00 to                 I    Consultant
11/30/00
(b) StaJf:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/L tst -Estimat
:_____:: __________               No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)3
Identification/Preparation                46.4                        415.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                     21.5                        170.3
Supervision                                1.5                         10.6
ICR                                        6.0                         25.0
Total                                     75.4                        620.9
- 14 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
OSector Policies                           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
D Physical                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
F Financial                                *H OSUOM ON ONA
F Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
OII Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NIA
O Private sector development               0 H  0 SU OM  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 15 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                          0OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
X Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
Preparation                                         * HS O S  O  U  O HU
X Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
1 Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S   0 U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 16 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- President's Report and Recommendation for the Third Economic Reform and Development
Loan (Report No. P 7306-JO), April 30, 1999.
- Complete project documentation/reports on file.
- List of officials from the Government and agencies interviewed during mission in November
2000.
- 17-



