Document of the
International Finance Corporation
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7306-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO US$120 MILLION
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
April 30, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
IFC authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS (As of April 1999)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)           JD 1.00 = US$ 1.43
USS 1.00   JD 0.708                             JD 1.00 = fils 1,000
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFM                    Amman Financial Market
ASE             =       Amman Stock Exchange
ARC                     Aqaba Railway Corporation
ASAL            =       Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS             =       Country Assistance Strategy
CBJ                     Central Bank of Jordan
CD              =       Certificate of Deposit
CG             =        Consultative Group
DDSR            =       Debt and Debt Service Reduction
EFF             =       Extended Fund Facility
EPU             =       Executive Privatization Unit
ERDL           =        Economic Reform and Development Loan
ESAL                    Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
EU                      European Union
GDIC           =       General Bank Deposit Insurance Corporation
GDP            =       Gross Domestic Product
GST            =        General Sales Tax
IDECO           =       Irbid District Electricity Company
IFC                     International Finance Corporation
IMF            =       International Monetary Fund
ISA             =      Insurance Supervision Agency
ITPAL           =      Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
JCF            =       Jordan Cement Factories
JEA             =      Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO          =        Jordan Electric Power Company
JIC             =       Jordanian Investment Corporation
JISM                    Jordanian Institute for Standards and Metrology
JSC             =      Jordan Securities Commission
JTC             =      Jordan Telecommunications Company
JWA                     Jordan Water Authority
Ma'in           =       Ma'in Spa
NEPCO                   National Electric Power Company
NPC             =       National Petroleum Corporation
NPV                     Net present value
PTA             =       Public Transport Agency
PTC             =       Public Transportation Corporation
QIZ            =        Qualified Industrial Zone
RJ              =       Royal Jordanian Airlines
SDC             =       Securities Deposit Center
SDR            =        Special Drawing Right
SSC                     Social Security Corporation
SPP            =        Social Productivity Program
USAID           =       United States Agency for International Development
WBG                    West Bank and Gaza
WTO             =      World Trade Organization
WAJ             =      Water Authority of Jordan
GOVERNMENT OF THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FISCAL YEAR: January 1 - December 31
Vice President                     Kemal Dervis
Chief Econornist and Director      John Page
Country Director                   Inder Sud
Task Team Leader                   Christian Petersen



Fl:R OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN  AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY  .............................................................i
PART I. THE ECONOMY .............................................................1
Background .............................................................1
Macroeconomic Stabilization 1994-95 .....................2.......................................2
Slow  Growth 1996-97 .........................................                                    .     . 3
Recent Economic Developments ......4...................................4
Medium-Term  Prospects and Financing Plan ..........................................5
The Macroeconomic Program  for 1998 .........................................7
PART 1[. THE PROGRAM  SUPPORTED  BY  ERDL-M  ...............                                 ...........................8
Trade Policy and Export Development ......................................... 10
Financial Sector and Legal Reform .........................................                                 10
Banking System  ......................................... 11
Financial Markets .........................................                                        11
Privatization .........................................                                                     12
PART I. THE PROPOSED LOAN .........................................                                                  14
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION .........................................                                                    16
Annexes
I.       Letter of Development Policy
Attachment. Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
11.      Statement of Bank Loans and IDA  Credits and IFC Investments
Im.   Key Economic Indicators
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Third Economic Reform and Development Loan
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Amount:              US$120 million.
Terms:               Repayment according to the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate
for US Dollar single currency loans, with 17 years maturity, including 4
years of grace.
Loan Objectives:     A key objective of the series of Economic Reform and Development
Loans (ERDLs), of which this is the third, is to support Jordan in
addressing constraints to rapid and sustained growth imposed by the
limitations of a relatively small domestic market. The Government's
cross-cutting reforms are aimed at strengthening integration with global
markets and establishing an investment-friendly and efficient business
environment. ERDL-RI, by supporting further trade facilitation and
export development, would lead to a sustained growth of exports and
tourism earnings; through a comprehensive program of privatization,
would lead to an efficient production and incentive structure; through all-
encompassing financial sector reform, would lead to efficient resource
mobilization and allocation; and finally, through streamlining the
regulatory framework, would lead to a stable and transparent environment
that is attractive to private business and enables them to compete
aggressively in the world markets.
Loan Description:    The Loan supports a set of trade, privatization, financial sector, and
regulatory reforms. It would further facilitate trade, foster integration with
world markets, and reduce administrative obstacles that raise the cost of
trading activity through streamlined customs procedures for exports and the
planned conversion of the entire Aqaba area into a freeport with a First
World environment. It supports a broad program of financial sector reform
initiatives designed to enhance the soundness and efficiency of the banking
system and promote the development of the capital market and long-term
saving institutions. It would improve banking competition and supervision
and increase the efficiency of financial intermediation through
modernization of the institutional and legislative setup. It would encourage
long-term savings and promote development of new financial instruments
and markets. It would facilitate entry and improve incentives for domestic
and foreign investors.   Through privatization, it would improve
opportunities for private sector firms, increase competition, and allow the
Government to concentrate on its core functions.



- ii -
Benefits:             The policy package supported by the Loan would lead to higher GDP
growth supported by a robust export performance and a much greater role
for the private sector competing in an enabling legal framework. It would:
(a) strengthen the incentives for export production through reducing the
import costs of capital goods and intermediate goods; (b) benefit domestic
consumers by lowering the costs of imported consumption goods; (c) boost
national income growth and alleviate poverty; (d) improve resource
efficiency and raise factor productivity; (e) help Jordan to attract direct
foreign and domestic investment; (f) facilitate Jordan's move toward closer
trade relations with the European Union (EU) and regional economies; and
(g) through support to Jordan's balance of payments, strengthen
macroeconomic stabilization, increase international reserves, and reduce
vulnerability to external shocks.
Risks:                The main risk is associated with reversals in the regional peace process.
Macroeconomic stability may be adversely affected by external shocks in
terms of possible adverse capital movements or changes in external demand
for Jordanian goods and services. There is also the risk that despite the
expectation that reforms would benefit the bulk of the population, vested
interests may succeed in arguing against the reforms.
The political liberalization initiated has provided a democratic process for
conflict resolution, thus contributing to social and political stability.
Nevertheless, after three years of negative growth per capita, unemployment
and poverty are increasing. If another three years of negative growth in
incomes is to materialize, this may bring about strains in social cohesion.
The proposed ERDL-I focuses on private sector growth generation.
Maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework, including a realistic
exchange rate and an appropriate interest rate policy, would enable Jordan to
better cope with external shocks that could take place from changes of
capital flows. The assurance of a sound macroeconomic framework has
been strengthened by the adoption of a new IMF Extended Fund Facility
(EFF).
Disbursement:         The loan would be disbursed in one tranche of US$120 million.
Financing Plan:       The United States is supporting the reforms through the Middle East Peace
and Stability Fund in the order of US$200 million. The Government of Italy
has pledged ITL 20 billion in cofinancing. The EU has decided to parallel
finance ERDL-II-the exact amount is yet to be confirmed.
Poverty Category:     Not Applicable.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESID:ENT
OF T-HE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT LOAN TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Third
Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-HI) to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for
US$120 million. This loan would be disbursed in one tranche to provide financial support for
the trade, financial sector, and legislative policy reforms, as well as the privatization program that
the Government is implementing as part of its medium-term Economic Reform and Development
Program. This program is described in a Letter of Development Policy (LDP) from the
Government (Annex I), and summarized below (paras. 30-35). The loan would be at the Bank's
standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans, with 17 years maturity,
including 4 years of grace.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
BACKGROUND
1.       Since the balance of payments crisis of the late 1980s and the disturbances associated
with the Gulf war, Jordan has made resolute stabilization and adjustment efforts, supported by the
Fund, the Bank and selected bilateral donors. However, in recent years the pace of economic
activity has lost momentum as the construction boom that followed the Gulf war ran its course
and Jordan continued to face impediments to trade with neighboring countries. In 1998, Jordan
was also affected by the sharp drop in international oil prices, which led tc a weakening of the
regional economy and a marked decline in remittances from expatriate workers, and by regional
tensions over Iraq. These developments have put pressure on the budget and limited the
improvement in balance of payments. Global integration through continued and rapid progress
with the all-encompassing structural reform program is the key to mitigating regional
vulnerability.
2.          Fifteen years of economic boom in Jordan ended with the fall in the mid-eighties
of the price of oil and subsequent declines in workers' remittances (primarily from the Gulf),
external financial assistance, and exports. Average annual growth during 1983-89 was under one
percent. By 1989, Jordan's inability to meet its external obligations precipitated a crisis which
led to an IMF-supported stabilization program and a major Paris Club rescheduling. With the
advent of the Gulf crisis in 1990, Jordan faced the new challenge of disruptions of aid and trade,
and the return of 300,000 Jordanians from the Gulf area, which pushed unemployment up to
about 20 percent.
3.          Since 1989 the Government has pursued an ambitious refornn agenda in order to
stabilize the economy, improve efficiency, and broaden the role of the private sector. Fueled
primarily by a major inflow of savings from Gulf returnees, in addition to external debt relief and



-2-
new concessional aid, real GDP rebounded in 1992 with growth of 16 percent. Growth averaged
7 percent p.a. during the period 1993-95, while inflation declined to less than 4 percent.
4.          Concerted IMF, Bank and Donor Support. In support of the Government's
medium-term adjustment and structural reform program, the IMF approved a three-year EFF in
May 1994 (SDR 127 million). After successful completion of scheduled reviews under the EFF
program, the Fund in February 1996 replaced the previous EFF ahead of time with a new one, in
an amount equivalent to SDR 200.8 million, which represented 55 percent of Jordan's quota on
an annual basis. The EFF was augmented in February 1997 with an additional SDR
37.24 million equivalent. A new EFF for 1999-2001 was approved on April 15, 1999, in the
order of SDR 127.88 million equivalent together with a CCFF of SDR 34.1 million equivalent.
5.          The Bank supported the reform program through an Industry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL) in 1990, an Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) in 1993, and an
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) in 1994.
6.          The centerpiece of the Bank's assistance under the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) approved on October 24, 1995, was a program of three adjustment operations to support
rapid introduction of structural reforms and broad economic development, as well as to
strengthen international reserves. The first Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-D)
was approved in the amount of US$80 million in October 1995 with co-financing of
US$80 million from Japan and US$12 million from Italy. The second adjustment operation,
ERDL-ll, in the amount of US$120 million was approved in December 1996 with US$8 million
equivalent co-financing from the Netherlands. The proposed ERDL-lI would continue the
Bank's important involvement with the Government's medium-term structural reform program,
which is expected to be fully implemented within the next three years.
7.          The adjustment efforts have also been supported by successive debt rescheduling
(February 1992, June 1994, and May 1997) through the Paris Club, by a Debt and Debt Service
Reduction (DDSR) operation with the London Club, and by a debt buy-back arrangement with
the former Soviet Union. Official bilateral debt reductions were granted by several creditor
countries (US, UK, Germany, France, Italy, and Switzerland among other) in the order of
US$1.2 billion. Substantial donor assistance has been mobilized through three Consultative
Group (CG) meetings (January 1993, May 1994, and July 1996).
MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION 1994-95
8.          The economy's response to the Govermnent's wide-ranging efforts was strong and
immediate: GDP growth averaged 7.5 percent over 1994-95, inflation was maintained in the 3-
3.5 percent range; the fiscal deficit, excluding foreign grants, fell sharply from 18 percent of
GDP in 1990-91, to 5.3 percent of GDP in 1995. The external current account deficit also
declined from 18 percent of GDP in 1993 (excluding official grants) to 8.8 percent in 1995.
External debt/GDP ratio fell from the exceptionally high level of 175 percent in 1991 to
103 percent during this period, thanks to discrete debt buy-back operations and write-offs by
creditors.



-3 -
9.          Against this positive background, Jordan continued to face large but falling
unemployment (currently around 15 percent) and some balance of payment, difficulties. Its low
domestic savings rate resulted in a weak although improving current accouLnt balance. Its large
indebtedness and difficult external environment resulted in a low reserve position. The already
fragile external position was weakened further by significant redemption of Jordanian Dinars by
Palestinians in anticipation of future currency arrangements in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG)
that would marginalize the use of the JD in the WBG. The Dinar suffered several speculative
attacks in 1994 and 1995 which were resisted at the cost of large foreign reserves' losses. By
early 1996, with available international reserves at less than one month of imports, improving the
reserves position had become a central preoccupation of the Authorities, the Fund, and the Bank.
SLOW GROWTH 1996-97
10.      The healthy growth experienced during 1992-95 unfortunately did not continue. Real
GDP growth in 1996 slowed down to 1.0 percent and was followed by 1.3 percent in 1997. At
least three factors caused the poor performance in 1996: (i) the construction sector had overbuilt,
and with 50,000 empty dwellings activity fell by 6.4 percent; (ii) exports to Iraq fell by 50
percent, or about 2 percent of GDP; (iii) capital outflows to West Bank residents necessitated real
lending rates of 10 percent, and the tight monetary stance was accentuated further due to fiscal
slippage. Subsequently in 1997, the Asia crisis hurt exports of potash and fertilizers, while
construction activity and agricultural production fell even further.
11.      The external current account deficit (incl. official grants) narrowed to 3.3 percent of
GDP in 1996 and a small surplus was achieved in 1997, thanks to an increase in workers
remittances, but the capital account deteriorated as public sector receipts and transfer of workers'
savings declined. Despite signs of ongoing redemption in the WBG, the Authorities managed to
increase the reserve level to US$700 million by end 1996 (2.1 months of imports), and the
reserves had accumulated to a more healthy US$1.7 billion (51/2 months of imports) by end 1997.
Important steps were also taken in 1996 towards fiscal consolidation, mainly through
containment of expenditures including an important reform of the food and animal feed subsidy
system. However, due to the impact of slow growth on tax revenues, the budget deficit (excl.
grants) widened to 7.8 percent in 1996 and stood at 7.7 percent in 1997.
12.     In 1996-97, the Authorities continued a wide ranging structural. reform agenda, with
support from the Fund and from the Bank with the implementation of ESAL, ASAL, ERDL-I and
ERDL-II. Beyond the reform of the subsidy system and introduction of new safety nets, the
reforms encompassed additional steps to improve the General Sales Tax (GST) administration,
further regulatory measures in the financial sector aimed at strengthening the banking system and
the capital market, steps to prepare for privatization, reduction of the maximum tariff rate from
50 to 40 percent, elimination or reduction of tariffs on many imported capital goods, and new
measures for trade facilitation. Jordan also pursued partnership negotiations with the EU and
signed an Association Agreement in November 1997 which aims at totally eliminating duties on
goods imported from the EU by year 2010.



- 4 -
RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
13.         The Economic Situation and Evaluation Committee estimates that real GDP at
factor cost grew by only 0.6 percent in 1998. Real GDP at market prices grew at an estimated 2.2
percent because of substantially higher effective taxation of petroleum products. The depressed
level of economic activity was particularly pronounced in agriculture and construction, although
there have recently been indications that the decline in construction may begin to bottom out.
Consumer price inflation was very low during 1998, at only 0.5 percent, reflecting depressed
domestic demand and declining international commodity prices.   Mainly because of
administrative price increases that took place in the second half of 1997, the year-on-year change
in the consumer prices was substantially higher at 4.5 percent.
14.         The budget deficit (before grants) rose by 3 percentage points of GDP in 1998, to
10.7 percent of GDP (including rescheduled interest), as government expenditure increased
substantially while revenues increased only slightly in relation to GDP. Collections from
customs duties improved sharply, partly reflecting administrative improvements and reductions in
exemptions. Income tax and non-GST domestic indirect taxes declined, however, because of the
slowdown in economic activity in 1997. On the expenditure side, there was an increase in capital
outlays and in several categories of current expenditure, including transfers to decentralized
agencies and public enterprises. The rise in recorded spending also reflected a broadening of the
coverage of the expenditures to include outlays that were previously off budget, amounting to
more than 1 percent of GDP, and the clearance of arrears. The large budget deficit was reflected,
inter alia, in substantial net domestic financing of the government, amounting to nearly 6 percent
of GDP.
15.         Monetary developments in 1998 were dominated by fluctuations in demand for the
Jordanian Dinar and the government's heavy recourse to domestic bank financing. Broad money
grew at 7.6 percent in 1998, somewhat faster than nominal GDP and close to the rate observed in
1997. However, the composition of the deposit base shifted heavily in favor of foreign currency-
denominated deposits, as a result, first, of the regional tensions early in the year, and later due to
domestic uncertainties starting in July. This dollarization together with private capital outflows
led to a fall in the Central Bank of Jordan's (CBJ) net international reserves (excluding gold and
required reserves held against foreign currency deposits), from US$1.7 billion at end- 1997 to less
than US$1.2 billion (4.0 months of imports) at end-1998. Thus, while the net foreign assets
(NFA) of the banking system as a whole increased modestly in 1998, the NFA position of the
CBJ deteriorated markedly.
16.         In response to the loss in reserves, the CBJ acted decisively to raise interest rates
to support the exchange rate and maintain international reserves. The benchmark interest rate on
the CBJ's certificates of deposits (CDs) was increased from about 6.5 percent in the spring of
1998 to more than 10 percent in August. Rates on other central bank instruments were raised in
parallel, and the central bank introduced overnight deposit and repurchase facilities in order to
control interbank rates more precisely. Corresponding to this increase in rates, commercial
banks' liquidity was maintained considerably below the ample level that had prevailed in the last
quarter of 1997.



- 5 -
17.         Despite the weakness of the regional economy, the external current account
(including grants) remained essentially balanced in 1998; excluding grants,, the current account
deficit was slightly reduced to 4.8 percent of GDP. Exports decreased by 4 percent, reflecting
mainly declines in exports to countries in the region, as a result of special factors. Excluding
these declines, exports grew by close to 6 percent, with an especially strong performance of
exports of fruits and vegetables; manufactured exports and traditional exports increased in both
value and volume terms. In addition to the fall in exports, net workers' remittances, declined by
8.2 percent, due to the regional slowdown and the domestic uncertainty. These declines,
however, were offset by a 6.5 percent fall in imports, resulting partly from lower oil import
prices. At the same time, the capital account (including errors and omissions) shifted into deficit,
reflecting large private capital outflows during the second half of the year. As a result, the overall
balance shifted from a surplus of 4 percent of GDP in 1997 to a deficit of over 1 percent of GDP
in 1998.
MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING PLAN
18.         The overall macroeconomic objectives are to steadily raise economic growth
toward levels that will allow per capita incomes again to increase, maintain low inflation, and
strengthen the international reserves position. In the short term, however, economic growth is
expected to be held back by the continued depressed level of economic activity in the region, and
impediments to Jordan's exports to neighboring countries. Indeed, in 1999 output growth
(measured by real GDP at factor cost) may be limited to about 1 percent, that is, a decline of
2 percent in per capita terms. Subsequently, economic growth is expected to pick up as export
growth resumes, supported inter alia by several large investments in the mining sector.
Implementation of the structural reform program would, over time, also contribute to export and
GDP growth. Nevertheless, per capita growth may not turn positive until 2002. Year-on-year
inflation should be in the range of 2-3 percent. The external current account deficit is projected
to rise somewhat in 1999, in part because of continued weakness of remittances, then would
narrow to about 5 percent of GDP (2 percent after grants) by 2001.
19.         These macroeconomic objectives are to be pursued through fiscal consolidation,
prudent monetary policy, and wide-ranging structural reforms. Following the slippages in fiscal
policy in recent years, the budget deficit will be reduced to 7.9 percent' of GDP (4.2 percent of
GDP after grants) in 1999, as envisaged in the 1999 budget, and further f;o about 4 percent of
GDP (1.4 percent of GDP after grants) over the subsequent two years. This budget path should
go a long way toward restoring confidence in financial stability, notably by ensuring a significant
reduction in the ratio of public debt to GDP. Also, by largely eliminating the need for domestic
financing of the budget, it would create greater room for credit to the private sector, facilitate a
reduction in interest rates, and contribute to the strengthening of the external position.
20.          The structural reform program will aim at improving efficiency and creating the
foundation for a resumption of economic growth and a sustained improvement in living
1 This includes non-treasury expenditures of 0.9 percent of GDP.



-6 -
standards. Given the large share of government in the economy, this objective requires
reconfiguring and reducing the role of the public sector. At the same time, the composition of tax
revenue would be re-oriented from trade-based to consumption-based taxation, and distortions
would be reduced by continuing with the process of tariff reform and developing a full-fledged
VAT. With respect to tariff reform, the Government envisages that the maximum tariff rate will
have been reduced to 30 percent by early 2000, and will consider further reductions later on
provided that the overall economic situation strengthens as expected.  As regards public
expenditure, the Government is developing, in collaboration with the Bank, a comprehensive
strategy for raising its effectiveness and enhancing its social impact.
21.         Debt and Creditworthiness. Jordan faced a debt crisis in 1989, triggering
negotiations with the Paris and London Clubs. However, agreements were not reached before the
Gulf crisis, during which Jordan unilaterally suspended debt service payments. Jordan then
significantly reduced its London Club debt by a series of buy-backs at highly discounted prices,
before reaching a Brady deal in 1992. In 1994, Jordan replaced the 1992 Paris Club arrangements
by a three-year agreement.  In May 1997, Jordan received an 18-year nonconcessional
rescheduling on Houston terms of about US$400 million of debt service falling due to the Paris
Club between June 1997 and February 1999. As a result of decreasing new borrowing, debt buy-
backs at substantial discounts, and debt reductions totaling US$1.2 billion to date, the debt/GDP
ratio has been reduced from 175 percent in 1991 to 101 percent in 1997, and is expected to fall to
about 100 percent by 2000. Jordan is in arrears with some non-Paris Club creditors with whom
negotiations are still ongoing. As these arrears do not emanate from the imposition of restrictions
on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions they do not
constitute a payment restriction under IMF Article VIII.
22.         With a strong adjustment and structural reform program in place, Jordan is
moving towards the ranks of moderately indebted countries, as the ratio of the net present value
(NPV) of debt to GDP is around 100 percent and the NPV of debt to exports ratio about
120 percent. The debt service (cash basis) to exports ratio is below the 25 percent mark, where
liquidity concerns arise. In 1995, Standard & Poors' and Moody's assigned their first rating to
Jordan's foreign debt, both at speculative grade, two or three notches below investment grade
(BB- and Ba3 respectively). In September 1997, a US$100 million corporate bond issue from
Jordan Phosphate Mines Company was issued at LIBOR plus 155 basis points, which set a new
benchmark for international investors' perception of Jordan.
23.         An important concomitant measure is to ensure that the reforms are politically and
socially robust and to address poverty in the short term through the provision of compensatory
mechanisms (consistent with the outward-oriented growth goal) for the poor and those who may
suffer temporarily from these reforms. The Government has adopted a broad strategy to address
the problems of poverty and unemployment, prepared with collaboration of the Bank. The
"Social Productivity Program" (SPP) has two "tracks". The first is a set of measures directly
targeting poverty and unemployment including improving and extending the income transfer
program to all poor households, and strengthening the microenterprise sector. The second track
is a broader and longer-term program to address the underlying requirements for increasing social
productivity through improvements in health, education, information and technology,



- 7 -
infrastructure, and governance. This second track gradually absorbs the first as the poor are
brought actively into the mainstream of social and economic life.
24.         The first track, which commands a higher priority, is being implemented in phases
during the next ten years.  Its main investment component would improve essential
infrastructure in low-income communities through the Community Infrastructure Program
(US$140 million for phase 1), supported by a US$30 million Bank loan with bilateral donor
cofinancing. Another pilot-scale component (US$6 million) would test ways to help the
unemployed poor by linking vocational training better with market demand, and to improve the
labor market intermediation system. The Bank is supporting this through the Training and
Employment Support Project. Microenterprise development would rely on three thrusts:
capacity building for NGOs and others involved in microenterprise finance (financed by United
States Agency for International Development, USAID), commercial bank lending, and business
bureau nonfinancial services to microenterprises.  The National Aid Fund would be
strengthened and its funding increased to reach more effectively its current target group, and to
launch an innovative Family Income Supplement program which would fill part of the poverty
gap of poor families without eroding work incentives.
THE MACROECONOMIC PROGRAM FOR 1999
25.         Fiscal policy. In line with the policy framework, the government will target a
reduction in the budget deficit to 7.9 percent of GDP, excluding grants. Revenue is projected to
increase by the equivalent of about 2 percent of GDP while expenditure in relation to GDP is to
be cut by 1.4 percentage points. The revenue target will be supported by an increase in the GST,
from 10 percent to 12 percent, concurrently with a reduction in GST exemptions. Measures will
also be adopted to strengthen the collection of the income tax and the GST. The yield from these
measures, however, will be partially offset by a reduction in the maximum customs tariff rate
(from 40 percent to 35 percent) and the lowering of tariffs on industrial inputs to 10 percent. The
targeted reduction in expenditure will be achieved mainly through the elimination of the food
cash transfers, and cuts in current transfers to public enterprises and capital expenditure. In
conjunction with the removal of the food cash transfer, the price of standard bread was lowered
by 25 percent, largely reflecting the fall in the international price of wheat., but still involving a
small subsidy; the government is committed to support this lower price for a period not
exceeding one year.
26.        In 1998, the consolidated overall balance of the four major entities in the public
sector--the Water Authority (WAJ), the National Electric Power Company (NEPCO), Royal
Jordanian (RJ), and the Jordan Telecommunications Corporation (JTC)--was equivalent to about
0.8 percent of GDP. For 1999, the Governrnent has required that public enterprises adopt fully
financed budget plans aimed at improving their financial performance. Such an improvement
would reflect a strengthening of the operations of WAJ due to improved tariff collection and
recovery of overdue payments. The operational improvements in the other entities related to
their restructuring and privatization efforts will also contribute to containing the combined
overall balance.



- 8 -
27.         Monetary policy. The monetary program of the CBJ is designed over time to
restore a safer level of official international reserves while maintaining low inflation. To this
end, the program is based on a rate of broad money growth broadly in line with that of nominal
GDP. The reduction in the budget deficit and greater financial discipline in the rest of the public
sector are expected to leave adequate room for an expansion in credit to the private sector, while
allowing a necessary buildup in international reserves. Interest rate policy will continue to be
dictated by the dual objective of keeping within credit ceilings and rebuilding international
reserves, while preserving the stability of the exchange rate.
28.         External sector policies. The financial policies described above are expected to
contain the external current account deficit at about US$420 million in 1999 (excluding grants),
equivalent to 5.5 percent of GDP. This projected small increase in the deficit would reflect a
pickup in imports by the private sector, associated with the expected modest recovery in
economic activity, and some increase in import prices. Exports of goods are projected to
increase by 1.6 percent in volume terms on account of, inter alia, moderate growth in traditional
exports in line with regional demand and growth of nontraditional exports. Services exports,
including workers' remittances, are projected to increase only slightly. The current account
deficit will be covered mainly by multilateral and bilateral financing in support of the structural
reforms, as well as medium- and long-term capital inflows.
29.         Together with the Economic Reform and Development program supported by
ERDL-IH as described below, these policies would contribute importantly to lifting domestic
savings and promoting higher rates of investment, growth, and exports, in the context of low
inflation and a strengthening of the balance of payments. However, the achievement of higher
and sustainable growth will also depend on the timely availability of external financing on
appropriate terms. On the basis of the external current account projections and the necessary
reserve buildup, gross external financing requirements (net of private inflows unrelated to
privatization) are currently estimated at US$1 billion in 1999 and a total of US$3 billion over
1999-2001.
PART II. THE PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY ERDL-II
30.         Jordan's main sources of growth and employment are expected to be exports and
tourism. However, developments in the external environment are not making it easy to create
more jobs and equity. World trade is going to be less buoyant in the next couple of years and
Jordan's main export markets have weakened.
31.         Jordan must reorient trade and find new markets for new and high value-added
goods. It must take the opportunities opened by the signing of the partnership agreement with
the EU, the Qualified Industrial Zone (QIZ) arrangement for tax- and quota-free access to the
U.S., and the gradual opening of Israel and the WBG. This restructuring is not going to happen
overnight, and the Asian crisis and its resolution is only intensifying competition. To compete
and increase market shares on first world markets, Jordan must have a first-world business and
investment environment, a first-world public administration and legal system, and transparency
and fairness in every step of life.



-9 -
32.         Jordan's private sector creates about 80 percent of total value added and must be
the focus of efforts to accelerate growth--which needs to be on the order of 8 percent in order to
reduce joblessness among the rapidly expanding labor force. The core strategy for rapid growth
is well known: to create a competitive business environment; foster the skills and capabilities the
market needs; promote the efficient use of labor and capital; build an effective public
administration with a service instead'of a control culture; and ensure that all the people share the
benefits of growth, with special emphasis on low-income groups.
33.         Jordan has made great strides since 1989 towards these goals. But much remains
to be done. The proposed ERDL-Il provides continued support from the Bank for the
Government's strong reform program which aims to generate foreign exchange earnings that are
sufficient to promote investment and growth and a level of foreign exchange reserves that is
sufficient to withstand major external shocks.
34.         The proposed ERDL-UI would continue to support increased competition and
trade facilitation. In particular it aims to build up a modem, computerized and competitive
financial system coupled with best-practice business laws. The privatization program aims at
increasing productivity and lowering costs of important logistical infrastructure components,
such as telecommunication, transport, and energy. Collectively, this package would profoundly
boost the supply-side of the Jordanian economy and enable private businesses to reap the foreign
exchange income from potential markets in neighboring countries, the EU, and the U.S.
Activating institutional investors and financial intermediation will stimulate domestic resource
mobilization and improve the efficiency of resource allocation and term transformation.
Similarly, privatization, in addition to increasing efficiency and investment, could fetch large
amounts of foreign currency, which would contribute directly to strengthening of the
international reserves position. The Government has worked consistently on implementing this
strategy for some years now and the Bank is determined to support the ambitious reform program
and its rapid implementation until completion.
35.         The Jordanian Economic Reform and Development Prograrri is supported by the
Bank through an intensive partnership and teamwork. Continuous technical assistance is
provided for implementation of the program. These efforts are to a large extent funded through
trust funds and donor contributions. Full implementation of the wide-ranging program is
expected to take several more years. The new laws need to be approved by Parliament and
properly implemented; associated regulatory institutions developed; and there is a need for
training of judges, lawyers, and business support organizations, as we'll as communication
programs for the public at large, and the commercial and industrial community through business
chambers and associations. Similarly, complicated privatization transactions for large public
infrastructure providers take time and require continuous attention. The ERDL program must be
viewed in this medium-term framework, in which the Government and the Bank with support of
the donors, as a closely knit team are working together to implement a shareid and great vision.



- 10-
TRADE POLICY'AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
36.         The Government's efforts to liberalize the external sector are continuing.
Effective March 2, 1997, the import tariff regime has been reformed substantially. All import
duties and fees were consolidated, the maximum tariff rate was lowered from 50 percent to
40 percent (except on alcohol and tobacco), and the number of tariff bands was reduced from 10
to 6. The reforms included a lowering of the maximum tariff on cars to 40 percent and the
imposition of an additional GST. Tariffs on 492 capital goods were eliminated and those on an
additional 218 were lowered to 10 percent. As a result, the weighted average tariff rate is
estimated to have declined steadily from 17.5 percent in 1994 to 15.1 percent in 1996 and
14.5 percent in 1997.
37.         Further reductions in tariff rates are scheduled for end-June 1999, when the
maximum tariff will be reduced to 35 percent, and tariffs on industrial inputs will be reduced to
10 percent. Jordan is also seeking to benefit from increased integration in the global economy.
This measure depends on the Parliament's approval of a compensatory increase in the GST. To
this end, the Government is negotiating for accession to the WTO. The Association Agreement
with the EU was signed in November 1997.
38.         The Government has taken measures to further facilitate customs clearance
through enactment of a new Customs Law (January, 1999), computerization and adoption of the
ASYCUDA system and implementation and extension of a green channel for imports of
exporters.
39.         The Government has taken a big step forward by declaring the plan to turn the
whole Aqaba area into a freeport similar to Batam, Jebel Ali and Subic Bay. The proposal calls
for a first world environment in terms of legal framework, regulatory procedures, infrastructure,
production facilities, and easy access through a world class port and airport. A successful
freeport will offer excellent prospects for generating foreign exchange earnings from export of
goods and more importantly services, attracting a sizable volume of direct foreign investment and
generating ample employment opportunities for Jordanian citizens. The QIZ agreement, which
provides quota-free exports to the U.S. for goods produced at the Irbid industrial zone, is already
attracting considerable investor interest.
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND LEGAL REFORm
40.         During the past several years the Government has been undertaking a bold and
comprehensive modernization reform program for the financial sector. The program aims at
strengthening legal and regulatory capacity of supervisory agencies for the capital markets,
insurance, mutual funds and banking. The strategy is to integrate Jordan into the global market,
make Jordanian companies attractive to Arab and foreign investors, consolidate international
reserves and adopt an interest rate policy that promotes investment and growth, increase the
banking sector's efficiency and improve competition, expand the availability of medium- to long-
term finance for investments, activate institutional investors, and increase the absorptive capacity
of the capital market--a pre-requisite for successful privatization.



41.         The program consists of wide ranging legal and regulatory reforms reflecting best
international practice and would allow the Jordanian financial market to integrate with the global
market. The return of 300,000 Jordanians from the Gulf during the war lead to an unprecedented
increase in the stock market in 1992-93. Since then stock prices have been falling until recently
and liquidity in the capital market has dried up. Investors, including large institutional investors,
have put their money in bank deposits instead, and up to recently the very tight monetary stance
has prompted the banks to buy CDs instead of channeling the funds back to productive
investments. Given the fall in money demand associated with JD redemption on the WBG, this
policy was highly appropriate. However, the redemption has now ceased and international
reserves have increased to a somewhat more comfortable level. The reforms support a strategy to
reorient investors' portfolio preferences back towards the capital market and channeling funds
into productive investments.
42.         The components of the ongoing financial sector and legislative reforms are
summarized below. The program is comprehensive and aims at coherent development of
institutions and market instruments across the entire financial sector. This parallel approach is
preferable in order to avoid systemic imbalances that may otherwise occuIr during the transition
period.
Banking System
43.         Banking Law. A new banking law replacing the 1972 banking legislation has
been presented to Parliamnent in April 1999. This law will: (i) redefine the scope of the banking
business; (ii) set prudential regulations in terms of loan classification, provisioning and credit
limits; (iii) define clear licensing procedures; and (iv) strengthen the aulhority of the CBJ to
intervene in problem banks, including bank liquidation procedures.
44.         Deposit Insurance. A new legislation will establish a bank Deposit Insurance
Corporation (DIC) that will offer insurance on banks' deposits. This Law is being reviewed by
the Legislative Council and will be presented to the Parliament in the near fature. The legislation
will set the coverage limits and the funding arrangements to be covered largely by banks.
Although not involved in supervision, the DIC will have the legal authority to liquidate or place
in receivership banks declared insolvent by the CBJ.
45.         Furthernore, the capital adequacy ratio was raised from 10 to 12 percent, and
reserve requirements for investment banks raised to 14 percent to equalize those of commercial
banks. Finally, the CBJ has computerized the check clearing system, and is modernizing the
entire payment system.
Financial Markets
46.         The Securities Market. A modem Securities Law was enacted in June 1997,
which separates the regulatory functions from stock exchange trading and from the depository,
the latter two functions privately managed. The Law is being fully implemented over two years.
Most rules and regulations have been enacted. The Jordan Securities Commission, the Amman



- 12 -
Stock Exchange and the Securities Deposit Center have been established. Surveillance, trading,
and depository systems are now being computerized.
47.         Trust Law. While the Securities Law and amendments to the Companies Law
and Tax Law provide the legal basis for mutual funds, a Trust Law, scheduled to be submitted to
Parliament mid-1999, will establish proper fiduciary requirements and standards. Together with
the mutual funds regulations currently being drafted, this would create an enabling legal
framework for professional private sector fund management.
48.         Secured Financing and Leasing Law. The Government intends to allow for the
diversification of financing options by creating nonbank financial services through leasing,
factoring, and venture capital companies. The draft enabling legislation, including suggested
amendments to the Companies Law and the Tax Code, has gone through very extensive review
with private sector stakeholders and has been submitted to the Government for adoption. A
computerized Registry for Movable Property will be established to facilitate the implementation
of the new legislation.
49.         Insurance Law. A new law based on EU-standard solvency margins has been
approved by the Cabinet and presented to Parliament. A new independent Insurance Supervision
Agency (ISA) will be created to monitor insurance companies' compliance with the new
requirements. A 2'/2-year twinning arrangement with experts from the Irish Insurance Controller
Office has been signed.
50.         Accounting, Auditing and Financial Disclosure.  A  21/2-year technical
assistance program is now being implemented, that will perform a complete legislative and
institutional review on accounting, auditing and financial disclosure practices. The capacity
building component of the program will include an extensive training program for the profession
as well as formal peer reviews.
PRIVATIZATION
51.         The Jordanian state-owned enterprises were concentrated mainly in the
infrastructure sectors (transport, electricity, water, and telecommunications).  Furthermore,
through the Jordanian Investment Corporation (JIC), the state-owned investment agency, the
Government had substantial share-ownership in mining and cement companies listed on the
stock-market, and minority share-holdings in a number of small and medium-sized companies
across several sectors, including various financial institutions.
52.         The Government's economic strategy calls for a much larger role for the private
sector in the economy and reduction in its own involvement in the production and distribution of
goods and services. The Government has started opening up some of the sectors previously
closed to private investors such as telecommunication, transport and power generation. A new
public-private partnership is being forged to build mutual trust and better understanding of each
other's concerns. A strategy for privatization across many sectors of the economy has been
approved by the Parliament.



- 13 -
53.         The privatization program will aim at raising enterprise efficiency. Sale of shares
to reputable strategic investors could improve the operational performance of public enterprises
that currently suffer from administrative interventions, limited autonomy, inradequate investment
capital, and poorly designed incentive structures. Other objectives of the divestitures would be to
develop the securities market through public share offerings by increasing investment and
diversification opportunities to both institutional and retail investors, and to consolidate public
finances by reducing subsidies and fiscal drain, and by increasing the tax base.
54.         Institutional Framework for Privatization. Implementation of the privatiztation
program in a transparent manner remains a key objective of the Government. To this end, the
institutional framework for privatization has been established. The Cabinet-appointed inter-
ministerial Higher Privatization Committee for steering the overall privatization program is
meeting regularly. The privatization implementation unit set up in the Prime Ministry, called lL-
Executive Privatization Unit (EPU) has been functioning since end of 1996.
55.         Transactions. Several entities within the telecommunications, tourism, energy,
industrial, transportation, mining and water sectors currently are being privatized. The status of
these transactions are:
*  With respect to Jordan Telecommunications Company (JTC), policy issues such as tariff
rebalancing, employees' early retirement plans, dividends and licenses are being addressed.
Unfortunately, a bid failed for the sale of 40 percent of JTC to a strategic investor, with
management control. The privatization strategy is now being reevaluated.
*  The contract has been signed for a thirty-year concession for the Ma'in Spa of the Jordan
Tourism and Spa Complex.
*  The strategic sale of 33 percent of the shares of Jordan Cement Factories (JCF) has been
completed.
*  For the privatization of the Public Transportation Corporation (PTC), route franchises of
5-7 years have been awarded to private sector operators to run routes in Greater Amman. A
liquidation manager for the company has been hired.
*  The contract for operation and investment in the railway line of Aqaba Railway
Corporation (ARC) will soon be ready to be awarded. The Government is concurrently
addressing labor issues in Ma'an, the ARC company town.
*  In the first stage of privatization, Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA) was transformed into a
public shareholding company under the name of National Electric Power Company
(NEPCO). The Government has subsequently separated NEPCO into three companies which
will carry out the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity respectively. The
generation and distribution companies are to be privatized, while the transmission company
will remain in the public sector.



- 14 -
*  A four-year performance based management contract has been awarded for Jordan Water
Authority (JWA). This transaction is being supported by a separate World Bank Loan.
* Royal Jordanian Airlines (RJ) is being privatized in three phases: (i) financial restructuring
(balarnce sheet restructuring to result in an adequate debt/equity ratio and other desirable
attrib,utes); (ii) legal restructuring (transformation into a private company, creation of an
adecuate regulatory framework);'and (iii) sale of equity stake with management control to a
str ategic investor. The Cabinet approved the restructuring and privatization strategy for RJ
'on July 15, 1997. A new chairman has been appointed, who is responsible for leading the
privatization of RJ. The financial and legal advisers are currently working out detailed
proposals.
PART III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
56.         Design of the Loan. The proposed loan is designed as a single tranche loan to
support policy actions taken prior to Board presentation. It responds to a Government request for
support for its intensified adjustment efforts. It would represent a continuation of the support
provided under ERDL-I and ERDL-II, recognizing the successful policy performance under those
loans and the comprehensive program of medium-term structural reform, described above, that is
already well underway. The proposed ERDL-Il and the new EFF are complementary.
Privatization, trade liberalization, legislative reform, and other measures to improve enterprise
and financial market efficiency, supported by the Bank, will complement macroeconomic
stability established in the context of the EFF program.
57.         The proposed loan is fully consistent with the CAS discussed by the Board on
October 24, 1995. The centerpiece of the Bank's assistance under the CAS is the series of three
adjustment operations to support rapid introduction of broad economic reforms. This program,
of which ERDL-M is the third in the series, is phased to support macroeconomic stability during
the reform implementation period.
58.         Loan Objectives. An important policy direction supported by this loan is the
removal of remaining trade and investment barriers paving the way for higher economic growth and
export earnings, a closer trade relation (an Association Agreement) with the EU, and accession to
the WTO. Further objectives are to broaden and deepen financial intermediation, to provide an
enabling business environment and increase the private sector's share of the economy through
privatization of public and publicly-owned enterprises. This is expected to reduce uncertainty, raise
the level and efficiency of investrnents and lead to accelerated growth. Furthermore, the proposed
loan would provide Jordan with short-term balance of payments support in order to strengthen its
international reserves position.
59.         Loan Description. The Loan supports a series of trade, privatization, financial
sector, and regulatory reforms. It would strengthen trade facilitation, foster integration with world
markets, and reduce administrative obstacles that raise the cost of trading activity through
streamlined customs procedures for exports and the planned conversion of the entire Aqaba area
into a freeport. It would improve banking competition and supervision. It would increase the



- 15 -
efficiency of financial intermediation through modernization of the institutional and legislative
setup. It would encourage long-term savings and promote development of new financial
instruments and markets. It would encourage entry and improve incentives for domestic and
foreign investors. Through privatization, it would improve opportunities for private sector firns,
increase competition, and allow the Government to concentrate on its core fimctions and, thereby,
achieve greater efficiency.
60.         Benefits. The policy package supported by the Loan woiuld contribute to the
resumption of high GDP growth supported by robust export performance and a much greater role
for the private sector competing in an enabling legal framework. It would: (i) strengthen the
incentives for export production through reducing the import and inventory costs of capital goods
and intermediate goods; (ii) benefit domestic consumers by lowering the costs of imported
consumption goods; (iii) boost national income growth and alleviate poverty, (iv) improve resource
efficiency and raise factor productivity; (v) attract direct foreign and domestic investment; (vi)
facilitate Jordan's move toward closer trade relations with the EU, the U.S. and regional economies;
and (vii) through support to Jordan's balance of payments, strengthen macroeconomic stabilization,
increase international reserves, and reduce vulnerability to external shocks.
61.         Risks and Uncertainties. The main risk is associated with reversals in the regional
peace process. Macroeconomic stability may be adversely affected by external shocks in terms of
possible adverse capital movements or changes in the external demand for Jordanian goods and
services. There is also the risk that despite the expectation that reforns would benefit the bulk of
the population, vested interests may succeed in arguing against the reforms.
62.         The political liberalization initiated has provided a democratic process for conflict
resolution, thus contributing to social and political stability. Nevertheless, after three years of
negative growth per capita, unemployment and poverty are increasing. If another three years of
negative growth in incomes were to materialize, this may bring about strains in social cohesion.
63.         Maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework, including a realistic exchange rate
and an appropriate interest rate policy, would enable Jordan to better cope with external shocks that
could take place from changes of capital flows. The assurance of a sound macroeconomic
framework has been strengthened by the adoption of a new EFF. The proposed ERDL-1Il focuses
on private sector growth generation.
64.         Povertv Impact. Even though poverty is not directly targeted, the overall impact
on poverty of the reformn program is expected to be favorable as higher growth in the private
sector would create new jobs and expand employment. Due to the Gulf crisis the Jordanian labor
force jumped from 583,000 in 1989 to 839,000 in 1992, resulting in a peak unemployment rate of
18.8 percent. Average annual growth of 8.3 percent p.a. during 1992-95 has caused the
unemployment rate to fall to about 15 percent. Adjustments in the labor market may, however, be
accentuated in the short term as large public sector companies are privatized. The privatization
strategy addresses such issues as severance payments, early retirements, and programs for
redeploying and retraining of workers through its design, but it is important to keep in mind that
a key purpose of privatization is to expand infrastructure services. For example, the desired



- 16 -
desired expansion of telephone services from 400,000 lines currently to 1,200,000 lines is likely
to be job-creating in at least two ways: (a) construction of the lines; and (b) a growth-enhancing
business environment. Furthermore, concurrent with the reforms supported by the proposed
ERDL-Ell the Government is implementing the Social Productivity Program, which, as described
above, targets the poor directly through a four-fold strategy.
65.         Financing Plan. The United States is supporting the reformns through the Middle
East Peace and Stability Fund in the order of US$200 million. The Government of Italy has
pledged ITL 20 billion in cofinancing. The EU has decided to parallel finance ERDL-IH--the exact
amount is yet to be confirmed.
66.         Disbursement. The Borrower will open an account in CBJ. Upon effectiveness,
proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request of the Borrower. If
after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to
finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative
list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for
eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel
an equivalent undisbursed arnount of the loan. Although routine audit of the account will not be
required, the Bank reserves the right to require it.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
67.         I am  satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Jamnes D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Attachments
April 30, 1999
Washington, DC



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM                        aD  LBJI IaJTJI                                I
OF JORDAN
MINSTRY OF PLANG                                                             i3h-j
AMMAN
Ref.No .I:..|..i f4-a.
Date         .                                                      -.-- .,. .......-...... .
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn, President
The World Bank Group
Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    Allow me to express, on behalf of the Govemment of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan, our most sincere appreciation for the World Bank's strong and continued support
of Jordan's economic reform program. We have successfully implemented the 1996-98
program, supported by the Second Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-II)
from the World Bank. We are following through with implementation of reforms
achieved under ERDL-II and expanding their scope and intensity. In this regard, the
Government is seeking financial and technical assistance from the World Bank under the
proposed Third Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL-M), a one tranche
operation of US$120 million. Thisiloan will support the Government's efforts to promote
investment and equitable growth through implementation of: further trade facilitation
measures, a comprehensive privatization program, a number of significant financial
sector reforms, the recently developed regulatory framework in various sectors, and our
comprehensive social productivity program.
1. OVERVIEW
2.    We are pleased to note that since we presented you with our first letter of
Development Policy in support of ERDLA in 1995, we have broadened andL deepened our
reform program. The results in a number of areas have been positive and rewarding. We
present below a summary of Jordan's recent economic performance, our medium-term
strategy and a description of the important achievements to be supported by the proposed
ERDL-TI.
3.    Growth. The healthy growth of real GDP of about 8 percent during 1992-95
unfortunately slowed in 1996 tol.0 percent to 1.3 percent in 1997. At least three factors
contributed to the slow-down in 1996: (i) construction activity fell by 6.4 percent; (ii)
exports to regional trading partners declined by more than 2 percent of GI)P; and (iii) a
shift from JD to foreign currency deposits in the West Bank led to higher interest rates.
In 1997 and 1998, the Asia crisis hurt exports, while construction activity and agricultural
production fell further. In 1998, growth is estimated to have been 2.2 percent. Thus, due
;      AJ.L,NI  MY 000        A .-. NNC V\r.v ., NSPC1.- [UTI VV-11ELrO                    :4%_ (Aly5)  S II/VV-1 I  /Aa Uo
Tel. (9626) 4644466n04644381185 . Telefax 4649341A4642247- Cabe. ISPC Jo - Telex! 21319 NPC So. - P.OBox 555 Amman 11118 Jordan
E-Ma;I: mop@eDop.sov,O                        A/V K)o,



Annex I                                                        Page 2 of 13
to a difficult external environment we have experienced three years of negative per capita
growth.
4.    Macroeconomic Management. Important steps were taken in 1996 towards
fiscal consolidation, mainly through containment of expenditures including an important
reform of the food and animal feed subsidy system. However, due to the impact of slow
growth on tax revenues, the budget deficit (excluding grants) widened to 7.8 percent in
1996 and 7.7 percent in 1997. The budget deficit, including rescheduled interest, rose in
1998 to 10.7 percent of GDP, as government expenditure increased substantially while
revenues increased only slightly in relation to GDP. 1 Working closely together with the
Bank and the Fund, the Government is now taking strong actions to reduce the deficit.
The 1999 budget targets a reduction of the deficit to 7.9 percent of GDP (including non-
Treasury expenditures of 0.9 percent).
5.    The external current account deficit (including official grants) narrowed to 3.3
percent of GDP in 1996 and a small surplus was achieved in 1997. Despite signs of
ongoing redemption of JD in the West Bank and Gaza reserves were increased to US$700
million in 1996 (2.1 months of imports), and to US$1.7 billion (5.5 months of imports) in
1997. Regional and domestic uncertainties led to a fall in net international reserves to
about US$1.2 billion (4.0 months of imports) at end-1998. Events since then have put
further pressure on reserves, which currently stand at US$1.1 billion.
6.    Substantial progress has been made in our management of external debt. As a
result of prudent new borrowing, debt buy-backs and debt reduction, the debt/GDP ratio
has been brought down from 175 percent in 1991 to 103 percent in 1998. This has
contributed significantly to the Government's efforts to restore private sector confidence.
HI. MEDIUM-TERM STRATEGY
7.    The Government's medium-term program continues to rest on five fundamental
objectives:
* Maintaining macro-economic stability
*  Improving living standards
* Encouraging private sector growth
* Creating and sustaining a business friendly environment
* Strengthening human resources
Some of the increase in the budget deficit recorded in 1998 is due to a consolidation and
improvement in the budget recording system, which now incorporates many expenses previously considered-
off budget, and the clearance of domestic payment arrears.



Annex I                                                        Page 3 of 13
8.    We believe that macroeconomic stability is an essential pre-requisite to
sustained GDP growth and to boosting exports and foreign investment, The Government
has recently agreed with the IMF on a new three-year EFF program. The overall
macroeconomic objectives of the program are to raise economic growth, maintain low
inflation, and strengthen the international reserves position. However, in 1999 we project
that real output growth will be limited to 2 percent, held back by the continued depressed
level of economic activity in the region, and impediments to Jordan's exports to
neighboring countries. Economic growth is expected to pick up beyond 1999 due to a
resumption of export growth, supported by several large investments in the mining sector.
Implementation of the structural reform program will also contribute to export and GDP
growth. We expect growth to rise to at least 3-4 percent by 2001, with inflation of
2-3 percent. The fiscal program is targeting a reduction in the budget deficit from
7.9 percent of GDP in 1999 to 4 percent in 2001 (1.4 percent of GDP including grants).
The external current account deficit (excluding grants) is projected to rise somewhat in
1999, in part because of continued weakness of remittances, but should then narrow to
about 5 percent of GDP (2 percent after grants). At the same time we are planning to
achieve a steady increase in the stock of official reserves.
9.    Improving the living standards of the poorest segments of Jordanian society is a
critical objective of our overall program, and we are addressing ilt through specific
employment generation and poverty alleviation programs, with full participation of all
relevant public and private sector organizations, including several non-governmental
organizations. The Social Productivity Program (SPP) launched in 1997, with the help of
the World Bank, takes a two-pronged approach. A first set of measures directly targets the
unemployed and the poor through programs to improve and extend income transfer
mechanisms to all poor households, and through provision of credit and technical
assistance to micro-enterprises. A second, longer-term, set of measures aims to enhance
social productivity through investments in health, education, technology and
infrastructure in disadvantaged areas.
10.   . Our economic strategy encourages private sector expansion in the economy.
A number of sectors such as telecommunications, power generation and transport have
now been opened to private sector participation. Over the last two years, the Government
has undertaken many initiatives to encourage private sector participation in economic
policy fonnulation, drafting legislative reforms and designing specific programs that
concern the business sector. We are witnessing the emergence of a genuine public-
private sector partnership and a revitalization of mutual trust and cooperation in several
areas. Furthermore, we are pursuing a comprehensive privatization program across many
sectors of the economy, as will be described in Part III of this letter.
11.   Creating an investment friendly climate to attract and retain foreign and
domestic investors is a high priority of the Government. In addition to a massive revamp
of the investment and business related legislation accomplished over the last two years,
we have implemented a number of specially targeted actions to simplify and streamline
the business environment, and to open up investment opportunities, as described in Parf



Annex I                                                       Page 4 of 13
Em. In November 1997, we signed an Association Agreement with the European Union
and we are negotiating accession to the WTO. In July 1997 the Central Bank of Jordan
(CBJ) eliminated all controls on foreign exchange and instituted full convertibility of the
JD. We believe these actions, coupled with a stable macro-economy, have created an
attractive investment climate. During 1997, net private sector capital inflows grew more
than sixfold to US$361 million. In 1998, net FDI and portfolio flows are estimated at
US$310 million.
12.  Investing in our human resources is foremost arnong the Government's
priorities. The recently initiated Social Productivity Program (SPP) is one of the prime
mechanisms through which the Governnent intends to launch a frontal attack on poverty,
unemployment and inadequate living standards. Despite a tight fiscal stance, the
Government has also increased budgetary allocations for health and education from
JD325 million in 1996 to JD378 million in 1998 to ensure that appropriate programs are
fully funded.
III. ACHIEVEMENTS AND REFORMS
13.  In order to implement our medium-term strategy, we have taken a number of
important steps as described below.
TRADE LIBERALIZATION AND CUSTOMS REFORM
14.  Import Tariffs. The Government is continuing with its efforts to liberalize the
external sector. Since March 1997, the import tariff regime has undergone substantial
reform. All import duties and fees have been consolidated, the maximum tariff rate has
been lowered from 50 percent to 40 percent (except on alcohol and tobacco), and the
number of tariff bands has been reduced from 10 to 6. The reforns included a lowering
of the maximum tariff on cars to 40 percent, while compensating the difference by the
imposition of an additional GST on cars. Tariffs on 492 capital goods were eliminated
and those on an additional 216 were lowered to 10 percent. As a result, the weighted
average tariff rate is estimated to have declined steadily from 17.5 percent in 1994 to
15.1 percent in 1996 and 14.5 percent in 1997. In November 1997 the Government
further reduced import tariffs on 46 raw materials and intermediate products from 20-35
percent to 5-10 percent. At the same time processed food and several other consumer
products were made duty exempt.
15.   Further reductions in tariff rates will be implemented by end-June 1999, when the
maximum import tariff will be reduced to 35 percent (except on alcohol and tobacco) and
custom duties on industrial inputs will be reduced to 10 percent. These measures are
pending the Parliament's approval of a compensatory increase in the GST, and, as
publicly announced, will be implemented immediately thereafter.
16.   Customs Administration. The Government has taken measures to facilitate
customs clearance by implementing the new Customs Law in January 1999,



Annex I                                                        Page 5 of 13
computerization and adoption of the ASYCUDA system. We have recently extended the
"Green Channel" facilities to cover all ISO 9000 companies and other companies that
export more than 50 percent of their production as long as these companies maintain a
clean record with Customs.
17.   Export Development. Several other initiatives are also underway to facilitate
trade: an Export Credit Guarantee mechanism is being considered to insure exporters
against commercial and political risks. The Jordanian Institute for Standards and
Metrology (JISM) is being strengthened to maintain high quality standards for goods
produced in Jordan and to assist exporters in receiving ISO 9000 certification. Finally, a
WTO consistent Safeguard Law has recently been enacted.
18.   The Government plans to turn the whole Aqaba area into a special economic zone.
The proposal calls for creating a globally competitive legal framework, regulatory and
administrative procedures, infrastructure, production facilities, and access through a
world class port and airport. Given Jordan's strategic position within the region, a
successful zone will offer excellent prospects for generating foreign exchange earnings
from export of goods and services, attracting direct foreign investment and generating
new employment opportunities. A detailed feasibility and implementation study by an
independent consultant was completed in March 1999, and is now being discussed.
19.   Price Liberalization. Although price controls in Jordan have never been widely
used, in order to further efficient market allocation and increase private sector
participation, the Government has relinquished price controls over most food supplies.
However, to protect the poorest segments of the population, prices for a few basic food
items are still regulated. The price of wheat is controlled as is the price of flour for
common bread and a price ceiling is imposed on the common bread itself. The price of
bread was lowered by 25 percent in December 1998 reflecting declines in world prices.
The price of barley is in principle liberalized. However, due to the current drought, the
price has been temporarily fixed for 1999. Domestic fresh milk as well as other local
dairy product have price ceilings. Imported fresh meat has a price ceiling imposed.
Finally, in certain popular restaurants prices for a few of the most common food items
have price ceilings. With the exception of controls on wheat and bread, these ceilings do
not imply subsidization of consumer prices.
20.   Government import monopolies previously held for certain food products have
been abolished and the private sector has been encouraged to provide these services. As a
consequence, the Ministry of Supply has been merged into the Ministry of Industry and
Trade, as many of the former's activities have been assumed by the private sector. Food
subsidies to the poor are being re-targeted and a bread subsidy and food coupon system
were substituted with cash transfers in 1996. This untargeted cash subsidy was abolished
in January 1999.



Annex I                                                        Page 6 of 13
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND LEGAL REFORMS
21.   Background. We have undertaken a bold and comprehensive reform program in
the financial sector consisting of legal and regulatory reforms reflecting best international
practice to allow the Jordanian financial market to integrate with the global market. The
program will promote liberalization of financial markets and increased competition
supported by strengthened legal and regulatory capacity of supervisory agencies for the
capital markets, insurance, pension funds and banking.
Securities Market
22.   Until recently the capital market in Jordan consisted of the Government owned
and run Amman Financial Market (AFM). Because the AFM acted as both the stock
exchange and the market regulatory body, a high potential existed for conflicts of interest.
A modern Securities Law was enacted in May 1997, which separated the regulatory
functions from the operational side of the market. An independent Jordan Securities
Commission (JSC) has been established under the new law with well-defined powers.
The objectives of the new organization and legal framework are to: (i) adhere to
internationally accepted and proven standards and practices to increase investor
confidence, standardize market practices and protect investor rights; (ii) establish a
complete, transparent and effectively functioning and regulated capital market; and (iii)
achieve the effective and efficient institutional operations and transparent flow of
information between market institutions, participants and investors. The new Securities
Law will be fully implemented by May 15, 1999. Rules and regulations have been
issued, including: Regulations for Registration and Issuance, Financial Disclosure,
Licensing of Financial Companies, and Standards for Accounting and Auditing.
23.  In addition to the JSC, the Government has established two private sector entities:
(i) the Amman Stock Exchange (ASE); and (ii) the Securities Deposit Center (SDC) for
the registration, safe keeping and settlement of securities. A Charter is currently being
drafted for the association to represent the private sector participants in the securities
industry in its interaction with the JSC. We have made considerable progress on
improving the technical capacity of the stock exchange. In accordance with the
Government's plan to computerize the activities of ASE and SDC, we have contracted to
purchase appropriate software and hardware systems. We expect the electronic trading
system to be activated in August 1999.
Accounting and Financial Disclosure
24.   Transparent accounting and reporting constitute the vital underpinning for a
robust capital market. In order to strengthen the confidence of local and foreign investors
in Jordanian companies, the Government has decided to reinforce appropriately the legal
and ethics framework to support adherence to international standards for accounting,
auditing and financial disclosure for companies. Under the auspices of the JSC, a study
was completed which focused on: (i) a review of applicable laws, administrative decrees



Annex I                                                        Page 7 of 13
and accounting conventions; (ii) a review of published financial infoimation by listed
companies with primary reference to their annual reports; (iii) an assessment of issues
concerning the setting and application of accounting and auditing requirements from the
perspective of regulators and those in the market place, i.e., preparers, auditors and users;
and (iv) recommendations on changes necessary to require and enforce international
standards and detailed scope of work on how to achieve these objectives.
25.   The JSC has issued regulations that are consistent with international standards for
accounting and auditing. The action plan to implement these regulations centers activity
around three distinct areas: (i) a capacity building program at the JSC; f(ii) a training and
development program for the accounting and auditing profession; and (iii) the preparation
of the process for annual peer reviews according to international standards.
Bond Market
26.   The Government has established the Jordan Mortgage Refinance Company
(JMRC), which functions as a secondary mortgage facility under the new Companies
Law. The objectives of JMRC are to: (i) create a sustainable, market-based source of
liquidity for mortgage lending to help banks improve the matching of maturities between
their sources and uses of funds;'and (ii) support mortgage refinancing. In this respect the
Governnent has waived the assignm9nt tax of 1.1 percent on mortgages that was charged
by the Land Registry so as to ensure proper and efficient functioning of the JMRC and
development of the bond market.
Insurance Sector
27.   The insurance sector reform will strengthen the insurance market and coverage,
and protection of consumers by: (i) implementing laws and regulations compatible with
international standards, focused on ensuring solvency of companies; (ii) strengthening the
insurance supervisory body through an intensive training program; and (iii) conducting
audits of all insurance companies consistent with international standards.
28.   The Government has recognized that the current law and regulations for the sector
need strengthening in order to ensure solvency and sound financial sitatus of Jordanian
insurance companies. An appropriately drafted EU compatible new Insurance Law has
been submitted to the Parliament for consideration. The Law stipulates establishing a
new and independent Insurance Supervision Agency (ISA) with clearly specified
inspection and intervention powers and funded by the industry. To this end, the
Government has recently signed a 2Y2 year twinning arrangement involving the Irish sister
organization for insurance supervision.



Annex I                                                          Page 8 of 13
Social Security and Pension System
29.   An actuarial review was completed for the Social Security Corporation (SSC) in
January 1999. It has analyzed the revenues and expenditures of the SSC with a view to
determining the actuarial balance of the social security scheme. Amendments to the
Social Security Law have been submitted to Cabinet to enhance the capacity to
accumulate funds and channel investment.
Mutual Funds and Trust Law
30.   An appropriate legal environment for the emergence and development of private
sector mutual funds is at the center of the Government's financial sector reform strategy.
Professional fund managers would strengthen competition in the market and provide new
savings instruments and better protection of investors' savings through more
sophisticated diversification strategies. This will benefit small investors and help them
diversify risk. Institutional investors could also benefit from outsourcing portfolio
management to mutual fund managers. Proper fiduciary requirements and standards need
to be established for mutual funds with clear rules embedded in laws which establish the
rights and obligations of the parties to each other and third parties. The legal framework
is currently being established in conjunction with the new Securities Law.
31.   In addition, a draft Trust Law will soon be submitted to the Government which
would create the necessary environment for:  (i) standards of fiduciary duties of
administrators to beneficiaries and to third parties; (ii) requirements for security and
insurance; (iii) delegation of authority; (iv) presumptions of sound investment;
(v) apportionment of profit and expenditures; (vi) accounts, reporting, and disclosure;
(vii) termination; and (viii) liabilities, warranties, status in insolvency.
Secured Financing and Leasing
32.   In order to accelerate private sector development and provide varied financing
options for small and large enterprises, the Government is encouraging the development
of leasing, factoring, and venture capital companies. The current legal and regulatory
environment lacks the enabling legislation to support the development of these
institutions. In this regard, an appropriate Secured Financing and Leasing Law has been
submitted to the Cabinet for consideration. The Law would provide a clear and certain
legal basis to use as collateral, movable property, including equipment, inventory,
contracts and accounts receivable; and provide a clear and certain legal basis for lease
finance. This would enable segments of the population that are not owners of real estate
to gain better access to finance.
33.   To facilitate the proper functioning of this new legislation for security interests in
movable property and leasing, a Registry for Movable Property Interest (RMPI) will be
established to record security interests in movable property. RMPI is a computer-based
system with both registration and inquiry functions. Consultants will be engaged to



Annex I                                                        Page 9 of 13
implement the computerized RMPI system as soon as the Secured Financing and Leasing
Law is approved by Cabinet.
Banking Sector
34.   An important element of the refonn strategy in the banking sector is to increase
competition for the banking system through capital market development. The CBJ is
taking the lead in strengthening banking supervision and alleviating potential moral
hazard problems.
35.   Banking Legislation. The CBJ has prepared and the Cabinet has approved a new
Law consistent with best international practices and compatible with the Basle
Agreements. The Law clearly defines the scope of the banking business; spells out bank
licensing procedures; establishes CBJ's authority to set core prudential requirements
(including loan classification, and provisioning requirements and single and group
borrower credit limits and limits on loans to insiders); and enables the CBJ to intervene in
problem banks. This draft law was submitted to the Parliament in April 1999.
36.   Supervision.  Progress has also been achieved in strengthening banking
supervision and prudential regulations. Banks have been required to meet the new
12 percent capital adequacy ratio since end-June 1997, and were requaired to meet the
minimum capital of JD20 million by end-December 1997. Furthermore, reserve
requirements have been unified at 14 percent for domestic and foreign currency deposits
for all banks, commercial as well as investment banks. In addition, the CBJ has
integrated off- and on-site banking supervision and rated all banks according to the
CAMEL framework.
37.   Deposit Insurance Legislation. The Government intends to establish a bank
Deposit Insurance Corporation (DIC) through appropriate legislation'. The necessary
legislation has been submitted to Cabinet. It clearly states the objectives, the coverage
limits for deposits and clients with multiple accounts. Funding will be provided largely
by the covered banks.
38.   Payment System. Despite recent steps taken towards automation of the clearing
system, the rapid growth of Jordan's financial system and the development of new
products and new technologies have left the payment systems in need of modernization.
Many modern payment instruments are not available and the clearing and settlement
systems are not fully automated. Interbank transfers and the accounting and settlement of
transactions involving certificates of deposits issued by the CBJ are highly labor
intensive. The CBJ is now establishing a safe and efficient payment system. The check
clearing system is now computerized. A National Payment Council and four working
groups (legal, operations, risk and security, and automation) is currently overseeing and
coordinating implementation.



Annex I                                                        Page 10 of 13
Other Legislative Reforms
39.   Foreign Investment. A new Investment Law was enacted in 1995, which
eliminated the distinction between Arab and non-Arab foreign investors, accorded equal
treatment with Jordanians regarding incentives and tax reduction, eliminated Cabinet
approval, and allowed foreign investment in shares listed at the ASE. However,
50 percent ownership restrictions were still maintained in several key sectors, and Jordan
did not attract its fair share of the growing pool of global investment funds. As of
September 1997, the Government has abolished ceilings on foreign equity ownership in
the Securities Market. Together with the CBJ decision to institute full capital mobility,
this significant step, as expected, is already enhancing foreign investors' interest in
Jordan and increasing investment flows.
40.   Foreign investment in Jordanian securities increased by 118.8 percent in 1998, but
that includes the privatization of Government's shares in the Jordan Cement Company.
By the end of 1998, foreign investment in shares of listed companies in the stock
exchange accounted for 43.9 percent of the total.
41.   Competition Law. The Government recognizes the importance of enacting an
up-to-date Competition Law in order to maintain and encourage competition in domestic
markets. Furthermore, the Law needs to address issues related to entry barriers to
business, and advocate sound business practices and ethics. A new EU compatible
Competition Law has been approved by the Cabinet and is currently being debated in
Parliament. The associated regulatory unit will be established within the Ministry of
Industry and Trade.
PRIVATIZATION
42.   The Government's privatization program aims not only to increase the efficiency
of enterprises, but to improve access and quality in the provision of critical services and
goods. It will also create a better environment for growth in domestic and foreign
investment, and the creation of increased employment opportunities in sectors opened to
competition (as, for example, has already occurred in the telecommunications sector).
The privatization program aims to develop the Securities Market through public share
offerings and by increasing investment and diversification opportunities to both
institutional and retail investors. It will also help to consolidate public finances by
reducing subsidies and fiscal drain, and by increasing the tax base.
43.   Institutional   Framework   for   Privatization.   Appropriately  timed
implementation of the privatization program in a transparent manner remains a key
objective of the Government. To this end, the Cabinet appointed an inter-ministerial
Higher Privatization Committee for overseeing the overall privatization program. The
privatization implementation unit called the Executive Privatization Unit (EPU) set up in
the Prime Ministry has been functioning since end of 1996, and now has a full-time staff
of ten, including economists and financial analysts. The EPU is working closely with the
involved sector ministries and is providing the technical support to carry out specific



Annex I                                                        Page 11 of 13
privatization activities.   Because privatization is frequently misunderstood and
misinterpreted in the Jordanian media and in public discourse, we will enhance the EPU's
capacity to undertake a campaign of public information and education.
44.   Labor Redundancies. To deal with redundancy issues in a transparent and
uniform manner, the Cabinet has approved a Government employees' benefit package on
November 8, 1997. For those workers in the privatized enterprises who are not civil
servants, Government is considering all possible initiatives to provide redundant workers
not only with a severance package, but also with assistance in re-training and in finding
alternative employment. The Government also intends to undertake initiatives to generate
employment in distressed areas
Transactions
45.   Several entities within the telecommunications, tourism,energy, industrial,
transportation, mining and water sectors currently have been or are being privatized. The
status of these transactions is as follows:
46.   Jordan Telecommunications Company (JTC). The Government wishes to
confirm its commitment to privatize JTC, despite recent setbacks in its efforts towards
this objective. Last October, one of the two pre-qualified bidders in the tender to sell a 40
percent shareholding in JTC with management control, officially announced its
withdrawal from the process. In the absence of competition to ensure the best results for
the country, the tender process was cancelled.
47.   The Government is exploring other options for  the privatization of JTC.
However, the Government is aware that it cannot afford additional setbacks in the
privatization of JTC. To this end all options for the privatization of JTC will be explored
in detail with the assistance of world class advisors if needed, before a final decision to
proceed is made. This decision on which option to pursue will be made in the next four
months.
48.   To facilitate the decision making process and to reaffirm our commitment to
privatize JTC, implementation arrangements will be made to conclude with the successful
privatization of JTC in the next 18-24 months.
49.   Ma'in Spa. Bids were received and evaluated for a 30-year concession for the
Spa during 1998. After negotiation with the selected bidder, a management contract was
signed with an international hotel chain in February 1999.
50.   Jordan Cement Factories (JCF').  The Board of the Jordan Investment
Corporation (JIC) authorized the divestiture of 33 percent of the shares of JCF to a
private investor. In addition, the Government decided to float some of its shares on the
Securities Market and to sell a small percentage of shares to the emnployees and the
Jordanian public. A new pricing formula for cement was implemented at the same time.



Annex I                                                        Page 12 of 13
51.   The Government owned 49 percent of the shares of the company. A divestiture
transaction involving the 33 percent of the shares was completed by end-1998. Proceeds
of $102 million were deposited in the Central Bank of Jordan. A small percentage of the
shares is being sold to employees at a discount.
52.   Public Transportation Corporation (PTC). The privatization of PTC is being
implemented by a team which includes the EPU, the Ministry of Transport and other
agencies. A manager was also appointed to facilitate the process and report to the steering
committee on a regular basis. After the financial restructuring plan for PTC was approved
by the Cabinet, route franchises of 5-7 years was awarded to three private sector operators
to run specific routes in Greater Amman. The new operators started service in March
1999, with two of them starting service in August. The Public Transport Authority Law
was submitted to the Government in September 1998. PTC is in the process of
liquidation, which is to be completed by August 1999.
53.   Aqaba Railway Corporation (ARC). A tender process for the concession of
existing operations and the BTO of the Eshidiya and Wadi II extensions was concluded in
November 1998. Negotiations with the selected consortium are expected to be completed
in July 1999 and operations by the private sector partner to start in September 1999.
54.   Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA).  JEA was transformed into a public
shareholding company under the name of the National Electric Power Company
(NEPCO). Subsequently, the Government has split NEPCO into three separate corporate
entities which will carry out the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity.
According to the privatization strategy approved by the Cabinet, the generation and
distribution companies are to be privatized, while the transmnission company will remain
in Government hands. Privatization of NEPCO is targeted to be completed by end-2000.
In addition, the Government owns shares in two regional electricity distribution
companies, Irbid District Electricity Company (IDECO) -55.45 percent and Jordan
Electric Power Company (JEPCO) - 7.9 percent. Theses shares had been previously
held by NEPCO but have now been transferred to JIC as a part of the corporatization
process in preparation for full divestiture.
55.   The Government is conducting bids for generation of power by independent
power producers (IPP). At the same time the sector issues of tariff, distribution service
areas, subsidies, concessions and the legal and regulatory framework will be resolved.
This work will proceed simultaneously with the sector restructuring and privatization.
56.   Water Authority (WAJ). A 4-year performance based management contract was
awarded to a private sector operator by WAJ in 1998, and a final contract was signed in
April 1999. The management contract includes water metering and tariff collection in the
Greater Amman area. This project is supported by a separate World Bank loan.



Annex I                                                        Page 13 of 13
57.   Royal Jordanian Airlines (RJ) is being privatized via an increase in capital
through the subscription of new shares by a strategic partner. The responsibility for the
implementation of this strategy is with the Executive Committee for the Privatization of
RJ, chaired by the Chairman of the airline. Financial and Legal advisors have been
recruited and are conducting their due diligence. A transaction should be put on the
market for the selection of the strategic partner through competitive tender in August.
The selection of the strategic partner and financial closing of the transaction is expected
to take place by the end of the first quarter of 2000.
58.   Other Enterprises Some shares in other enterprises, held by the Government
through its holding company JIC, have also been divested. These include shares in Jordan
Himeh Mineral (34.6 percent sold to a local investor), Jordan Vegetable Oil Company
(40 percent sold to a local investor). A management contract has also been concluded for
the Jordan Poultry Processing and Marketing Company. Government shares in 15 other
companies in which the Government owns less than 5 percent of the shares, have been
sold through the Securities Market. Shares in 13 other companies in which the
Government owns more than 5 percent will be sold as and when f`avorable market
conditions permit.
Conclusion
59.   In concluding this communication, I again wish to express our appreciation for the
excellent working relationship we have with your staff. We are also grateful for the
World Bank's recognition of the Government's success in implementing the reform
program. I would particularly like to note the appropriateness of this series of single-
tranche operations. The Government of Jordan remains firmly committed to march ahead
to reach its goal of sustained and equitable growth. We welcome your continued support.
Regards.
Dr. Rima Khalaf Ilunaidi
Deputy Prime Ministcr and Msfinister of Planni1g



Attachment to Annex I
Page 1 of 9
Third Economic Reform and Development Loan
(ERDL-III)
Jordan: Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Trade Policy
Policy Area              Status                  Policy Actions taken             Policy Actions
January 1997                 prior to Board                   1999-2000
(ERDL-II)                     ERDL-III                      (indicative)
1. Import Tariffs (Objective: Reduce anti-export bi as, stimulate efficiency and competi tion)
1.1 Maximum  Maximum tariff reduced to                                     According to agreement with
Tariff         40 percent on March 2, 1997                                 IMF:
(except alcohol and tobacco).                               (i) Reduce maximum tariff to
Number of tariff bands reduced                               35 percent by end-June 1999
from 10 to 6.                                               except for alcohol and tobacco;
(ii) Reduce maximum tariff to 30
percent by end-March 2000
except for alcohol and tobacco.
1.2 Food                                     Exemption of several food items
from import duties.
1.3 Capital   Eliminated tariffs on 492 capital                            Reduce tariffs on industrial
goods, raw     goods.                                                      inputs to 10 percent by end-June
materials and                                                               1999.
intermediate    Reduced tariffs to 10 percent on
goods         an additional 218 capital goods,
including computer and telecom-
munication equipment. For such
capital goods, tariffs on parts
would not exceed
1 30 percent.
2. Customs Adnministration (Objective: Reduce transaction costs of imports to expand exports and modernize industry)
2.1 Valuation   Began to apply a reference price   Started to install ASYCUDA  Complete implementation of
database for valuation of goods    system.                  procedures for valuation of
by Customs.                   Is implementing procedures for   goods based on the self-
valuation of goods based on the   declaration principle, in
self-declaration principle, in  accordance with WTO Customs
accordance with WTO Customs   Valuation Agreement.
Valuation Agreement.
2.2 Duty       Computerized duty drawback and                              Extend the duty drawback and
drawback and   temporary admission systems.                                temnporary admission regimes to
temporary                                                                  indirect exporters.
admission
2.3 "Green     Provided a "Green Channel" for a  Extended "Green Channel"  Extend list of companies eligible
Channel"      set of established exporters for    facilities to more exporters  for the "Green Channel".
imports of materials, equipment,  including all ISO 9000 certified
and components used in the    companies, those exporting more
production of exports. This  than 50 percent of production and
implies acceptance of invoices  exporters penetrating difficult
presented by exporters on the  markets (OECD countries),
basis of trust, with reliance on  provided that these companies
limited ex-post random auditing    have clean record with Customs.
of factory premises.         II__  __



Attachment to Annex I
Page 2 of 9
Policy Area               Status                   Policy Actions taken              Policy Actions
January 1997                   prior to Board                   1999-2000
l.         (ERDL-II)                      ERDL-UI                        (indicative)
2. Customs Administration (cont.)                                                 _      _      _l
2.4    Aqaba                                   Detailed feasibility study and  Proceed with implementation.
Freeport                                      implementation plan is underway
for turning the whole of the
Aqaba area into a freeport with
focus on fiscal imnpact on the
budget and identify niches for
Aqaba in terms of exports and
attracting foreign direct
investment.                        _       _     _l
2.5   Customs  Submitted to Parliament a new   Enacted modem Customs Law      Implement Law.
Law            WTO consistent Customs Law      with WTO-consistent principles
establishing the principle of  of valuation and self-declaration.
invoice-based valuation of goods
combined with post-audit system.
The principle of self-declaration
will be implemnented upon
completion of computerization of
Customs.
2.6  Safeguard  Submitted to Parliament        Enacted WTO-consistent         Implement Law.
Law            appropriate Safeguard Law.      Safeguard Law.
3. Price Liberal ization (Objective: Efficient market allocation and private sector develo mert)
3.1 Imnport                                    Removal of remaining State
monopoeses for food
products.
3.2 Food                                       Removal of price controls for all
prices                                         food products except short
negative list.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 3 of 9
Jordan: Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Financial Sector Policy
Policy Area             Status                 Policy Actions taken             Policy Actions
January 1997                 prior to Board                 1999-2000
(ERDL-II)                    ERDL-M                       (indicative)
4. Banking Sec tor (Objective: to strengthen supervision)
4.1 Banking                                 Submission to Parliament of new  Implement new Banking Law.
Legislation                                 Banking Law consistent with
best international practice
including Basle Agreements on
banking supervision.
4.2 Bank      Formulated and adopted        Increase in the capital adequacy   Continue to strengthen banking
Supervision   measures to strengthen banking   ratio from 10 to 12 percent.  supervision and prudential
and Prudential  supervision and regulation.                              regulations.
Regulation                                  Integrated off- and on-site
banking supervision and rated all  Increase frequency in reporting.
banks according to the CAMEL
framework.
4.3 Deposit                                 Submission to Government of    Establish DIC.
Insurance                                   new legislation for the bank
Deposit Insurance Corporation
(DIC).
4.4 Payment                                 Computerization of check      Continue  implementation  of
Systems                                     clearing procedures.         action plans.
Short- and long-term action
plans for efficient system with
comprehensive legal foundation
for entire payment system.
Established National Payment
Council, and 4 working groups
to oversee and coordinate
implementation.
4.5 Reserve                                 Unified reserve requirements for
Requirements                                JD and foreign currency deposits
and for commercial banks and
investment banks at 14 percent.
4.6                                         Adopted full convertibility of the
Restrictions on                             JD for all current and capital
Capital                                     account transactions.
Mobilit_



Attachment to Annex I
Page 4 of 9
Policy Area                Status                    Policy Actions taken               Policy Actions
January 1997                    prior to Board                     1999-2000
I________                  (ERDL-II)                       ERDL-III                         (indicative)
5. Non-Bank Financial Institutions (Objective: to develop non-bank financial institutions and alternative mechanisms for
Ifinancing)
5.1 Mutual      Satisfactory progress in achieving   Satisfactory progress in    Implement Trust Law.
Funds and       appropriate legal framework for    establishing appropriate Trust
Trust Law       mutual funds.                    Law.
Satisfactory progress in drafting    Review and propose appropriate
of Mutual Funds Regulations.    regulatory framework for mutual
funds consistent with international
standard, including suggested
amendments to the Companies,
l_______________________         and  Tax Laws.
5.2 Secured     Satisfactory progress in preparing   Submission to Government of  Create a legal enabling
Financing and   appropriate legislation enabling  appropriate legislation enabling    environment to promote the
Leasing         the creation, registration, and  the creation, registration, and  development of leasing,
liquidation of collateral security    liquidation of collateral security   factoring, and venture capital
on movable property such as     on movable property such as      cornpanies.
machinery, inventory and        machinery, inventory and
receivables.                    receivables. The Law will        Implement new Secured
include appropriate regulatory  Financing and Leasing Law.
framework for leasing, factoring,
and venture capital companies.
5.3 Registry                                     Issuance of RFP for consultant    Cornplete implementation of
for movable                                      contract in order to implement    registry for movable property.
property                                         computerized and dependable
l____________ __________________________ registry for movable property.            _-



Attachment to Annex I
Page 5 of 9
Policy Area             Status                  Policy Actions taken             Policy Actions
January 1997                 prior to Board                  1999-2000
____________  (ERDL-II)                 ERDL-m                        (indicative)
6. Contractual aving Institutions (Objective: to promote sources of long-term funds)
6.1 Insurance   Conducted a study for       Subrnission to Parliament of new  Implement EU compatible law
Companies      strengthening the supervisory  appropriate and EU-compatible   and regulations.
body.                        Insurance Law mandating the
establishment of an independent
Insurance Commission.
Signed twinning contract     Jointly with twinning partner,
involving well-established and  conduct audit according to
modem insurance supervision   international standards of all
agency practicing within EU-  insurance cornpanies.
compatible legal framework.
6.2 Pension    Conducted a study to:        Submission to Government of    Implement amended Law.
Funds and      (a) review the social security  amendments to SSC law and
Social Security  with a view to introducing  regulations to enhance the
defined contribution plans;  capacity to accumulate funds and
and                          channel investrnent.
(b) examine the investment
regulations on the SSC that   Conduct actuarial review.
would be required to ensure the
orderly functioning of banking
and securities markets                                                                  l
6.3 Mortgage                                Waived re-assignment fee for  Grant equal waiver for any
Refinancing                                 Jordan Mortgage Refinance     qualified new entrant.
Comnpany, thereby removing an
obstacle for issuance and
collateralization of bonds as a
vehicle for mortgage refinancing.                          l



Attachment to Annex I
Page 6 of 9
Policy Area               Status                   Policy Actions taken              Policy Actions
January 1997                  prior to Board                    1999-2000
(ERDL-II)                      ERDL-M                         (indicative)
7. Securities Markets (Objective: to strengthen the regulations of securities markets)
7.1  Securities  Cabinet approval of a modem and  Enactment of new Securities  Complete implementation of
Market: Legal  comprehensive Securities Law.    Law.                          Law, by-laws and regulations
Framework                                                                     and proper supervision of the
and                                           Issued rules and regulations for:  securities market.
Organizational                                 a) Registration and Issuance;
Structure.                                     b) Financial Disclosure;       Complete organizational
c) Licensing of Financial      restructuring.
Companies;
d) Standards for Accounting and
Auditing;
e) Anmman Stock Exchange;
f) Securities Deposit Center.
Drafting of rules and regulations
for:
g) Investment Companies and
Mutual Funds; and
h) Take-over Bids.
Created the Jordan Securities
Commission, a private sector
stock exchange, and a private
sector central depository. Is
supporting the establishment of
charter for financial services
professional association.
7.2 Trading,    Selected system and secured    Is installing electronic trading  Complete installation of
Clearing  and  financing for trading, clearing and  system scheduled to start  computerized trading and
Settlement  &   settlement, and depository     officially in August 1999. Is  clearing, settlement, and
Depository     systems.                       installing clearing, settlement,    depository systems.
Systems                                        and depository systems.
_Aoly electronic trading.
7.3 Financial                                  Issued regulations for         Enforce compliance with issued
Disclosure and                                 accounting, auditing and       regilations.
Accounting                                     financial disclosure requirements
Standards                                      and their application by listed
companies on the Securities
Market consistent with
international standard. Hired
consultants to: (i) train
accounting and auditing
professionals; and (ii) prepare
peer review process according to
international standard.



Attachment to Annex I
Page 7 of 9
Policy Area              Status                  Policy Actions taken             Policy Actions
January 1997                 prior to Board                   1999-2000
(ERDL-II)                     ERDL-m                        (indicative)
8. Other Regulatory Reforms (Objective: Improve efficiency and global integration, deepen and broaden financial
intermediation)                                                                                         l
8.1            Completed procedural guidelines  Removed the non-Jordanian  Review Companies Law and
Investment     and implement law.            equity ownership ceiling for  remove potential inconsistencies
Law                                          listed companies, except in   with the Investment Law
retail, mining and construction    regarding foreign ownership.
sectors.
8.2            Satisfactory progress in drafting   Submission to Parliament of EU-  Develop institutional capacity and
Competition    appropriate Competition Law.    compatible Competition Law.  implement Law.
Law



Atitachment to Annex I
Page 8 of 9
Jordan: Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Privatization
Policy Area               Status                 Policy Actions taken             Policy Actions
January 1997                 prior to Board                  1999-2000
l rivatization         (ERDL-II)                      ERDL-III                     (indicative)
9. Privatization (Objective: enable private-sector-led growth, increase competition, allow Government to focus of its core
function, remove monetary vulnerability).                                                                 I
9.1 Privatization  Formulated detailed action plan.  Approval of comprehensive  Continue privatization program.
strategy                                       privatization strategy.
Evaluate strategies for other
Government entities which may
be considered as potential
candidates for privatization.
9.2 Cement       JIC Board decision to sell a  Implemented pricing formula.    Treat remaining shares within
Factories (JCF)    minimum of 20 percent of                                  the JIC divestiture strategy, see
shares to a strategic investor.                             9.9.
Sold 33 percent share of JCF to
Sent out requests for proposal to  private sector partner.
short-listed companies.
Organized pre-bidding
conference.
9.3 Main         Invited expressions of interest    Signed agreement for lease or
Tourism and Spa  from pnvate sector for        management contract with
Complex          investmnent and long-ter      private operator.
concession.__ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                      _ _ _ _ _
9.4 Royal                                      Cabinet approval of detailed  Continue privatization of RJ.
Jordanian                                      privatization strategy.
Airlines (RJ)
Hired financial advisor and
legal advisor for restructuring
and privatization of RJ.
9.5 Aqaba        Privatization Ministerial     Negotiating with preferred    Continue privatization of ARC.
Railway Corp.    Committee decision to privatize  bidder on contract for operation
(ARC)            ARC. Initiated consultant     and expansion of infrastructure.
recruitment to draft the tender
documents for a concession for
the operations of the company.
9.6 Public       Cabinet Development Council   Franchised bus route network to  Implement new Law for the
Transport        decision to privatize PTC.    private sector operators.     Public Transport Authority
Company (PTC)                                                                (PTA).
Hired liquidation manager.
Liquidate PTC.



Attachment to Amnex I
Page 9 of 9
Policy Area                Status                   Policy Actions taken              Policy Actions
January 1997                   prior to Board                    1999-2000
(ERDL-1I)                      ERDL-III                       (indicative)
9. Privatization cont.).
9.7 Electricity   Prepared a comprehensive and    Transferred shares of IDECO    Continue corporate
sector            time bound commercialization    and of JEPCO to JIC.           restructuring of generation,
and privatization plan for JEA:                                transmission and distribution
companies.
Transformed JEA into a public   Agreement on strategy for
shareholding company           restructuring and privatization    Continue privatization of
(NEPCO) under Companies        of power sector, including      distribution and generation
Law.                           unbundling and privatization of   companies.
generation.
Decision for JEA to divest its
shares in IDECO and JEPCO.    Incorporation of NEPCO
generation, transmnission and
Satisfactory progress towards  distribution as.separate entities.
separation from NEPCO of
distribution assets as cost
centers.
Cabinet decision to establish an
autonomous regulatory
comnmission directly responsible
for all regulatory aspects in
l _________________    electricity  sector.
9.8 Jordan Tele-  Registered TCC as public       Decision to continue            Continue privatization of JTC.
conmnunications   shareholding company (as JTC)  privatization of JTC.
Corp. (JTC)       under Companies Law.
Satisfactory progress with     Issuance of JTC license by TRC
Privatization Ministerial      issuance of JTC license by TRC   specifying rights and
Committee decision to sell a   specifying rights and           obligations of JTC.
mninimum of 26 percent of      obligations of JTC.
shares to a strategic investor.
Issued invitation for expression
of interest to act as financial
advisor to assist with
l______________   privatization of JTC.                                                                         l
9.9 fIC           Privatization efforts within JIC    Sold minority shares in 15  Continue privatization and
to sell or liquidate two loss-  companies.                     divestiture of JIC share
making enterprises (the TV                                     holdings.
production Comipany and the    Sold 35 percent share of Jordan
Glass Factory).                Himeh Minerals.
Signed private sector
management contract for Jordan
Poultry Processing and
Marketing Company.
Sold 40 percent share of Jordan
Vegetable Oil Company.



Annex II
Page 1 of 2
MOP Schedule D
Status of Bank Group Operations in Jordan
A. IBRD Loans in the Operations Portfolio
As of 19-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions             and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year           Borrower             Purpose
IBRD        Cancellations   Undisbursed   Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 52
Active Projects
JO-PE-39749     1999   Government of Jordan      Health Sector Reform          35.00           0.00        35.00        0.00        0.00
JO-PE-48521     1999   Government of Jordan      Amman Water & Sanita          55.00           0.00        55.00        0.00        0.00
JO-PE-35997     1998   Government of Jordan      Second Tourism Dev.           32.00           0.00        30.70        4.30        0.00
JO-PE-49581     1998   Government of Jordan      Community Infra.Dev.          30.00           0.00        27.86        3.56        -.54
JO-PE-52297     1998   Government of Jordan      Training & Empl.               5.00           0.00         4.75        0.00        0.00
JO-PE-5323      1997   Government of Jordan      Housing Finance/Urba          20.00           0.00         9.97        3.53        0.00
JO-PE-35995     1996   Government of Jordan      Export Development            40.00           0.00        12.60        3.00        0.00
JO-PE-5307      1995   Government of Jordan      Human Res. Devt. Sil          60.00           0.00        27.55       15.14        0.00
JO-PE-5321      1995                             TA For Agriculture             6.60           0.00         1.61        1.63        0.00
JO-PE-5322      1994   Telecomnm. Corp.          Jordan Telecomm               20.00           0.00         5.70        5.51        0.00
JO-PE-5284      1993   Government of Jordan      Transport II                  35.00           0.00        11.70       11.62        0.00
JO-PE-5319      1993   Governement of Jordan     Health II                     20.00           0.00        12.25        9.27        -.64
Total                                                                         358.60           0.00       234.69       57.56       -1.18
Active Projects     Closed Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                123.90            1,321.99            1,445.89
of which has been repaid:                      .99             633.96              634.95
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                357.61              688.03            1,045.64
Amount sold           :                          0.00               11.53              11.53
Of which repaid     :                          0.00               11.53               11.53
Total Undisbursed     :                        234.69                0.00             234.69
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



Annex II
Page 2 of 2
MOP Schedule D
B. Statement of IFC Investments's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
0                    Pella                    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1987/90/93/95          Al-Hikma                2.86    0.00    2.70    0.00    2.86    0.00    2.36    0.00
1994                  Al-Keena Paper           6.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Indo-Jordan             28.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   28.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                   Jordan Telephone        15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   MODAL                   3.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.54    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   Zara                   15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    2.97    0.00    0.00
1997                   BTC                     4.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    4.00      1.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   El-Zay                  5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   Jordinvest              0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1998                   JHTC                   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   MAICO                   0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       .50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   89.69    7.91    2.70    0.00   89.69    7.38    2.36    0.00
Approvals Pending Comnmitment
Loan   Equity  Qunsi  Partic
1998                   AIHC                    0.00    3.17    0.00    0.00
1999                   JORDAN LIFE             0.00      .74    0.00    0.00
1998                   JVC                     8.00    0.00    0.00    8.00
Total Pending Conmmitmnent:          8.00    3.91    0.00    8.00



Annex Im
Page 1 of 4
Jordan at a glance                                                          5199
M. East  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       & North  middle-
Jordan    Africa  Income      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                    4.4      283    2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)               1,490     2,060    1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   6.6      583    2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                     3.7       2.3      1.2                   it 
Labor force (%)                                    5.3       3.2      1.3     GNP                            Gross
per          -               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991.97)                         capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  1i
Urban population (% of total population)            73       57       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    71       67       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            29       48       36
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)           10       10        ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)              89       71        84
Illiteracy (56 of population age 15+)               13       39        19       -Jordan
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  94    97                 -J d
Male                                              94      102      116             Lower-mriddle-income group
Female                                            95       91       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996     1997
Economic ratUos
GDP (US$ billions)                         1.6     6.2       6.6      7.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP             35.3    20.5      30.7     26.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP        33.6    29.3       55.1     51.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP               -13.8    -5.6       5A       3.6
Gross national savings/GDP               25.3    17.6       28.4     27.1
Current account balancelGDP                3.2    -0.7      -3.3      0.4     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                      0.6     3.6       4.3      3.7     Savings                   Investment
Total debtlGDP                            26.5    79.3    109.5    101.2
Total debt servicelexports                  ..    19.7       6A       7.6
Present value of debtVGDP                   ..      ..        ..    92.1
Present value of debt/exports               ..      ..        ..   117.3
Indebtedness
1976-46  1987-97    1996     1997  1998402
(average annual growth)
GDP                               8.7      3.7     1.0       1.3      2.8        -Jordan
GNP per capita                    4.5    -0.8    -1.4       -2.2      0.0              Lowermiddle-income group
Exports of goods and services    10.6      8.9     6.4       1.5      2.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996     1997     Growth rates of ouatput and investment (Y.)
(%l of GDP)                                                                   so0
Agriculture                                8.8     6.3       4.0      3.5    60
Industry                                 23.5    24A        26.2     26.0
Manufacturing                            9.9    10.6      13.2      14.0    40
Services                                  67.7    69.3      69.9     70.5    20
Private consumption                      79.0    79.4       69.0     69.8   -20    92   93
General govemment consumption            34.7    26.2       25.6     26.6              -*GDI          C  GDP
Imports of goods and services            82.7    55A        80.3     74.4
(average annual growth)               1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                7.8     2.2       6.4    -15.0   30
Industry                                  10.7     6.1      -5.9      1.3   25
Manufacturing                            7.0      7.8     -9.0      4.5
Services                                   8.3     2.7       4.0      2.5
Private consumption                       10.7     3.7       4.1      3.4     5
General govemment consumption              8.3     3.9       0.7      7.6     o
Gross domestic investment                 4.9      8.4    -13.8    -10.0   .5    92   93             5
Imports of goods and services             10.6     9.4       0.1      0.9               -:Eports    0 Imports
Gross national product                     8.5     4.1       1.4      0.5                                           .
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex HI
Page 2 of 4
Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      lnflaton (%)
Domestic prSces
(% change)                                                                        10
Consumer prices                             11.A      0.0       8.5       3.0
Implicit GDP deflator                        1.0      0.1       2.2       3.7
4
Government flnance                                                                2
(56 of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                             31.8    30.4       35.0      32.8            92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                        ..      4.0       4.3       2.7             -G DP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     -16.2    -7.1      -3.2      -3.1
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                             1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                          207      731     1,817    1,836      s,ooo
Phosphates                                  49      120       226       256 5        .
Other minerals                               ..    185        179       190
Manufactures                                32      237       741       757     3,000-
Total imports (cif)                        1,023    2,429     4,290    4,099      2
Food                                       245      473       826       761
Fuel and energy                            112      317       513       528    t,000
Capital goods                              345      404       938       916        o        __
91  92  93  94t  95  95  97
Export price index (1995=100)                 88      81        108      104
Import price index (1995=100)                 89      93        116      114                EExports     *nImports
Terms of trade (199=t100)                     99       87        93       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ Willions)                              1976    1988       1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio(%)
Exports of goods and services                611    1,803     3,663    3,573       2
Imports of goods and services              1,330    3,316     5,261     5,202      0                  1
Resource balance                            -719   -1,513    -1,597   -1,629       2  l                             2
-4
Net income                                    ..   -150        -301      -209     4e
Net current transfers                        771    1,617     1,676    1,867      -6   III
Current account balance                       52      -46      -222       29    .12'
Financing items (net)                        -85      131       345      675      146
Changes in net reserves                       33      -86      -123      -704     15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       551     828      1,007    1,962
Conversion rate (DEC, localUJS$)             0.3      0.4       0.7       0.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         437    4,900     7.277    7,061
IBRD                                         ..    282        777      749
IDA                                         39       81        67       65               F:864         A: 749
- B I 65
Total debt service                            29      608       340      427      Compossti      to 'taS$ jlrlions)
IBRD                                        ..       36       127      116                 _                       7
IDA                                          ..       2         3        3
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                D:6s7
Official grants                            397     455        172      293
Official creditors                          91      179       393      266
Private creditors                            1     434
Foreign direct investment                   ..       ..         .      180
Portfolio equity                            ..       ..        59       181             E:4.299
World Bank program
Commitments                                 10       78       180       62      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                7      83        169       94      B- IDA    D- Other mlrtilateral   P - Private
Principalrepayments                         ..       16        81       72      C-IMf                        G-Short-term
Netflows                                     6       67        89       23
Interest payments                           ..       22        49       47
Net transfers                                6      45         40       -24
Development Economics                                                                                               5/2/99



Jordan - Key Economic Indicators
Indicator                ~~~~994~  ~995     W99    199077 199V4  19999 W2000   20010  J99iV SA996-0O2001- S
National accounts (Pct GDP at curr. market prices)
Total Consumption                                        89.7    87.8    94.6    96.4       95.6    94.0    92.2  92.0          94.2    94.6    90.6
Gross domestic fixed investment                           32.8    30.6   29.6    27.6       25.7    26.5    28.0   28.2         29.4    27.5    27.5
Government investment                                    6.5     7.3     7.7      5.8      6.2      5.6      5.8    5.9        7.1      6.2      6.7
Private investment (incl. increase in stocks)           27.8    26.8   23.0    21.0       19.5    20.9    22.2  22.3          25.7    21.3    20.8
Exports (GNFS)b                                          49.3    53.5   55.1    51.2        51.0    49.9    49.6  49.4          54.4    51.4    49.7
Imports (GNFS)                                           73.2    75.3   80.3    74.4        72.3    70.4    69.6  69.3          81.5    73.4    67.7
Gross domestic savings                                    10.3    12.2    5.4       3.6      4.4      6.0     7.8    8.0         5.8      5.4      9.4
Gross national savingsc                                   23.3    26.9    28.4    27.1      25.3    26.1    26.5   26.6         20.0    26.7    26.1
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product (US$ million at current prices)   6077    6508   6645    6976       7386    7697    8128   8623          5262    7366    9152
Gross national product per capita (curr.US$, Atlas)      1480    1540    1520    1490       1530    1560    1600  1660          1345    1540    1720
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated at 1985 price)
Gross domestic product at market prices                7.6%     3.9%    1.0%     1.3%     2.2%    2.0%     2.5%   3.5%        7.6%     1.8%    3.4%
Gross Domestic Income                                  5.8%     2.8%   -3.6%     1.1%     3.5%    1.6%     2.5%   3.5%        7.9%     1.0%    3.4%
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, at 1985 price)
Gross domestic product at market prices                3.5%     0.5%   -1.7%    -1.5%    -0.6%    -0.8%    -0.2%   0.7%       1.8%    -1.0%    0.5%
Total consumption                                      -1.6%    -2.1%    0.3%    1.7%     0.7%    -2.9%    -2.4%   0.4%       0.7%    -0.5%    -0.5%
Private consumption                                   -4.4%    -4.5%    1.2%     0.6%     0.2%    -2.0%    -1.4%   0.7%       0.3%    -0.3%    -0.4%
Balance of Payments (US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                                         2985    3480   3663    3573       3770    3844    4028  4257           2825    3776    4546
Merchandise FOB                                       1424    1771    1817    1836       1762    1836    1932  2046          1598    1837    2179
Imports (GNFS)b                                        4395    4902   5261    5202        5477    5489    5669  5995          4216    5420    6196
Merchandise FOB                                       3002    3286   3815    3645       3407    3545    3726  3956          3144    3628    4207
Rcsource balance                                       -1410   -1422   -i597   -1629    -1 707   -1646   -164! -1738          -1391    -1644   -1650
Net current transfers (incl. off. Curr. transfers)      1326    1444    1676    1867       1858    1922    1839   1935          923    1832    1869
Current account balance (incl. off. cap grants)         -400    -257   -222        29         1     -51     -140  -152         -495     -77    -138
Net private foreign direct investment                      ..      ..      ..    180         94     100      145    120                  130     143
Long-term loans (net)                                   -306      -22    -84    -226        -47      -1       28    -47        -164     -66      -18
Other capital (net, incl. errors and omissions)            ..      ..       .     721       109     109      290   298            ..    307      196   e
Change in reservesd                                      -48    -280   -123    -704        -157    -157    -323   -219         -164    -293    -184
W C



Key Economic Indicators (cont.)
Act-al               Bstiliate        Ptoected                vYr P         : 
Indicator                         1994    1995    1996    1997      1998     1999    2000   2001       1991-95  1996-00 2001-053
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP at current marketprices)      -23.2%   -21.9%  -24.0%   -23.3%   -23.1%   -21.4%   -20.2% -20.2%      -26.7%   -22.4%   -18.1%
Current account balance to GDP (excl.grants)             -.11.9%    -8.9%   -9.5%    -5.5%    -4.8%    -5.5%    -5.4%  -5.3%     -18.0%    -6.1%    -5.0%
Current account balance to GDP (incl.grants)             -6.6%    -3.9%   -3.3%     0.4%      0.0%    -0.7%    -1.7%  -1.8%       -9.7%    -1.1%    -1.5%
Official foreign reserves (in millions of U.S. dollars)    431      427      698    1694      1170    1191    1510   1691           648    1253    1749
In months of imports                                       1.9      1.7     2.1      5.4      4.0      3.9      4.7    5.0          1.8     4.0      4.8
Real annual growth rates( 1985 prices)
Merchandiseexports(FOB)                                 11.9%    10.1%   -5.4%     5.6%    -1.1%      3.1%    3.0%   3.8%         7.6%     1.0%     4.1%
Primary                                                -0.6%    19.9%  -10.2%     0.4%    11.0%     3.4%     4.1%   4.8%         3.6%     1.7%     5.7%
Manufactures                                            1.9%   -13.2%    5.2%    17.4%   -12.2%    13.9%     4.0%   5.0%        -0.4%     5.7%     6.3%
Merchandise imports (CIF)                               -1.0%     1.8%   -0.1%    -2.7%    -0.8%      1.8%    2.6%   3.9%         9.2%     0.2%     3.9%
Public finance (as % of GDP at current market yrices)e
Current revenues (excl.grants)                            29.3    31.8    30.4    28.2       28.4    30.6    30.1   30.5           30.3    29.5    28.1
Grants                                                     4.1      3.7     4.7      4.5      3.9      3.8      2.7    2.6          5.0      3.9      2.4
Current expenditures                                      25.0    26.0    30.8    30.1       32.0    30.4    29.2   28.4           27.8    30.5    29.6
Current account surplus (+) or deficit(-)                  4.4      5.9    -0.4    -1.9      -3.6      0.1      0.9    2.1          2.5    -1.0    -1.5
Capital expenditure                                        6.0      7.2     7.7      5.8      6.2      5.6      5.8    5.9          6.6      6.2      5.5
Budget balance (excl. grants)                             -6.1    -5.4    -7.8    -7.7    -10.7    -7.0    -5.5   -4.0             -5.7    -7.8    -7.1
Budget balance (incl.grants)                              -1.9    -1.7    -3.2    -3.1       -6.9    -3.3    -2.8   -1.4           -0.7    -3.9    -4.7
Foreign financing                                          0.4      4.1     4.7      1.2      0.2    -0.3    -0.6   -1.4            3.7      1.0    -0.5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarketprices)                            114.0   113.1   109.8   112.8    114.6   116.6   117.7  118.9            118.2   114.3    118.3
Growth of M2 (%)                                           8.0      6.6     0.3      7.8      7.6      6.0      6.6    7.2          7.3     5.7      6.1
Private sector credit creation /total credit creation (%)  100.4   101.7   105.2   156.5     40.9    71.5    80.0   90.0          90.0    90.8    100.0
Price indices( 1985 =100)
Consumer price index (% growth rate)                     3.6%     2.3%    6.5%     3.0%      4.5%     1.9%    2.8%   2.4%         4.3%     3.7%     2.7%
GDP deflator (% growth rate)                             2.3%     3.4%    2.2%     3.7%      3.7%    2.2%     3.0%   2.5%         3.6%     3.0%     2.7%
Merchandise export price Index                              85      96      105      100       97       98      100    102        86.7   100.0   104.4
Merchandise import price index                              82      88      102      100       94       96       99    101        86.8    98.2   103.1
Merchandise termsoftrade index                             105      110     103      100      103      102      102    101        100.0   101.8   101.2
Real effective exchange rate (US$/LCU)f                     93      89       93      100      106      107      107    107        90.8    102.7   107.5
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includesuse ofMFresources. nt.
e. Central govemment. o u. p
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.                                                                            X



