Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22287-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR3.27 EQUIVALENT
(US$4.15 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - LIL
JUNE 7, 2001
Environment and Social Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 22, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
Rp.1 = US$0.0001
US$1 = Rp.9.600
FISCAL YEAR
2002 -- 2005
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CLT       -- Community Library Team
CPMU      -- Central project management Unit
DL        -- District Library
DLT       -- District Library Team
EAP       -- East Asia Pacific
GAAP      -- Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GOI              -- Government of Indonesia
IDA       -- International Development Agency
KPKN      -- Government' s Treasury Office
LGOM      -- Library Grant Operation Manual
MOF       -- Ministry of Finance
NGO       -- Non Government organization
NTB       -- West Nusa Tenggara Barat
PMM       -- Project Management Manual
PMR       -- Project Management Report
PPIU      -- Provincial project Management Unit
SA        -- Special Account
SD/MI    -- Primary schools
SLT       -- School Library Team
SOE       -- Statement of Expenditures
SPM       -- Request for Payment
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:    Mark Baird
Sector Manager/Director:    Zafer Ecevit
Task Team Leader:   Susiana Iskandar



INDONESIA
LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                       3
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        5
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                               6
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             7
2. Financial                                                                            8
3. Technical                                                                            8
4. Institutional                                                                        8
5. Environmental                                                                        9
6. Social                                                                               9
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  10
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      10
2. Critical risks                                                                      11
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      12
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             12
2. OtherNegotiation Conditions                                                         13



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                            13
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                           13
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                            14
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                      18
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                           22
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary             23
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary      24
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                         25
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     52
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                    53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                              57
MAP(S)



INDONESIA
LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EACIF
Date: May 22,2001                                Team Leader: Susiana Iskandar
Country Manager/Director: Mark Baird             Sector Manager/Director: Zafer Ecevit
Project ID: P068949                              Sector(s): EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ]Guarantee     [ 3 Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US $4.15 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit                                                             l
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.38           0.00          0.38
IDA                                                            4.15           0.00          4.15
Total:                                                         4.52           0.00          4.52
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
Responsible agency: THE NATIONAL LIBRARY
Address: JI. Salemba Raya, Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Mr. Hemandono
Tel: 62-21-3101411                Fax:                 Email:
Contact Person: Mr. Rahmat Natadjumena
Tel: 62-21-34830019              Fax:                 Email: marsela@indo.net.id
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2001       2002   1  2003       2004   1  2005
Annual    0.00        1.25       1.52       1.06      0.32
Cumulative    0.00        1.25      2.77       3.83      4.15
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS $0 Form Re. MVc 2O0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
* To develop innovative approaches to increase the use of reading materials in community libraries and
SD libraries
*   To motivate students and communities to use, enjoy and value books for recreational and informational
purposes
* To develop a strategy for community and SD library support in the rest of the participating districts,
involving local community support, NGO's and local government.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
* Students/community users demonstrate an increase in reading and wider use of library services.
* Parliaments, government agencies and donors increase and provide financial and other support to small
libraries.
* Other small libraries start to be established or are resurrected.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-0001(IDA/R2001-0003:IFC/R2001-0002)
Date of latest CAS discussion: 0 1/30/2001
"Delivering Better Public Service to the Poor. "The overriding objective of decentralization is to bring
the government closer to the people. This enhances local government transparency and accountability as
well as community participation"(para 51) and "The Bank will continue to help empower communities so
that poor everywhere have an opportunity" (para 55).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Limited use of information in daily life. Increasingly, as daily life becomes more complex, even in rural
areas, reliance on traditional wisdom and knowledge is insufficient. Knowledge of farming techniques, pest
control, birth control, disease prevention and cure, and marketing information is now gathered from
traditional sources and existing wisdom by many people. To gain additional knowledge, however, and to
move to more advanced levels, people need to develop new habits of information gathering, relying more
heavily on printed materials, and on expert sources of information, with skills that should include
approaching leaming as an interactive, live-long activity, with reading at its core, to acquire information as
part of daily life. These skills are insufficiently developed right now, especially in rural areas.
A publishing industry that has not realized its potentiaL Indonesia possesses a substantial and healthy
publishing industry, with a number of large publishers, mostly in Java, who have distribution reaches
throughout the country. School textbooks fonn the largest part of the publishing business, with the
remaining titles on sale focusing mainly on the urban, middle-class market. There is also substantial
publishing of religious texts, and especially in the urban areas and with the recent increased freedom of the
press, a vibrant market in newspapers and magazines. Because of the almost nonexistent book purchasing
power of rural and poorer segments of the community, there are almost no books serving these
communities. Bookstores exist in most urban areas, but there is very limited access to a good selection of
existing book titles in all but the largest urban areas. Most bookstores have extremely limited stocks,
mostly concentrating on textbooks and related school items (dictionaries, atlases, wallcharts), religious
texts and pulp literature. Bookstores or stalls, can be found in most towns, but of a very rudimentary
- 2 -



nature, providing testimony to the existing reach of distributors and interests of the population, but also
indicating the limits of penetration of those books that do exist.
A national public library system exists. A network of provincial public libraries, under the management
of the national library, has been active in providing library services to the public. Provincial libraries are
generally housed in adequate buildings with significant and appropriate collections; they are well attended.
In several provinces, the provincial library has been active in developing district-level libraries which serve
as true community and public libraries, with active programs and reading promotion activities. While
promising, these initiatives are very limited, because of the limited budgets, although the enthusiasm and
dedication of the staff is encouraging.
Limited resources in grassroots libraries. A limited number of grassroots, community initiatives for
small libraries and book collections can be found in all provinces. These libraries operate largely with
volunteer effort and almost no budgets, and serve small groups of constituents. They can be found in
mosques and other places of worship, and are often associated with conmnunity efforts such as youth
groups and farmers' extension groups. While remarkable for their dedication and initiative, these efforts
are limited, with extremely small donated book collections and only a limited number of useful titles. They
show the limits of what is possible with almost no resources and little training. The challenge will be to
build on the existing initiatives to make them more effective and to develop a strategy to provide long-tern
financial support.
Centralized school library supply policy. Number of primary schools with effective libraries is very
limited. In most cases, the schools have only very limited selection, inattractive to students. In general,
library book supply policies -- provided by projects -- were detennined centrally and thus took little
account of the varied needs of different schools in different localities. It was notable that, in most of the
schools librarians and class teachers had little idea as to which titles were most popular with the students.
It seems likely that their lack of interest stemmed, in part at least, from the fact that they took little if any
part in deciding which library books should be ordered for their school. The challenge will be to shift the
responsibility for determining library needs down to school and community level, at least the school-cluster
level. A teacher forum should provide opportunities for teachers to share experience concerning library
book usage and to agree on approaches to book selection and ordering.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project would build on local initiatives to develop capacity at the lowest levels. The existing
initiatives in some areas show a basic level of dedication and commitment to the importance of books and
of the provision of information, although at a limited level. The project would use this existing reservoir,
and support those locations that already have shown an interest. With this approach, stakeholder
involvement is hoped to be high, by supporting those communities that have shown an interest; it is also
expected that there will be a greater degree of sustainability resulting from the investments.
The project design will focus on ensuring that community input is maximized at different stages. The
plans for community participation include: (a) assessment and decisions on rules regarding the use and
operation of the library; (b) input into the book selection process, providing information on general
categories of subjects and specific titles to purchase; (c) decisions on outreach programs for
difficult-to-reach parts of the population (the poor, the old, ensure women's participation, children, and
people living in more remote parts of the community); (d) inclusion of regular meetings to encourage
sharing of experiences and local learning between project beneficiaries.
- 3 -



Support would be in the form of block grants to give maximum flexibility to each library. Rather than
providing top-down inputs, with the problems of appropriateness and one-size-fits-all, the project would
provide a grant, delivered in installments, to each of the libraries, for them to purchase inputs, depending on
the needs and local situation. Through this approach, the project will also deliver basic skills in planning,
resource management and accounting to a group of people working at the grassroots level. It is expected to
build also the necessary library and infon-nation services skills to provide simple but appropriate access to
reading and information sources.
Supportfor a stronger library network, witlh long-term vertical support and expertise down to the local
level. Although the national library network has been effective in its support and in further developing
provincial and district libraries, it has been constrained by limited resources. While it is important for
small community and grassroots libraries to be able to manage themselves and address their needs flexibly,
they nevertheless need to be linked and supported, especially from the technical side.
At the same time, the project will explore ways of introducing and maintaining these small libraries in a
way that will be sustainable over the long-term, without necessarily requiring constant infusion of
government funds. This would include financing such libraries from charitable donations or fund-raising
efforts, exploring the possibility of providing tax incentives for people willing to dedicate time and
resources, and working with local govermnent as well as the private sectors on awareness raising.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
L Economic       1  Technical    1  Social         1 Participation
D Financial      1 Institutional  El Environmental O Other
Institutional and Technical Development. The project would provide financial support, technical
expertise, and training to SD schools and grassroots libraries in the management of a small library and in
providing appropriate infonnation to these communities. In addition, the project would strengthen the
vertical links with the district, provincial and national libraries; especially in the areas of training and
monitoring and evaluation.
Participatory Approaches. The block grants will be managed at the local level by the library team,
including the people involved in managing the parent organization, the library managers, and
representatives of the user community. The continuation and strengthening of existing local arrangements
(school committees, informal library management teams) will be encouraged, rather than the establishment
of new structures. In all cases, libraries will need to ensure that adequate representation and involvement
from the community and users (including teachers and pupils) exists, and would be included in making
decisions on book selection, procurement of other items such as furniture, library policies, and staffing
responsibilities. Information exchanges between libraries in the same area, to share experiences and to learn
from each others activities would be encouraged. They will be encouraged to establish cluster-based
meetings to enable a horizontal leaming network.
While the involvement of the provincial and district libraries will ensure appropriate technical skills and
capabilities, physical and social distance between provincial and kabupaten levels and communities is
substantial, an assurances have to be put in place that allow for adequate community responsiveness. The
project will provide community facilitators for each library to carry out independent monitoring, trouble
shooting, providing assistance to small libraries and providing feedback on problems to implementing
agencies.
In addition, the Project will provide selected libraries with technical assistance to introduce innovative
activities to significantly promote community and student reading habits.
- 4 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will find appropriate and effective ways of supporting existing grassroots small libraries, that
have already been put in place by a few dedicated people or institutions and that provide reading materials
to the community around them. Primary schools that already have small libraries will also be included and
improved. The project emphasizes the long-term sustainability of such initiatives, by working with local
communities and charities and with local government as well as the private sector, to find optimal
configurations of support and self-initiative. The project will be implemented over a period of 3 years in
total 23 districts in 4 provinces: Central Java (10 districts), West Nusa Tenggara, NTB (7 districts), South
Sumatra (5 districts) and Bangka-Belitung (1 district). The project will cover total 770 small libraries: 25
primary school libraries and 10 community libraries in each district. Each library will receive small block
grants during the three project years, to purchase books and magazines, library materials, library furniture,
modest remodeling and to support reading promotion activities. All activities will be supported by
appropriate training and be accompanied by a monitoring and evaluation program, to ascertain
sustainability and long-term expansion of the program.
Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector         Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
_(US$M     Total     (US$M)  financing
A. Grants to small libraries (School  Other Education    2.46      54.4        2.46      63.1
library, community library and district
library
B. Institutional Development        Other Education                  0.0                  0.0
1. Strengthening Local Capacity to                       1.34      29.6       1.20       30.8
Develop School and Community
libraries
2. Project Management                                    0.72       15.9      0.24        6.2
Total Project Costs                    4.52      100.0       3.90     100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                      4.52      100.0       3.90     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Role of national, provincial and district libraries. The overall project management, monitoring and
evaluation would be under the responsibility of the National Library, in which the Central Project
Management Unit (CPMU) is established. The CPMN will also responsible for the preparation of the
procedures and criteria for the selection of participating small libraries, development of the training
materials for staff of the small libraries Training. At each project province, Provincial Project
Implementation Unit (PPIU) have been established at Provincial Library. The PPIU, supported by District
Libraries (DL) will be responsible for identification and selection of participating libraries, provision of
library grants, carrying out the training, managing the book fairs, and assisting the libraries with book
selection and purchasing, and supervision of project implementation in the small libraries. The PPIUs and
DL will work with local authorities, community leaders and with district authorities to develop a long-term
model of grassroots libraries, relying largely on community contributions and local support.
- 5 -



Role of Community in the management of the libraries
Once the eligible school library and community library have been identified, facilitator shall conduct a
meeting at each eligible library to be attended by library manager and representatives of the user
community (i.e. teachers, students, and parents in case of school libraries, and community leaders in case of
the community libraries). The purpose of the meeting is to inform the library manager and the user
community on the library grant scheme and procedures and for the community to elect the membership of
the School Library Team (SLT) and Community Library Team (CLT). SLT and CLT membership shall
reflect the balance of gender and user community. SLT and CLT will be responsible for the preparation of
the proposal, and if the grant is awarded, it shall manage and control the use of library grant. SLT and
CLT will open opportunities for the wide user-community to select books, magazines and other reading
material to be purchased for the library. SLT and CLT shall meet regularly, at least once a month, to
discuss ways to improve their library. Minutes of meetings and records of expenditures shall be put in the
announcement board for transparency and encourage greater ownership of the libraries by community.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Three types of monitoring will be done under the project.
*   The first type will be performed by the province. The monitoring will start with a baseline survey
and data collected for all libraries as part of the process of selecting participating libraries. This
will be followed by random, on-the-spot surveys starting 3 months after the participating libraries
receive the first block grant. It was agreed that each province would draw up a monitoring
schedule and would visit 10 sites per month. Over the life of the project, all libraries, including
those in remote areas, will need to be inspected during monitoring visits; provincial library staff
will be thoroughly trained in carrying out their monitoring tasks. In conducting the monitoring,
staff from provincial library will be assisted by district library.
-   PPIUs will recruit NGOs, community-based organizations, and/or individuals to assist in the
successful implementation of this project. "Community facilitator", each responsible for about
10-15 libraries and who would visit regularly to monitor activities, provide feedback to the district
and province, to assist where needed, including participating in the advocacy with local authorities.
*   During the project, it is planned to carry out an evaluation study - in the middle and towards the
end of the project, to determine project achievements and to develop a plan for large-scale
implementation. The study will be contracted out and should focus on library use and impact in
the school and the community, the extent to which support and financing is available from
community, local authority and other sources, and the implications, including long-term cost
implications, of implementation over a longer period of time and with a much larger number of
libraries.
4. Financial Management and Disbursements
A financial management assessment is be carried out by a Bank Financial Management Officer before the
appraisal of the project. During the pre-appraisal of the project it was found that the National Library as
the implementing agency (Central Project Management Unit / CPMU) has limited experience in managing
donor financed project. Therefore, the CPMU is subject to complete the agreed time based action plan (
Attachment 6-7) to ensure that CPMU, PPIUs and DLs has sound financial management practice during
- 6 -



the project implementation. This includes the adoptions of a Project Management Manual, Library Grant
Manual and provision of training to the CPMU, PPIUs, DLs and the participating libraries staff in the
relevant project management aspects. Details of the financial management arrangements, disbursement,
special account operations and audit arrangements will be provided in Annex 6.
The CPMU and PPIUs will be responsible for procurement and authorizations of expenditures under their
components. Each PPIU shall maintain separate sub-project accounts and CPMU shall consolidate them
for preparation of the project account. DLs shall be responsible for the purchases of their books and other
reading materials and making the arrangements for training of the small libraries, of which advances would
be provided by the PPIU to the DLs. The project, through PPIUs will provide library grants to small
libraries, to be released in five trenches in five semesters. The grants will be channeled through the relevant
Treasury Offices (KPKN) who shall make payments upon PPIU's request. The small libraries will open an
account in local bank, into which the grant trenches will be transferred as the conditions met. The SLT and
CLT, formed in the school libraries and community libraries, shall be responsible for uses of the grants and
maintain the accounts following the book-keeping format to be provided in the Library Grant Operation
Manual. The progress report of the participating libraries shall be put in the library's announcement board
to enable the readers community to exercise controls.
Government of Indonesia will establish a US dollars Special Account (SA) at the Bank Indonesia, under the
name of Directorate General of Budget with an authorized ceiling at $500,000. The SA deposit initially
will be limited to $250,000 until total disbursement reached $1 million. The SA's management is
essentially under the responsibility of CPMU, who prepare request for replenishment of SA as required.
The replenishment of the Special Account may be based on quarterly PMR only after the production of
PMR satisfactory to the Bank, otherwise traditional SOE and full documentation disbursement will be
used.
Given to the small nature of the expenditures, disbursements will be made against statement of expenditures
(SOEs) for library grants, training, goods, project management and individual consultants contract valued
below $50,000 equivalent each. Documentation for expenditures under the grants will be retained at the
participating libraries, and docurnentation for expenditures under the PPIUs and CPMU would be retained
at their respective offices. These documents would be made available to auditors during the annual audit,
and to the Bank upon request during the supervision mission. Other items would be disbursed with full
documentation.
The annual audit of the project accounts, including SA and SOEs, shall be furnished to the Bank no later
than six months after the end of the government fiscal year. The format of project accounts and the term
of reference for the annual audit have been agreed during appraisal. The National Library will appoint the
auditor before the negotiation.
D. Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
-7 -



o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
During project implementation, the sustainability implications for this investment will be investigated in a
study, focussing on impact and sustainability analysis.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
*   Schools and community libraries will be provided with a block grant, released in five installments every
six months. Uses of grants would be based on a positive list of expenditure items. Library managers
will receive training in the grant operation procedures including accounting and resource management.
Close monitoring of the appropriate use of the funds will be essential.
*   Existing budgets for the national and provincial libraries are small. This project represents a
substantial increase of their development budget, with increased financial responsibility and skills that
need to be acquired, for financial management and procurement.
*   While a certain amount of learning on how to use the funds appropriately is to be expected, a
monitoring program to ascertain that funds are used well will be put in place, with a clause for
termination of support for those libraries that do not provide an adequate level of service.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
*   The proposed primary school and community libraries have been managed by people who are not
trained librarians; and would require very basic skills in information management/ services. The project
will provide training in these skills, with a focus on the management of a small library facility with
emphasis on reader services.
*   Because of the paucity of book stores in many of the areas where the small libraries are located, access
to a good selection of book titles to be purchase will be one of the main difficulties. Therefore that the
project will provide support by holding mini Book Fair at the district level, giving exposure to library
managers and users to a reasonable number of good books.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The National Library will be the executing agency, with implementing units in each of the three provincial
offices of the National Library. All institutions have no experience with Bank-financed or other
donor-agency financed projects and will require substantial assistance at the beginning of the project.
4.2 Project management:
The project will require close cooperation between the national and regional libraries and a willingness to
allow the small libraries to carry out their own management and make their own decisions. This represents
a departure from the current top-down approach. The regional libraries will need to move from a focus of
implementation, to one of providing assistance, training and monitoring.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Most of the project costs will be in the library grants. The use of the grants is governed by a positive list of
eligible expenditures, and some threshold for expenditure of each specific item. Libraries will need to keep
- 8 -



records of their expenditures in an organized fashion, and will be monitored for compliance.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Library Grants Manual spells out the selection process and criteria for the participating libraries, the
flow-of-funds mechanism and retrieval of the grants, and the use of the grants funds.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
N/A
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
-   The library team should represent an adequate cross-section of community leadership which support
the community library. They should participate in: (a) assessment and identification of community
library needs; (b) decisions on book selection and procurement; (c) decisions on rules of use and
operation of the library, including outreach activities to difficult-to-reach groups; and (d) sharing of
ideas and lessons leamed with other communities.
*   Community facilitators at grassroots level and consultants at provincial level would be involved in
ensuring that the role of the community is taken seriously, and to help in bringing in the communities
and in setting up the consultation process.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
* For the primary school libraries, beneficiaries will be the students and teachers. In each school, a
library committee, which represent the beneficiary groups, will be responsible for guiding the
management of the library, including the selection of the books. Teachers will be heavily involved in
book selection.
* For the community libraries, beneficiaries will be the people from the community and from the groups
that are involved with the community activities (religious organizations, youth groups, farmers' groups,
etc.). For each library, a library team which represent the beneficiary groups will provide inputs and
oversight to the library's management and book selection.
-9-



*   Overall, the beneficiary libraries that are involved in the project will benefit from this new bottom-up
approach.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
*   There are two ways in which NGO could involve in this project. First, local NGO and/or consultants
will be hired to work with a number of libraries to introduce 'innovative' approaches aimed at
improving reading habit. Secondly, NGO and community-based organizations will be involved as
"community facilitators" who will be responsible for monitoring, feedback and providing assistance
where needed. They will ensure that the community needs are adequately addressed and promote the
use of the library in the community, ensuring that marginal groups are not left out, and that the
community is aware of the services.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
*   Provinces and districts will need to ensure, in their selection of the libraries, that library management is
handled by the community and involves representation of the user community.
*   In the middle and towards the end of the project, impact and sustainability evaluation will be carried
out, to ascertain the long-term viability of the libraries and their usefulness to the society.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Commurity involvement and participation for sustainability will be measured as follows: (i) there is an
increase in participation and support from the community to the library; and (ii) local governments are
allocating increased budgets to libraries during the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do an of the following safeguard policies apply to the pro ect?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A
- 10 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating   |          Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The conununity library will not be           M          Membership of Library committees will
integrated into community activities.                   represent a cross-section of community/school
leadership which actively support the library.
Training for library managers will emphasize
how to develop and implement effective reader
services and outreach activities.
Use of library resources will not be         M          Training materials for school library team will
integrated into classroom teaching and                  include the use of library resources to support
learning because teachers will not change               classroom teaching and learning.
their teaching methods.
School library will not be used by           M         Library staff will be given training in book
teachers and students because the                       selection and acquisition procedures. The library
materials are inappropriate, unattractive,              committee will provide input into the selection of
or choice of book titles is limited.                   books to be purchased for the library. A book
fair mechanism will be designed to insure that a
wide variety of good books will be available for
selection and purchase.
Project model will not be appropriate for    M         An impact evaluation study will be performed in
large-scale replication.                               the third year of the project to ascertain if the
project can be logistically and cost-effectively
replicated on a large-scale basis.
The local government does not take up        S          Indication of sufficient support from local
lessons learned from the project to                     government towards project objectives be used
develop a strategy for community and                    as a criteria in the selection of participating
primary school library support in the rest              districts.
of the country. This is because library has
not been a priority of the local                        Local government personnel are included in
government. Moreover, the national                     project coordination meeting and other selected
library as the project executing agency                 activities.
has neither institutional nor functional
relationship with the local government.
Community, private institution and local     M         An innovative approach will be introduced to
government will not respond to the                      selected libraries in selected districts to promote
initiatives                                            both reading habits and community, private
organization, and local government participation
in the library development.
- 11 -



The project will end up in delivering        M          Some initiatives will be introduced: (a) The
books and training but fail to promote a                training curriculum for community leader,
reading culture                                         school heads and librarian will include
techniques on promoting reading habits; (b)
Reading habit competitions; and (c) Hiring
NGOs to introduce innovative approaches to
promoting reading habits.
From Components to Outputs
Suitable primary school libraries are not    M         The selection process will use baseline surveys
selected for the project.                              and site visits to make the final selection of
libraries to be included in the project. Site visits
Suitable community libraries are not                    will be carried out by provincial and district
selected for the project.                              library staff, accompanied by a provincial
consultant. Provincial and district library
staff will be trained in carrying out field
surveys.
Library staff will receive inappropriate     M          The training program will be very practical and
training.                                               specifically designed to meet the needs of library
managers who run very small libraries.
Purchasing access to a good selection of     M          The project will support holding book fairs at
book titles will be one of the main                    the district level so library managers and users
difficulties because of the paucity of book             can be exposed to good books. Library staff
stores in many of the areas where the                   are given training in book/subscription selection
small libraries will be located.                        and acquisition procedures.
Funds will be misused.                       M          Library managers will receive basic skills
training in planning, resource management and
accounting to effectively use grants. Library
team will be actively involved in management
oversight. A monitoring program -- coordinated
by Project Management Consultants at CPMU
and PPIUs -- to ascertain that funds are
appropriately used will be designed and
implemented. Regional library staff will be
trained in project monitoring. Training Plan for
library managers and team will be agreed at the
negotiation. Status report of the use of the
grants will be posted in announcement board
both in each library and other local public space.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 12 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
NA
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Issuance of Project Management Manual and Library Grant Manual.
Selection process of Project Management Consultant and Procurement-Financial Management Consultant
has been completed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Negotiation Conditions
*   Decrees on establishment of CPMU and PPIUs and appointment of the staff
*   Draft Project Management Manual
*   Draft Library Grant Manual
*   Training plan for community and school librarian, district library and PPIU staff on Library Grant
Manual
* Letter to Auditor (agreed during appraisal) confirming the audit arrangements
*   TOR for Project Management Manual training acceptable to the Bank
3 Letter of expression of the participating District Libraries concerning agreement and readiness to assist
with the Project Implementation
Dated Covenant
Signing of contracts for Project Management and Procurement-Financial Management Consultant shall not
be later than July 3 1, 2001 .)
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 13-



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Susiana Iskandar                  Zafer Ecevit                       Mark Baird
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 14 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Delivering better public                               *  Country education
services to the Poor                                      sector reports
Follow-on Development
Objective:
To improve learning for     *  Value and relevance of    *  Impact evaluation study Teachers support and adopt
children and adults            community/school                                  teaching methods which
libraries as perceived by                        approach learning as an
children, teachers and                           interactive, live-long activity,
members of the                                   with reading at its core.
community
Project Development       Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To develop innovative       *  Use of primary school    *  Impact evaluation study   *  Use of library resources
approaches to increasing the   library resources is                                   is integrated into
use of reading materials in    integrated into                                        classroom teaching.
community libraries and SD     classroom teaching and
libraries                       students use SD
resources for
recreational reading
outside school and take
materials home
To motivate students and    *  Use of community         *  Impact evaluation study   *  Outreach activities will
community to use, enjoy and     library is integrated into                            be emphasized in the
value books for recreational    community activities                                 training program for
and informational purposes as                                                         library managers.
part of their natural
development, and to increase
their use of SD and
community library services
To develop a strategy for   *  Students/ community     *  Impact evaluation study   *  Parliaments and govt.
community and SD library       users demonstrate                                      agencies provide
support in the participating   increase in reading and                                financial support
districts.                     wider use of library
services
*  Improvements made in    *  Impact evaluation study   *  Comnunity /school
primary school and                                    administrations provide
community libraries are                              financial and/or other
sustainable after the                                types of support
project is completed
*  Dissemination to        *  Impact evaluation study
non-project sites
- 15 -



:     X      ;  f:~Key  intfranel70     ;   0              ;;         :f
Hierarchy of  bjeies          Key Per frmance         *M tog A& Evaluation    CriboAssumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Usage of library increases  Community libraries:                                  Library managers employ
*  Number of books       Library records             outreach activities to
checked out increases by                         motivate students and
20% on average per year                           community to use books for
per district and per                             recreational and informational
province                                         purposes
* Number of people visits Library records            The project libraries will have
increases by 20% on                              purchasing access to good
average per year, per                            selection of book titles.
district and per province
School libraries:
*  At least 75% of teachers Library records
regularly check out
books by the end of the
project               Library records
*  Number of books
readlchecked out
increases by 25% on
average per year per
school
Appropriate library        Community libraries:
management                   *  Opening hours at least 3 Supervision reports      Library managers receive
hours/day, 6 hours/week                          basic training in accounting
for all libraries                                and resource management.
*  Clean, orderly library,   Supervision reports
variety of collection and
staffed adequately
School libraries:
*  Opening hours at least 4 Supervision reports
hours during school
days (50% during and
50% outside class hours)
*  In multi-school       Supervision reports
libraries: all schools
participate equally
*  Clean, orderly library,   Supervision reports
variety of collection and
staffed adequately
- 16 -



User representation reflects   Community libraries:
client group                 *  Substantial            Library records
representation by
age/gender within client
group
School libraries:          Library records
* Students reading/
checking out books are
equally represented by
grade and gender
Community involvement and  Community libraries:                                    Library management
participation for sustainability   *  Increase in participation Monitoring program  represent a cross-section of
(labor, books, money)                             community/school leadership
from community to                                 which actively support the
library                                           library.
* New libraries are being Monitoring program
established in districts
during the project by
community and local
government
*  Local governments are  Monitoring program
allocating increased
budgets during the
project
School libraries:
*  Student participation in  Supervision reports
library operations
*  Community actively    Monitoring program
involved and
participating in library
operations
Provincial and district library  Provincial and district  Monitoring program       If libraries fail to provide a
institutional capacity is  government increase technical                           worthwhile service, support
increased                  and financial support to                                will not be forthcoming.
non-project libraries
- 17 -



K_y Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         lndicatos          Mnitring & Ealuation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
A. Grants to primary school  2.46
and community libraries:
B. Institutional Development
1. Strengthening Community  1.34
Capacity
2. Project Management     0.60
Honoraria for project staff
amounting USD 0.12 to be
funded from counterpart
budget.
- 18 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.46 million
Grants to small libraries
Participating libraries. The project will be implemented over a 3 year period in a total 23 districts locations
(primary school and village community libraries) in 4 provinces: Central Java (10 districts), West Nusa
Tenggara, NTB (7 districts), South Sumatera (5 districts), and Bangka-Belitung (1 district). The project
will cover total 770 small libraries: 25 primary school libraries and 10 community libraries in each district.
Selection. Participating libraries will be selected based upon submission of interest from community and
school libraries preceded by a widespread announcement of the availability of these funds. Interested
libraries will be asked to fill in questioners. In each district, a committee, with balanced membership
between representatives of relevant local bureaucrats and private and community-based organization, will
be appointed by head of district (Bupati/Walikota) to be function as selection committee. Based on the
returned questioners, the committee will identify a number of qualified libraries to be verified by
community facilitators. The committee will then propose the best 25 primary school libraries and 10
community libraries to Provincial Project Implementation Unit (PPIU). The verified data of the selected
libraries will be used as baseline data.
Criteria for selection. In order to participate, primary school libraries shall have an active school
committee, a staff / teacher who is in charge of the library, sufficient numbers of students to be a viable
example (minimum number would be 100 students for Central Java and 60 students for NTB, South
Sumatera and Bangka-Belitung), sufficient class teachers to adequately teach the students, a library corner
with at last 9 square meters with minimum collection of 40 titles (non-textbooks), the library should have
been actively utilized by the students and clear indication of the school head commitment to library use and
maintenance. For several schools located on one site and having connected playing areas, only one of the
primary schools in the complex would receive the support for the library based on above criteria - but will
serve the other adjacent schools.
Selection of community libraries will be based on the following criteria: The libraries should have a formal
organization, specific target readers (for example, farmer groups, youth groups, religious groups, women
groups), two staff with minimum junior secondary education, a library room of at last 9 square meters,
minimum collection of 40 titles (non-textbooks), a clear indication that the library should have been
actively utilized by the community for at least one year, and indication of local community and authority
support (such as availability of small fund and other in-kind support to maintain the libraries).
Each library will receive small block grant - paid twice yearly - during the three project years. Community
libraries will receive initial grant Rp. 6 million with six-monthly follow up grants of Rp. 4.5 million for the
remainder of the project. Initial grant will be Rp. 5 million for single-school library and Rp. 7 million for
multiple-school library, with follow up grants of Rp. 3.5 million and Rp. 5.5 million respectively every six
months. For total amount received per library, see Table 1. The initial grant will be provided in the first
semester of 2002 to all selected libraries upon completion of conditions for the contract agreement between
the libraries and the PPMU. The subsequent payments will be provided on performance basis. Payment
mechanism and conditions are to be detailed in the Library Grant Manual.
- 19 -



Table I -- Grant per library
Amount received fIDR '000)
Type of              Year 2002           Year 2003      Year 2004 Total per
Libraries          Smt. I    Smt. 2    Smt. I    Smt. 2    Smt. 1    library
Single school         5,000     3,500     3,500     3,500     3,500    19,000
Multiple School        7,000     5,500     5,500     5,500     5,500    29,000
Community             6,000     4,500     4,500     4,500     4,500    24,000
Communities and schools will be heavily involved in the management of the library and the use of the
grant. The existing library team would be responsible for library management, augmented with
representation from the users. This team would meet regularly and make decisions on book selection,
procurement of other items such as furniture, library policies, and staffing responsibilities. Library team
would also meet, on a regular basis, with stakeholders from other community libraries in the same area, to
share experiences and to learn from each others activities.
Project Component 2 - US$2.06 million
Institutional Development
A. Strengthening local capacity to develop schools and community in developing libraries - US$1.34
million
Many of the activities will be new to the communities and school library managers; and to the district and
provincial libraries. The project will provide training and technical assistance for capacity building in these
activities.
1. Training and workshops. A minimum of library skills will be needed for these libraries, with the
emphasis on reader services, rather than on collection organization. Special training programs will be
designed to help community and school libraries and will be delivered by a team of trainers consisting
of expertise from the national library, national consultant and independent trainers. The training will be
given to staff of the provincial and district libraries, who will then be responsible for ensuring that
library managers of the community and school libraries acquire the necessary set of minimum skills.
Training curriculum will include techniques on promoting reading habits and community participation.
Information dissemination activities. During the project, a series of public forum meetings will be
held, to advertise and make the project known to the media, NGO's and the general public. These
meetings will also be used for community libraries within the same area to meet with each other and to
share experiences and learn from each other.
2. Socialization for community, private institution, NGOs and local authorities. Annual meetings will
be held regularly for community, private institutions, NGOs, and local authorities to update them with
the status of the project and to seek for their participation and support for the sustainability of the
participating libraries and possible adoption of the project approaches to other libraries.
3. Library innovation program. Selected libraries will be given additional inputs in the form of technical
assistance by specialist NGOs who will introduce new approaches to improve reading habits and
community participation in library operations. The impact of these additional inputs will be closely
monitored and evaluated for possible wider dissemination. At the same time a series of reading habit
competitions (including short story writing) will be conducted for all libraries. The best manuscript
will be compiled and published by CPMU.
4. Studies. Evaluation studies will be carried out during the third year of the project to determine project
- 20 -



achievements and to develop a plan for large-scale implementation and recommendations for
sustainability. The study should focus on library use and impact in the school and the community, the
extent to which support and financing is available from different sources, the effectiveness of the grants
approach, and the implications, including long-term cost implications, of implementation over a longer
period of time and with a much larger number of libraries. Based on the findings and analysis, the
studies should also develop ways of introducing and maintaining these small libraries in a way that will
be sustainable over the long-term, without necessarily requiring constant infusion of government funds.
This would include financing such libraries from charitable donations or fund-raising efforts, and
working with local government as well as private sectors on awareness raising.
5. Bookfor district libraries. District libraries are public libraries run and financed by participating
district local government. The project will finance provision of books and other reading materials for
such libraries. The budget provided is total Rp. 25 millions (Rp. 15 millions in first semester and Rp.
1O millions in third semester of their participation). To provide the district librarian with access to
information of books available in the market, they will be sent to Jakarta to attend annual national book
fair.
6. Book Fair. Because of the paucity of selection in most districts and rural areas, books fair will be
mounted twice by each district libraries during the project life. The participating district libraries will
display books they purchased earlier and book catalogues. The book fair is intended to help the
participating libraries in identifying and selecting books. The book fair will be organized at same time
when the participating libraries follow the library training. Each district library will receive Rp. 5
millions to organize the initial book fair (semester 1) and Rp. 3 millions for follow-up book fair
(semester III) for each phase. It is expected that publishers will participate in the book fair.
7. Library Cluster Meeting. The participating libraries in each district will establish cluster meetings. In
each district there will be one cluster of conmmunity libraries and two clusters of school libraries. The
library team will meet regularly to share experiences. The community facilitators and district librarian
will occasionally join the meeting to provide some technical assistance.
8. Consultants. The CPMU will hire Project Management and Procurement-Financial Management, and
Training consultants. Each PPMU will hire a Project Management consultant. For supervision and
monitoring purpose, the PPMUs will employ 4 to 5 district-based community facilitators for each
district which will be working under coordination of the Project Management consultant.
B. Project Management - US$0.72
1. Monitoring and Evaluation. Two types of monitoring will be done under the project.
*   The first type will be performed by the project management team and provincial library staff. The
monitoring will be aimed at assuring quality of the implementation of each components (grants and
training activities). Some beneficiary libraries will be randomly selected for on-the-spot surveys
starting 3 months after the participating libraries receive the first block grant. All libraries,
including those in remote areas, will need to be inspected during monitoring visits. Provincial
project management, who is also responsible for monitoring and evaluation, will thoroughly
prepare provincial and district library staff in carrying out their monitoring tasks.
*   In each district, "Community facilitators", will be recruited to regularly visit the beneficiary
libraries. They will monitor activities, to assist where needed, including participating in the
advocacy with local authorities, and provide feedback to the district and provincial project
management. They will work under coordination of the provincial monitoring consultant. They
will receive extensive training on the project knowledge. They will be recruited individually
(NGOs, volunteers and/or teachers) and will be paid on activity/visit-base, covering travel
allowances.
- 21 -



2. Operational Cost will cover recurrent cost for project management such as honorariurn for project
staff, office supplies, travel allowances and utilities.
- 22 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Note: Due to roundina, some figures suppressed to zeros.
_________~~~~~~~t                     tb%iO4US$m    U$rmihion.,
A Grants to Small Libraries                 1.71        0.00        1.71
B. 1. Strengthening Capacity of School
and Community to develop library       0.97         0.00        0.97
2. Project Management                    0.54         0.00        0.54
Total Base Cost                          3.22         0.00        3.22
Physical Contingencies                  0.48                    0.48
Price Contingencies                     0.82        0.00        0.82
Total Project Cost      4.52        0.00        4.52
Total Financing Required      4.52         0.00        4.52
Local       Foreign       Total
Proiect Cost by Category       USS million  US$ million  US$ million
I Grants to Small Libraries                  2.46         0.00         2.46
2 Goods                                      0.12         0.00         0.12
3 Technical Asistants                        0.65         0.00         0.65
4 Training                                   0.57         0.00         0.57
5 Project Management                         0.60         0.00         0.60
6 Honorarium (100% GOI funded)               0.12         0.00         0.12
Total Project Cost      4.52         0.00         4.52
Total Financing Required       4.52         0.00         4.52
Note: Due to rounding, some figures suppressed to zeros
I/Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 4.52 (US$m).
Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 92% of total project cost net of taxes.
- 23 -



Annex 4
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Impact and Sustainability Analysis
The main question to be answered is to investigate the sustainability implications for an
investment such as this. This can only be done after the project has been in operation for a while.
An impact and sustainability analysis, which would include an economic analysis but would go
beyond that in discussing a broader set of factors, will be carried out during the third year of the
project, with Terms of Reference prepared and approved by the Bank during the first year of
project implementation.
The sustainability analysis would need to provide answers and evidence for the following:
*  What set of services will keep the public as active users of the library.
*  What are the ranges of the costs of such services.
*  How can revenue be generated over the long run.
*  What would need to be the minimum contribution provided by government, to sustain the
viability of such initiatives. This would also need to look at and discuss
other-than-financial contributions, such as setting the right framework for allowing these
activities to operate.
*  What part of the contributions could usefully be provided by the community, and in kind.
X  What are the factors that would work against long-term viability of these libraries; and
how could they be mitigated. In other words, what would be the factors that would kill
such initiatives.
During project implementation, technical assistance will be provided, to develop ways of
introducing and maintaining these small libraries, without requiring constant infusion of
government funds. This would include financing such libraries from charitable donations or
fund-raising efforts, exploring the possibility of providing tax incentives for people willing to
dedicate time and resources, and working with local government on awareness raising. the
sustainability analysis will review these efforts, assess their impact, and give recommendations on
future directions and activities.
The focus of the attention of the analysis will be to thoroughly review and discuss the impact of
the library services provided on the community and on the school. To what extent has the library
become integrated into the lives of the people in the community; which section of the community;
does it make a qualitative or quantitative difference in their lives. In the school, has the library
become a part of the curriculum and of the way teachers teach and children learn in school.
The analysis should also discuss and make recommendations on whether and how to expand and
go to scale with grassroots library activities. To what extent is initial pump-priming by
government necessary to get them started; what provides a basic, minimal environment for such
initiatives to take off, in terms of commitment, skills and resources.
- 24 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I      IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Total Financing Required    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
Project Cost
Investtnent cost           0.56      1.67      1.62      0.68
Recurrent cost             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total project cost           0.56      1.67      1.62      0.68
Total Financing Required     0.56      1.67      1.62      0.68
Financing
IBRD/IDA                     0.48      1.54      1.50      0.65
Governrment
Central                    0.08      0.13      0.12      0.03
Provincial                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Co-financiers              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Users Fees/Beneficiaries   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Others                     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Financing Required     0.56      1.67       1.62      0.68
- 25 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Assessment. The last CPAR conducted on Indonesia was in February 2000, and the Final
Report was issued in February 2001. The Assessment on agency's capacity to implement procurement was
carried out by Bank staff, and the Report was issued in March 2001, with the following outcome:
*   The proposed implementing agencies do not have the adequate capacity to implement procurement and
will need to hire at least a person with procurement proficient as a procurement officer to support the
project for procurement management and to provide training.
* The clarifications on the agreed procedures to be followed for National Shopping will be included in
the Project Management Manual, to ensure consistencies with the Bank Procurement Guidelines.
* The Assessment also found that the overall procurement risk is high.
1.    Guidelines. Procurement of works, goods, and related services funded wholly or partly by the
World Bank shall follow the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the
Procurement Guidelines).
Employment of consultants shall be based on the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant
Guidelines)
2.    Procurement Plan, Strategy, and Standard Documents. The Procurement Plan providing a
timeline for each step of the procurement process has been prepared and will be updated annually. Each
update of procurement plan will require the Bank's prior no objection. The standard request for
quotations/contracts (for works and goods), and the standard request for proposals (for selection of
consultants) are attached tc the PIP and agreed with the Bank prior to negotiation. Since all consulting
services contracts are expected to be less than USD 200,000, the shortlist may comprise of entirely national
consultants, in which case, request for proposals in Bahasa Indonesia (acceptable to the Bank) will be used.
This document is the translated version of the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP).
3.     Goods ,Equipment, and Printing Services (US$ 0.13 million equivalent, including
contingencies).
(a) Contracts for goods and equipment, procured by the National Library (Perpustakaan
Nasional/Perpusnas - CPMU) and Perpustakaan Nasional Propinsi (Perpusnasprop - PPIJ), to support the
operation of this project include: furniture, air conditions, computers and office equipment, are available
off the shelf and expected to cost less than USD 50,000 equivalent per contract. These contracts will be
procured through national shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Procurement Guidelines, i.e., written quotations obtained from at least three reputable suppliers on the
basis of a detailed description and quantity of goods, as well as the desired delivery time and place, and the
award will be made to the lowest priced responsive bid. The aggregate for this component is USD 70,000.
(b) Books and other reading materials for District Libraries (up to a maximum aggregate amount of USD
67,000 equivalent) are proprietary and expected to cost less than USD 10,000 equivalent per contract.
Titles of the books and other reading materials will be identified by the District Library Team through the
following activities:
- 26 -



*   Browsing the catalogue
*   Attending the book fair or other similar events
*   From list of books at bookstores.
Based on the above selected titles, each library will prepare a purchase plan. Such purchase would be
conducted through the following options:
*   Purchase from bookstores with verification of prices by comparing with the published price list by the
publishers.
*   If such books are not available at the bookstores, then the respective library may have a direct contract
with publishers.
(c) Printing services: The winning titles of the reading habit competition described in paragraph 5.1 below
will be printed following national shopping procedures.
4.     Grants for School and Community Libraries (US $ 2.46 million equivalent, including
contingencies). The use of the grant will be governed by a positive list, indicating what the money can be
spent on. This list has been approved by the Bank, and is in Attachment 6-2 to this Annex. The applicable
procurement procedures under the Grants is described below and will be adopted in The Grant Manual
acceptable to the Bank.
The availability of these grants will be announced in the national press, radio, and billboards. All
interested libraries will be allowed to participate; a shortlist of libraries will be prepared, based on criteria
approved by the Bank. Each of the shortlisted libraries will be visited by a monitoring team, to ensure the
accuracy of the data provided and to give the baseline data for the project, before the selection is made.
Sufficient staff and funds will be provided to support such visit by monitoring team. Grants are Rp 6
million (initial) - which is USD 625 equivalent ,and Rp 4.5 million (subsequent) which is USD 469
equivalent for community libraries; Rp 5 million (initial) - which is USD 521 equivalent and Rp 3.5
million (subsequent) - which is USD 365 equivalent for single schools and Rp 7 million (initial) - which is
729 equivalent and Rp 5 million (subsequent) - which is USD 521 equivalent for multiple schools. The
grants will cover: books and magazines (at least 60% of the grant), library materials (posters, book repair
material, paper, writing materials), simple fumiture and furnishings of the library (e.g., bookshelves, book
boxes, tables, display boards, mats, chairs), simple equipment (typewriter, tape recorder, other electrical
equipment, provided electricity is available and a budget for its use is provided), money for library
promotion activities (reading and storytelling hours, activities using the library and dealing with books such
as recipe showing), and minor repairs and improvement to make the library room usable (installation of a
door, locks, adding a window, etc. for not more than 20% of the first grant).
4.1 Procurement of books and magazines under the grants (US$ 1.48 million equivalent,
including contingencies). Each Grant recipient will have a maximum of USD 2,000 equivalent to
purchase books, magazines, and other reading materials. Most of the libraries especially those in
the rural areas will be far remote from bookstores that have a sufficient selection to provide the
right kind of materials to these libraries. Publishers are also not willing to mount district level
book fairs, with the expectation of relatively small sales. It is, therefore, planned that district
libraries would be responsible for ensuring that a sufficient selection of the right materials is
available in a district. District libraries will be required to hold book fairs in their district to be
attended by all participating community and school libraries. Each of the participating libraries
would then prepare a detailed description and quantity of books, and purchase directly from the
- 27 -



bookstores/publishers. Before committing on the prices, the Grant Recipients will verify the prices
to ensure that the prices are reasonable before order is placed by comparing with published price
list by the publishers. For this purpose, the standard fonn will be developed and included in the
Grant Manual.
4.2 Works (USD 0.13 million equivalent, including contingencies). Minor repairs and
improvement are expected to be very small in nature in each library. The maximum grant portion
per grant recipient for this work is IDR 2.4 million (USD 320 equivalent). Each library may hire
qualified foremen/laborers from within the Community at market unit rates who will be paid on
daily basis. The materials for repair works will be purchased by the respective library directly from
suppliers/providers with records on comparison of prices to ensure that the prices are reasonable.
For this purpose, the standard form will be developed and included in the Grant Manual.
4.3 Goods and Equipment (USD 0.50 million equivalent, including contingencies). Goods and
equipment procured under the Grants category may include library materials (posters, book repair
material, paper, writing materials), simple furmiture and furnishings of the library (e.g.,
bookshelves, book boxes, tables, display boards, mats, chairs), simple equipment (typewriter, tape
recorder, other electrical equipment, provided electricity is available and a budget for its use is
provided), with total amount per Grant recipient is not to exceed USD 1,500 equivalent.
Those goods/equipment will be purchased following national shopping procedures. For this
purpose, a standard form, which will be used by the Grant Recipients in obtaining prices, will be
developed and included in the Grant Manual.
4.4 Library Promotion Activities (USD 0.35 million equivalent, including contingencies).
Library promotion activities include:
(a) Hiring of a number of individuals for reading and storytelling hours. These individuals will be
hired on the basis of qualification of the local people as identified by the Library Team and the
Community. The Terms of Reference for such individuals are stated in Attachment 6-3.
(b) Activities using the library and dealing with books (for example: reading and writing
competition) are part of incremental operating expenses of each library. Therefore, expenditures
for these activities will follow Govemment procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.     Training and Workshops (US $ 0.57 equivalent, including contingencies). The activities under
this category includes : (a) Information dissemination/orientation to local government, legislative body,
private institutions, and other parties, (b) Reading habit competition, (c) Book fair, and (d) Project
management and library training activities.
5.1 Information Dissemination, Reading Habit Competition, and Book Fair (US$ 0.11 miflion
equivalent, including contingencies). The dissemination of information on or about this project
would be conducted through meetings with the stakeholders as well as press release, in which
government procedures acceptable to the Bank will apply.
The Project also intends to have a reading habit competition which will be carried out by PPIU
and the District Libraries following the govemrnent procedures acceptable to the Bank. As the
outcome of the competition, the winning titles will be selected to be printed (see paragraph 3
above).
The District Libraries will also conduct a book fair, which expenditures will be spent following the
government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
- 28 -



5.2 Training (US$ 0.46 million equivalent, including contingencies) for provincial and district
librarians, community and school library managers, and staff carrying out the monitoring process
will be carried out by trainers from the national library and from the provincial libraries. Such
trainers will be identified and selected by PPIUs and CPMU. The Terms of Reference and
qualification requirements for such trainers are found in Attachment 6-3. After the selection of
these trainers are completed, then these trainers will be trained by the training consultants (NOTE:
the training consultants will be hired under procedures as described in paragraph 7). Since these
trainers are government officials, the fees for trainers are not eligible for Bank financing and shall
be financed through the Govenmment's own budget. The training related expenditures (such as:
staff travel and subsistence allowances, provisions for consumable materials, and other
training-related activities) would follow government administrative procedures.
6.     Project Management (US$ 0.60 million equivalent, including contingencies). Support for
project management activities including travel and subsistence allowances, office support, meeting support,
project review and annual plan workshop for local governmenit and community/private institutions, and
provision of consumable materials are incremental operating cost, which would be provided in accordance
with Government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
7.     Consultant Services (US$ 0.65 million equivalent, including contingencies). The technical
assistance for impact evaluation and analysis studies (USD 66,010 equivalent) will be selected in
accordance with Selection Based on Consultant Qualification procedures (CQ). The selection process will
be carried out by CPM&U.
8.     Procurement Review by the Bank. It is expected that about 14% of total expenditures would be
subject to prior review.
The following prior review thresholds have been established':
*   Works:                      USD 50,000
*   Goods:                      USD 25,000
*   Consultant Services:        USD 50,000 (finns) and USD 25,000 (individuals) and TORs for all
contracts.
All other contracts below the above thresholds are subject to random post review conducted biannually by
the Bank to cover at least 20% of contracts implemented in that period. The sampling should be selected
such that priority be given to provinces/implementing agencies with more procurement problems and need
more assistance. In addition to the standard ex post review, specific procurement management review
should also be conducted including the assessment of the effectiveness of GOI's monitoring and supervision
implementation with respect to procurement. The contracts which are subject to prior review shall be
determined from the procurement plan up front, which is updated annually acceptable to the Bank.
1/ Due to the fluctuation of the Rupiah value to a US Dollar, it would be beneficial to the Project to have a fixed exchange rate
in order to determine whether such contract packages are subject to the Bank's prior review. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance
has issued a decree to state that the exchange rate to be used for determining the threshold for prior review is at IDR
IO,000/USD. This understanding will be updated from time to time with Bank's prior agreement.
- 29 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Methodl/
ICB       NCB       Other2/      NBF    Total Cost
1. Goods                      0.00       0.00       0.13       0.00       0.13
(0.00)     (0.00)     (0. I 0)   (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Grants                     0.00       0.00       2.46       0.00       2.46
(0.00)     (0.00)     (2.46)     (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Training                   0.00       0.00       0.57       0.00        0.57
(0.00)     (0.00)     (0.46)     (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Project Management         0.00       0.00       0.60       0.00        0.60
(0.00)     (0.00)     (0.48)     (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Consultant                 0.00       0.00       0.65       0.00       0.65
(0.00)     (0.00)     (0.65)     (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Honoraria                  0.00       0.00       0.12       0.00       0.12
(0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.00)
Total                         0.00       000        4.53       0.00       4.53
________=____________    (0.00)         (0.00)      4.15      (0.00)      4.15
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, direct contract, community
participation, and consulting services.
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Service                                   Selection method
Expenditure Category    OCBS    OBS         SFB      LCS       CO    Other   NBF         Total Cost 1/
A. Firms                    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.07     0.00      0.00       0.07
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.07)   (0.00)   (0.00)       (0.07)
B. Individuals              0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.34     0.24      0.00       0.58
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.34)   (0.24)   (0.00)        0.00
Total             0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.41      0.24     0.00        0.65
(0.001 (0.00)   (0.00)  J0)L 0.0L   (0.41)   (0.24)    0.00            0.65)
1/ Including contingencies
Note:    QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 30 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review i/
Contract value     Procurement      Contracts Subject
Expenditure Category         Threshold           Method          to Prior Review
(US$ Thousand)
1. Goods
- Office equipment/supplies        25,000.00     National Shopping          0.03
and printing
- Books/reading materials          25,000.00     Direct Contract            0.00
2. Grants
Community                 0.00
Works                              50,000.00      Participation
Books                              25,000.00      Direct Contract
Other Goods                        25,000.00     National Shopping
3. Training 2/                        --                 N/A                0.00
4. Project Management 2/               --                N/A                0.00
5. Consultant
- Impact evaluation studies         50,000.00            CQ                 0.07
- Innovative approach to reading   50,000.00             CQ                 0.00
promotion and community parti-
pation
- Individual assignments           25,000.00      Individual                0.55
TOTAL  _                                             0.65
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 31 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceed
Amount in     Amount in       Financing
Exvenditure Categorv    US$ million 1/  USDRmiHlionlL    Percentage
I Grants to Small Libraries         2.49           1.96           100%
2 Goods                             0.10           0.08            80%
3 Technical Asistants               0.54           0.53            80%
4 Training                          0.50           0.35            80%
5 Project Management                0.52           0.35            80%
Total Credit        4.15           3.27
11 Excluding expenditures for honoraria of trainers (training) and honoraria
for project management staff (project management) which should be fully
financed from the GOI counterpart funds.
Financial Management Assessment
Assessment of the financial management capability and control environment were conducted by the Bank
FMO at the National Library at Jakarta, the Provincial Office of National Library at South Sumatera,
District Library of Muara Enim and two community libraries at the respected district. The assessment
found certain issues and weaknesses and therefore an action plan was agreed to strengthen the financial
management capacity (Attachment 64). The objective of the action plan is to ensure that the project will
have a sound financial management system when the project becomes effective.
Following are the financial management risks to be addressed in the project:
1. Risk due to the lack of capacity and understanding on roles and duties of the project management staff is
address by (i) adoption of a Project Management Manual (PMM) covering the procedures to be followed in
the project; (ii) training on procurement and financial management for the relevant staff within the CPMU,
PPIUs and District Libraries (DLs).
2. Risk of misunderstanding on the role of community and school librarian on their participation in the
implementation of the grant provided under project. The risk is addressed by (i) adoption of a Library
Grant Manual (LGM) covering procedures for the selection of school and community libraries,
establishment of SLT and CLT in eligible libraries, flow of grant funds, procurement and uses of grants,
book-keeping and reporting procedures to be followed by the participating libraries; (ii) training on the
LGM to participating libraries
Financial Management Arrangements
Accounting system and procedures: The accounting system and procedures will follow the government
accounting system. The specific accounting procedures for the project will be provided in the PMM. Each
PPIU shall maintain separate sub-project accounts and CPMU shall consolidate them for preparation of the
project account.
Project Management Manual (PMM). The PMM will document the system and procedures to be followed
- 32 -



by CPMU, PPIUs and the DLs (including consultants) to ensure their understandings and roles in the
project. This should help to ensure a sound financial management practice in the project. The PMM shall
set out internal control, organization structure and job description, budgeting, procurement, disbursement,
accounting, reporting, auditing arrangements. The draft version of PMM is to be provided at negotiation
and thefinal PMM shall be issuedprior to the loan effectiveness.
Library Grant Operation Manual (LGOM). The LGM will document the system and procedures to be
followed by SLT and CLT, DLs, PPIUs and CPMU. The LGM shall describe the mechanism of the
selection and provision of library grants, including the selection of school and community libraries,
establishment of SLT and CLT in eligible libraries, preparation of grant proposal, flow of grant funds,
procurement and uses of grants, book-keeping and reporting procedures to be followed by the participating
libraries. The draft version of LGOMis to be provided at negotiation and thefinal LGOMshall be
issued prior to the loan effectiveness.
Book keeping at the small libraries: The SLT and CLT, formed in the school libraries and community
libraries, shall be responsible for uses of the grants and maintain the accounts following the book-keeping
format to be provided in the Library Grant Manual. Progress Report of the participating library shall be
put in the library's announcement board to enable the readers community to exercise controls.
Project Management Report (PMR): On a monthly basis, each SLT and CLT shall submit a progress
report to the DL. DL shall also prepare a monthly report for of its activities and compile it with the
progress reports received from participating libraries into a district PMR. The district PMR should be
forwarded to the PPIU, one week after end of the month. PPIU shall prepare a quarterly report for of its
activities and compile it with the district PMRs received from DLs into a province PMR for submission to
the CPMU, two weeks after the end of the quarter. The CPMU would then prepare the overall consolidated
PMR for the project for submission to the Head of the National Library and the Bank, no later than one
month after the end of the quarter. The format of the PMR, which cover financial management report,
project progress report and procurement management report, have been discussed and agreed during the
appraisal. The format will cover financial report, project progress report and procurement management
report. It is anticipated that the project may not be able to produce satisfactory PMR immediately after
effectiveness, but after two or three quarters.
Disbursement Arrangements
The CPMU and PPIUs will be responsible for procurement and authorizations of expenditures under their
components. DLs shall be responsible for the purchases of their books and other reading materials and
making the arrangements for training of the small libraries, of which advances would be provided by the
PPIU to the DLs. All payments to meet the project expenditures would be channeled through the relevant
Treasury Offices (KPKN), against request for payments made by the CPMU or PPIUs.
Immediately after the credit effectiveness, DG Budget shall issue a circular letter to the relevant KPKN
Offices providing guidelines and criteria for eligible project expenditures in accordance with the Credit
Agreement, including the expenditure arrangement for participating libraries.
Special Account. Government of Indonesia will establish a US dollars Special Account (SA) at the Bank
Indonesia, under the name of Directorate General of Budget with an authorized ceiling at $500,000. The
SA deposit initially will be limited to $250,000 until total disbursement reached $1 million. The SA's
management is essentially under the responsibility of CPMU, who prepare the request for replenishment of
SA as required. The replenishment of the Special Account may be based on quarterly PMR only after the
- 33 -



production of PMR satisfactory to the Bank, otherwise traditional SOE and full documentation
disbursement will be used.
Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOE). Given to the small nature of the expenditures, disbursements will
be made against statement of expenditures (SOEs) for library grants, training, goods, project management
and individual consultants contract valued below $50,000 equivalent each. Documentation for
expenditures under the grants will be retained at the participating libraries, and documentation for
expenditures under the PPIUs and CPMU would be retained at their respective offices. These documents
would be made available to auditors during the annual audit, and to the Bank upon request during the
supervision mission. Other items would be disbursed with full documentation.
Flow of Funds: The CPMU project manager will responsible for authorizing expenditures under the CPMU
components in accordance with the agreed budgets under existing government procedures. Whereas, the
PPIU's sub-project manager shall be responsible for their components, including the library grants and the
relevant project expenditures to be carried out by the DLs. When expenditures are due for payment, they
will submit payment requests to the relevant Treasury Office (KPKN) who will issue payment remittance
order (SPM) to Bank Indonesia to credit the payee's accounts at the latter's respective banks and to debit
the project Special Account for the Bank's portion.
The project, through PPIUs will provide library grants to small libraries, to be released in five trenches in
five semesters. The grants will be channeled through the relevant Treasury Offices (KPKN) who shall
make payments upon PPIU's request. The PPIU and the participating libraries shall sign a library grant
agreement which will also stipulates the term and conditions of the uses of the grants, in addition to those
already provided in details in the LGM. The small libraries will open an account in local bank, into which
the grant trenches will be transfer as the conditions met. The flow of fund in summary provided in
Attachment 6-6.
Auditing Arrangements
The project audits: The quarterly PMR shall be the basis for preparing the annual project accounts. The
fourth quarter PMR would be the annual project account As for other government projects, audits shall be
carried by the government auditors. The annual audit of the project accounts, including SOE and special
account, shall be furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the government fiscal year.
Prior to negotiation, the CPMU has requested the auditor to audit the project in accordance with Terms of
Reference for the audit of special purpose financial statement (as in Attachment 6-5) and Audit Manual
for World Bank financed project (EAP, July 1998). The auditor will also audit, due process and due
diligence, on the use of the library grants by community or school libraries and assess the attainment of
objectives according to the agreed performance indicators.
In the efforts to improve transparency in the project, it was agreed during appraisal for the CPMU to send
copies of the annual audit reports to a selected mass-media. The CPMU would provide the Bank of the
selected list of mass-media and other organizations into which copies of the audit reports would be sent to.
- 34 -



ATTACHMENT 6-1
Terms of References of the Project Management
and Procurement-and Financial Management Consultants
The CPMU will hire a Project Management Consultant (individual) and a Procurement-Financial
Management Consultant (individual). Each PPIU will hire a Project Management Consultant (individual).
CPMU Consultants
A. Project Management Consultant
1.    Qualifications and Experience
a.   A graduate in either of the following: Engineering, Economics, Finance or similar advanced degree
from recognized university;
b.   At least 10 years of experience in project management of which about 5 years should be in a
managementposition held in an international or national public or private sector organization,
preferably in a developing country;
c.   Experience with the World Bank funded Projects would be an advantage;
d.   Good writing and computer skills; and
e.   Fluent in English (speaking and writing)
2.    Reporting and Counterparts
The Project Management Consultant will report to CPMU Project Manager.
3.    Responsibilities
Together with the CPMU Project Manager, the Consultant will manage the whole operations and
implementation of the project and ensure that there is a transfer of expertise to CPMU over the course of
the project. The consultant will be expected to ensure high quality, transparency, problem solving of
project management issues and facilitating smooth and speedy implementation of the program. In addition,
the consultant will ensure overall integration of plans and reports of all programs of the project.
More specifically, the Project Management Consultant will:
a.   Prepare detailed overall planning for the implementation of the project.
b.   Assist the CPMU to supervise and monitor the programs.
c.   Together with CPMU Project Manager, define policies and plans and problem solving on day-to-day
basis.
d.   Ensure that information flows smoothly and promptly from and to the field and the CPMU.
e.   Evaluate whether the project objectives are being achieved.
f.   Coordinate with other consultants and the CPMU to finalize project manuals and guidelines (Buku
Pedoman) which explain basic criteria for library selection, project requirement, budget and funding
mechanism, administrative requirement, tasks and duties of people concerned.
g.   In coordination with Library Training Consultant (the communication expert) and CPMU, design
informative booklets giving details of the project.
h.   Assist with organization of information dissemination activities and design infornative booklets
giving details of the programs.
- 35 -



i.    Assist organization of review workshops.
j.    Responsible for overseeing the work of the province level consultants, and reporting on progress
regularly.
k.   Work closely with CPMU staff responsible for each activity.
1.   Keep the CPMU well informed at all times of project activities at all level.
m.   Assist the World Bank supervision and/or review mission.
n.   Assist the Project Director and CPMU to ensure that project covenants (among other, annual plans
and reports) are fulfilled and the World Bank supervision aide memoires are followed up timely).
O.   Assist the Project Management to effectively control the project organization, among others, provide
inputs about project staff perforrnance.
4. Reports
The consultant shall: (i) prepare quarterly progress reports for the Project Manager; and (ii) assist the
Project Manager to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports for the Bank.
B. Procurement-Financial Management Consultant
i.    Qualifications and Experience
a.   A graduate in either of the following: Engineering, Economics, Finance or similar advanced degree
from a recognized university.
b.   At least 5 years of experience in Procurement and Financial Management.
c.   Experience with the World Bank funded Projects would be an advantage.
d.   Good computing skills.
e.   Fluency in English (reading and writing).
2.     Reporting and Counterparts
The Procurement-Financial Management Consultant reports directly to the CPMU Project Manager.
Moreover, she/he may have a government counterpart, assigned by the CPMU Project Manager.
3.    Responsibilities
The consultant will manage both procurement program and financial management for the Project, provide
to others the needed technical support and guidance in all aspects of procurement in accordance with the
Project Guidelines as described in the Project documents and Loan Agreement.
The Consultant will be expected to ensure quality, transparency, problem solving of procurement and
financial management issues, and facilitating smooth and speedy implementation of the program. In
addition, the Consultant will coordinate with the PPIU Project Management Consultants and treasurers to
ensure overall integration of plans and reports.
More specifically, the Procurement-Financial Management consultant shall fulfill the following tasks:
On Procurement Management:
a.   Update the procurement plan on regular basis and implementation of the procurement plans for
grants, goods and consultants agreed with the Bank;
- 36 -



b.   Work with the technical specialist to review and update the procurement schedules;
c.   Ensure compliance with the World Bank Guidelines that apply to the Project;
d.   Assist the CPMU Project Manager in ensuring that procurement arrangements are consistent with
project implementation and development objectives and, as needed, discuss options and possible
solutions with the CPMU Project Manager;
e.   Prepare the Request for Proposals, Request for Quotations (including specifications and evaluation
criteria) and processing of evaluations;
f.   Prepare the procurement documents required to obtain clearance from the World Bank for awarding
of contracts and follow-up actions;
g.   Prepare the contracts with selected suppliers/consultants, including follow up for delivery of
goods/services according to schedule;
h.   Organize the receipt of goods at entry, customs clearance, and delivery to the final destination;
i.    Maintain records of goods received, their quality and quantity, compliance with contract
specifications and accounts for actual deliveries;
j.   In coordination with the CPMU/PPIU Project Managers handle warranty and insurance claims;
k.   Maintain a proper filing system for all relevant procurement documents in the Project and prepare
needed reports and documents for the World Bank review missions;
1.    Coordinate with the CPMU/PPIU Financial Officer on contractual payments;
m.   Train other parties concerned with procurement, such as: auditing agencies/units, other members of
tender board (if any);
n.   Carry out other procurement related tasks assigned by the CPMUJ Project Manager.
On Financial Managzement
a.   Responsible for all financial management and accounting functions and activities;
b.   Interact effectively (including working level interaction) with agencies of the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) including National Libraries (in the central, province and district level) and
Ministry of Finance, community and school libraries and other stakeholders of financial matters;
c.   Develop and assisted the implementation of financial management and accounting policies and
procedures for the project consistent with World Bank and government requirements;
d.   Ensure adherence to financial management and accounting policies and procedures for the project;
e.   Prepare budgets and financial projection/forecasts for the project activities, including short term
forecasting. Assist other staff with preparation of annual work programs and budgets;
f.   Ensure that an effective system of internal controls is operational;
g.   Ensure timely preparation and distribution of Project Management Reports (PMRs) and financial
statements coordinating with the procurement officer, treasurer and project manager;
h.   Interact effectively with auditors to ensure effective annual audits in accordance with World Bank
requirements;
i.   Ensure that supervision (internal audit) system is working satisfactorily;
j.   Follow-up to issues arising out of the supervision (internal audit) system;
k.   Coordinating with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to ensure timeliness of information required for
preparation of Withdrawal Application from the MOF for the project and for submission of
appropriate requests to the World Bank to ensure timely flow of funds to the project;
1.   Ensure timely and smooth information and transaction flow on finance and accounting aspects of the
project at all levels;
m.   Interact effectively with GOI counterpart who engage to work on financial and accounting aspects of
the project.
- 37 -



4. Reports
The consultant shall prepare a quarterly progress report (physical and financial) and assist the CPMU
Project Manager in the compilation of the Project Progress Report (Quarterly).
PPIU Consultants
Project Management Consultant
1.    Qualifications and Experience
A graduate in either of the following: Engineering, Economics, Finance or similar advanced degree from a
recognized university
At least 10 years of experience in project management of which about 5 years should be in a management
position held in an international or national public or private sector organization, preferably in a developing
country.
Experience with the World Bank funded Projects would be an advantage
Good computing skills.
Fluency in English (speaking and writing)
2.     Reporting and Counterparts
The Project Management Consultant will report to the PPIU Project Manager.
3.    Responsibilities
Together with the PPIU Project Manager, the Consultant will manage the whole operations and
implementation of the project and ensure that there is a transfer of expertise to PPIU over the course of the
project. The consultant will be expected to ensure high quality, transparency, problem solving of project
management issues and facilitating smooth and speedy implementation of the program. In addition, the
consultant will ensure overall integration of plans and reports of all programs of the project.
More specifically, the Project Management Consultant at PPIU will:
a.   Prepare detailed overall planning for the implementation of the project
b.   Assist the PPIU to supervise and monitor the programs
c.   Together with PPIU Project Manager, define policies and plans and problem solving on day-to-day
basis.
d.   Ensure that information flows smoothly and promptly from and to the field and the PPIU
e.   Evaluate whether the project objectives are being achieved.
f.    Assist implementation of Project Management Training for project management staff, Project
Orientation/Library Grant Manual Training for beneficiary libraries
g.   Assist with organization of information dissemination activities
h.   Assist organization of review workshops
i.   Responsible for overseeing the procurement activities and financial management reports
j.    Work closely with PPIU staff responsible for each activity
k.   Keep thee PPIU well informed at all times of project activities at all level
- 38 -



1.    Assist the World Bank supervision and/or review mission.
m.   Assist the PPIU Project Manager to ensure that project covenants (among other, annual plans and
reports) are fulfilled and the World Bank supervision aide memoires are followed up timely.
4. Reports
The consultant shall: (i) prepare quarterly progress reports for the Project Manager; and (ii) assist the
Project Manager to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports for the Bank.
- 39 -



ATTACHMENT 6-2
Positive List
The Grants MAY BE used as follows:
*   At least 60% of each grant shall be used for:
*   Purchase and delivery of books (maximum 3 exemplar per title)
*   Purchase and delivery of reference books for teachers (maximum I exemplar per title)
* Subscription to journals, newspapers and magazines
Not More than 40% of each grant shall be used for:
*   Purchase of library materials such as office supplies, book repair materials, typewriter, tape recorder
and tapes, display/announcement board, posters, etc.
* Purchase or construction of library furniture (bookshelves, tables, chairs, carpets)
*   Minor renovation and decoration of the library room (not more than 20% of the initial grant)
*   Transport allowance for the librarians (not more than 5% of the grant)
*   Regular reading promotion activities, including writing and story telling competitions, quizzes and
other relevant activities (not more than Rp. 500,000 every six month)
The Grants MAY NOT BE used for:
*   Payment of honoraria to civil servants
*   Major construction of library facilities
*   Cost of extending library
*   Maintain funds in the bank account for purpose of collecting interest
a   Any purpose other than specified above
- 40 -



ATTACHMENT 6-3
Terms of Reference and
Qualification Requirements
Of the Trainers and Consultants
1. Library Training Consultants
The project will hire five library training consultants to be based in Jakarta and to implement training
activities in Jakarta and in the project districts. They will work for total 16 months (6 in 2001, 4 in 2002, 4
in 2003 and 2 in 2004).
Qualiifcation and Experience
Four training consultants shall have the following qualifications:
*   A graduate in library, information and documentation science or similar advanced degree from a
recognized university
* At least 5 years of experience in the library management
* At least 10 years of experience in library training
* Able to write modules
e Good computing skills
i Good mastery of Bahasa Indonesia and English
One training consultant shall have the following qualifications:
i A graduate in comnmunication or sociology or similar advanced degree from a recognized university
3  At least 5 years of experience in working directly with community in subdistrict and village levels,
preferably in library-related activities
* At least 10 years of experience as trainer
 Able to write modules
* Good computing skills
* Good mastery of Bahasa Indonesia and English
v Has great communication skills
Reporting and Counterparts
The training consultants tean will up with government (CPMU) staff assigned by the Project Manager.
They will report directly to the Project Director.
Responsibilities
The training consultant team will be responsible for the quality and implementation of library training
activities for the participating district, school and community librarians.
The team will also be responsible to prepare a good quality of the trainers Selected central, provincial and
district librarians, in order for them to become effective trainers and facilitators for school and community
library staff.
More specifically, they will:
* Prepare library training plan
* Prepare training curricula and syllabi and write modules for the training of trainers (TOT), district
librarians, and community librarians.
- 41 -



*   Train the trainers and district librarians
*   Supervise the delivery of training for school and community librarians by the trainers (TOT graduates)
*   Write a comprehensive report.
Note: In addition, the Communication Training Consultant will assist the CPMU and Project Management
consultant in designing project information booklets.
Contract Awards and Terms ofPayment
The consultants will be hired individually. Each of them will be awarded a lumpsum contract for total 16
months (6 in 2001, 4 in 2002, 4 in 2003 and 2 in 2004).
2. Innovative Approach to Promoting Reading Habits and
Community Participation
PPIU of each participating province will select 10 school and 5 community libraries to receive additional
technical assistance, i.e., innovative approach to promoting reading habits and community participation in
library development. Each PPIU will hire a consultant for two consecutive years, 2002 and 2003.
Responsibilities
The consultant, in cooperation with the local librarian and school/ community committee, will be
responsible for the creation and implementation of innovative approaches to promote reading habits and
community participation in library development. They will be required to analyze the applicability of the
approaches for possible adoption by other libraries.
More specifically, they will:
3   Formulate and introduce innovative approaches to promote reading habits among the community in the
participating school and community libraries' areas.
e   Formulate and introduce innovative approach to promote community participation (local authorities,
community figures, private institutions, etc.).
3   Test and apply such innovative approaches in the selected libraries and closely monitor the result
*   Train the local librarian and school/ community committee to maintain the successful approach
*  Write a comprehensive report and prepare recommendations for possible adoption by other libraries.
Reporting
The consultant will provide to PPIU bimonthly report, Mid-Terrn Report and Final Report (including
evaluation and recommendation)
Qualification and Experience
The consultant shall have the following qualifications:
*  At least 3 years of experience in working with village level community in the library/ education/
extension (penyuluhan) related activities.
*   Have good networking with private organization, charity foundations, and local government
*  Willing to work closely with participating school and community libraries.
*  Have key staff with great communication skills.
Contract Awards and Terms of Payment
The consultant will be awarded a lumpsum contract for total 16 months (6 months in FY 2002 and 10
months in FY 2003)
- 42 -



3. Community Facilitators
In each district, four to five facilitators will be recruited. Each facilitator will make total 42 to 52 library
visits per year, including attending library cluster meeting, when she/he is requested.
Qualification and Experience
*   Minimun DII education in any subject.
*   Strong interest in working with cornmunity, experience in library-related activities is an advantage
*   Good communication skills
*   Mastery of Bahasa Indonesia
*   Local resident, does not have any plan to move to other area during the project implementation.
Reporting and Counterparts
The community facilitators will work under coordination of and report to the PPIU Management
Consultant.
Responsibilities
Community facilitators will provide ongoing monitoring and feedback at the grassroots level, and providing
on-site assistance where required. The PPIU Project Management Consultant and PPIU Project Manager
will follow up their reports and findings.
More specifically, they will:
*   Verify the data (as written in the grant application/questioners) of library grant candidate recipients
which were identified by the District Committee;
*   Process the verified data and forward it to PPIU Project Manager.
O   Assist the school and community library team in understanding and implementing the Library Grant
Manual.
MOU and Terms of Payment
The community facilitators will work voluntarily. Travel allowances (for transport and food) will be
provided per trip.
4. Library Promotion Activities
In addition to providing books to the school and community libraries, the project will also provide funds for
libraries to bring in local resource person to lead promotion activities. These activities can include story
telling/ writing, poetry reading/ writing, play and drawing competition.
Qualification:
The resource person is expected to:
- be locally well-known for his! her expertise/ skill (story telling, poetry reading, drawing, etc.)
- have a good conmmunication skill and can interact with the audience
- be able to create interactive activity using the library collection
Responsibilities
The resource person will present his/ her expertise/ skills (story telling, poetry reading, drawing, etc.) as
requested by the Library Team/ Community at an agreed schedule.
-43 -



Terms of Payment
Payment are made per-activity.
Library manager should try to get feedback from the library users on their opinion of the activity - which
will be used as a basis for developing the program promotion activities.
- 44 -



Attachment 64
Action Plan
At Appraisal/Preparation
Issues/ Problems        Remedial Action       Resp. Member          Due Date
A. Project Organization
and Staffing
Establishment and         Decrees on             GOI                 By
appointment of CPMU and   establishment and                          Negotiation
PPIU                      appointment of CPMU
and PPIU
B. Project Management
Manual
A Manual to document      Draft Project          GOI & WB            By Negotiation
procedures to be followed    Management Manual
by CMU, PMU. covering    acceptable to the Bank.
job description,
procurement, financial
management, record
management, fixed assets
and inventory management,
bookkeeping, reporting,
monitoring, evaluation
mechanism for the FM
system.
Issuance of the Pr,eject  GOI             By
ManaRement Manual                         Effectiveness
C. Library Grant Manual
(LG Manual)
A manual to document      Draft Library Grant    GOI & WB            By Negotiation
procedures of community    Manual acceptable to
and school Grants to be   the Bank.
followed by community and
school libraries, district
library staff and PMU
covering organizations,
roles and responsibilities,
proposal processing,
funding mechanisms,
procurement, book-keeping,
and reporting requirement.           _
Issuance of the final    GOI              By
Library Grant Manual                      Effectiveness
D. Training
1. Training by which      Project Management   GOI                   Immediately after
government staff within the  Manual training                         effectiveness
CMU and PMU (including
everybody who will be
involve in this project) will
acquire the necessary skills
to carry out their respective
duties as described in the
Project Management
Manual.
-45 -



Issues/ Problems        Remedial Action      Resp. Member         Due Date
2. Training by which     Training plan for     GOI                By Negotiation
community and school     community and school
librarian staff, district  librarian staff, district
library staff and PMU will  library staff and PPIU
acquire the necessary skills  on LG Manual
to carry out their respective
duties as described in the
LG Manual
Training              GOI                Immediately after
effectiveness
E. Auditing
Arrangement of the project  Draft audit        GOI & WB           By Appraisal
audit in accordance with a   arrangements and TOR
specific TOR for audit   discussed and agreed
Letter to Auditor     GOI                By Negotiation
(agreed during
appraisal) confirming
the audit arrangements
F. PMR Evaluation
Evaluation on the        Review on FM system   GOI &              Periodically - limit
implementation of FM     and quarterly PMR     WB (TTL/           Jun/ Dec. 2002
System in CPMU and       within 30 days after the FMO)
PPIUs including re-      quarter end submitted
evaluation on potential for  to the Bank
PMR-based disbursements.                                .
-46 -



Attachment 6-S5
TERMS OF REFERENCE
for the Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statements
Objectives
The overall objectives of the audit are: (i) to enable the auditor to express a professional opinion
on the project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management system including
internal controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (ii) to provide project management with
timely information on financial aspects of the project to enable follow-up action; and (iii) to assess on
the achievements of project objectives as measured by performance indicators.
The audit should cover the entire project, i.e. covering all sources and application of funds by all
implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and other agencies as
considered necessary for the audit.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and with the
Audit Manual for World Bank Financed projects (July 1998). It will include such tests and controls as
the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. Specific areas of coverage of the audit will
include the following:
(1) An assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
consistently applied Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and give a true and fair view
of the operations of the project during the year and the financial position of the project at the close of
the fiscal year. Any material deviations from GAAP, and the impact of such departures on the project
financial statements as presented would be stated
(2) An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems , including internal
controls. This would include aspects such as adequacy and effectiveness of accounting, financial and
operational controls, and any needs for revision; level of compliance with established policies, plans
and procedures; reliability of accounting systems, data and financial reports; methods of remedying
weak controls or creating them where there are none; verification of assets and liabilities; and integrity,
controls, security and effectiveness of the operation of the computerized system (if any), and
(3) An assessment of compliance with provisions of financing agreements, especially those relating to
accounting and financial matters. This would inter alia include verification that:
(a) all external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which
the financing was provided.
(b) counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes of which
they were provided;
(c) expenditures charged to the project are eligible expenditures and have been correctly
classified in accordance with the relevant financing agreement;
- 47 -



(d) goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing
agreement;
(e) all necessary supporting documents, records, and account have been kept in respect of all
project activities
(i) clear linkages exist between the accounting records including accounts books and the Project
Financial Statements;
(g) where Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the relevant financing agreement.
(h) statement of expenditures (SOE) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal
applications accurately reflect expenditures and activities on the project
(i) project expenditures as reported by the project implementation agencies are reconciled with
the amounts withdrawn from the Special Account and the amounts deposited to the special
account are reconciled with the amounts disbursed from the IDA Credit.
(4) An assessment on the achievements of the planned results of the projects as measured by the
performance indicators as stipulated in the relevant financing agreement.
Project Financial Statements.
Each PPIUs shall prepared its project accounts whereas the consolidated project accounts shall be
prepared by the CPMU, and should include (i) Annual Project Expenditures and Financing; and (ii)
Cumulative Project Expenditures and Financing. Sources of funds would show IDA, other donors, and
GOI counterpart funds separately. Project expenditures would be summarized by main project
components, disbursement categories and by project location (province or kabupaten) both consolidated
for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date. The consolidated project account shall also include
Financial Statement of Special Account covering: (i) deposits and replenishments received from the
Association; (ii) withdrawals from the special account; and (iii) the remaining balances at the end of the
fiscal year
The auditor should provide an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Association's
procedures and the exactitude of the balance of the Special Account at year-end. The audit should
examine the eligibility and integrity of financial transactions during the period under review and fund
balances at the end of the period, the operation and use of the special account in accordance with the
financing agreement, and the adequacy of internal financial controls.
Special Account: The auditor must assess a reconciliation report between the project
expenditures made from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account.
Reconciliation should also be made with the amounts paid from the pre-financing account and direct
payments (if any). The auditor should assess a reconciliation report between the amounts deposited to
the special account and disbursed by the Association to the special account.
- 48 -



Statement of Expenditures: The auditor is also required to audit all SOEs (paid from the
special account and/or other accounts) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications.
The auditor should apply such tests and control as the auditor consider necessary under the
circumstances. These expenditures should be carefully compared for project eligibility with the
relevant financing agreements, and with reference to the Project Appraisal Document for guidance
when considered necessary. Ineligible expenditures identified as having been included in withdrawal
applications and reimbursed by the Association should be noted separately by the auditor. The total
withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be part of the overall reconciliation of Association
disbursements described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project financial
statements, including an opinion on the Special Account and a separate paragraph commenting on the
accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under the SOE procedures and the extent to which
the Association can rely on SOEs as a basis for loan disbursement. The report should refer to the
auditor's TOR. The auditor should submit the report to the project executing agency who should then
promptly forward one copy of the audited accounts and report to the Association. It should be received
by the Association no later than six months after the end of the project's fiscal year.
Management Letter
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which the
auditor will:
(a) give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were
examined during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in
systems and controls and make recommendation for their improvement;
(b) give comments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of resources;
(c) report on the achievement of the planned results of the project
(d) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing agreement
and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such compliance;
(e) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a significant
impact on the implementation of the project, and
(f) any other matters that the auditors considers pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documnents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also
be obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Association.
The auditor should be familiar with the Association's Audit Manualfor World Bank Financed
Projects which provide guidance to auditors conducting audits of Association financed projects.
- 49 -



Attachment 6-6
Library Development Project
Flow of Funds
LIII
Central                                                                                           Auditor
. |                         ~~~~~~~~~audits
/                       ^           ~~~~~~~~~~~~aDD Jor replenishment_
v ~~~~~~~~~~counteT' Ian
Bank Indonesia __________copies
Headoffice            bank          DG BUDGET          bank        *       CPMU
Special Acct.          statement                        statement
Copies SPM
Debit to                                              Copies sup.docs
Special Account         Guidelines                    PM reports                      V
Auditor
Provinc  & District                                                                    aud
payment
Bank Indonesia  _           SPM      MOF Treasurv              request
Branch office                           KPKN
District Library
Grant Agreement
/ Progress Report
funds
transfer
Community/ School Bank Account  1         eithdraws   *     Community/ School Library
deposits
The financial management system would include methods and records established to identify, assemble, analyze, classify,
record and report on transactions and to maintain accountability for the related assets and liabilities.
- 50 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12                           20
First Bank mission (identification)             07/31/99                    07/31/99
Appraisal mission departure                     05/01/2000                   05/12/2000
Negotiations                                    07/30/2001                   05/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/09/2000                   08/12/2001
Prepared by:
Brigitte Duces and Susiana Iskandar
Preparation assistance:
NA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Kenlee Ray                        Librarian
Susiana Iskandar                  Operations Officer (Education)
Jerry Strudwick                   Education Specialist
Dorothy Judkins                   Cost tables
Novira Asra                       Financial management
Rizal Rivai                       Procurement
Anthony Toft                      Legal Counsel
Rosfita Roesli                    Operations Officer (Education)
Melanie Yuwono                    Cost tables
Yogana Prasta                     Senior Didsbursement Officer
Naseer Ahmad Rana                 Senior Procurement Specialist
- 51 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
I. Project Implementation Plan*
2. Project Costab file*
3. Project Management Manual*
4. Library Grant Manual*
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Asra, K. Novira (2001), Financial Management CapacityAssessment Report, the World Bank, Jakarta
Rivai, Rizal (2001), Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, the World Bank, Jakarta
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 52 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mar-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P049545        2000 ID-PROVINCIAL HEALTH I                              0.00     3800                   0.00       0.00      35.89       1.21       0.00
P059477        2000 ID-WSSLIC II                                        0.00     77.40                  0.00       0.00      75.66       0.00       0.00
P059930        2000 DECENT AGR/FOR EXT                                 13.00      5.00                  0.00       0.00      16.87       2.93       0.00
P055821        1999 IND-URBAN POVERTY PROJECT                           0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00      41.96       5.29       0.00
P056074        1999 IND-MUNCIPAL INNOVATIONS PROJECT                    5.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00       3.22       2.23       0.00
P041895        1999 ID-SULAWESI BASIC EDUC.                            47.90     15.93                  0.00       0.00      55.24      18.41       0.00
P003967        1999 ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                            44.70      0.00                  0.00       5.00      32.07      11.72       0.00
P064118        1999 WATSAL                                            300.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     250.00     250.00       0.00
P063732        1999 CORPORATE RESTRUCTRG                               31.50      0.00                  0.00       6.12      20.03      26.15       0.00
P040196        1999 ID-SUMATRA BASIC EDUC                              54.50     20.10                  0.00       0.00      58.11      10.73       0.00
P036049        1999 ID-EARLYCHILD DEVELOPMENT                          21.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00      19.89      14.36      14.36
P040061        1998 BENGKULU REG DEV                                   20.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00      19.14       7.14       0.00
P048715        1998 IIDP                                               34.50      0.00                  0.00       8.50      20.31      22.17      17.31
P045337        1998 ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND                             225.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     157.58      56.94       0.00
P040062        1998 CORAL REEF MGMT REHA                                0.00      0.00                  4.10       0.00       2.57       1.65       1.35
P036956        1998 ID-SAFE MOTHERHOOD                                 42.50      0.00                  0.00       8.00      20.67      10.01       6.59
P003993        1998 SUMATRA REG. ROADS                                234.00      0.00                  0.00      50.00     157.77      28.77      -3.03
P039644        1998 ID-W. JAVA BASIC EDUC.                            103.50      0.00                  0.00       3.76      60.01     -20.06       0.00
P055755        1998 BANKING REFORM ASST.                               20.00      0.00                  0.00       0.90       6.42       7.32       0.00
P036046        1998 CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                                6.90      0.00                  4.10       0.00       4.38       3.72       3.12
P036053        1997 IND-SULAWESI UDP II                               155.00      0.00                  0.00      67.05      29.47      87.35     -14.08
P004026        1997 RLWY EFFICIENCY                                   105.00      0.00                  0.00      20.00      79.47      77.81       0.00
P036047        1997 IND-BALI URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT             110.00      0.00                  0.00      30.06      60.68      27.74      15.12
P040195       1997 ID-QUALITY OF UNDERGRADUATE EDUC (QUE)              71.20      0.00                  0.00       9.89      34.31      13.59       4.29
P003700        1997 SOLAR HOMES SYSTEMS                                 0.00      0.00                 24.30       0.00      19.27      13.65       3.45
P003987        1997 ID-CENTRAL INDONESIA SEC. EDU.                    104.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      63.73      42.93       0.00
P049051        1997 BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P                               16.40      0.00                  0.00       0.90      10.58       8.60       6.64
P042540        1997 ID-IODINE DEF. CONTROL                             28.50      0.00                  0.00       9.00      11.31      11.15      10.35
P041894        1997 ID-SUMATRASECEDUC                                  98.0o      0.00                  0.00       0.03      37.45       0.15       0.00
P037097        1996 ID-E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                                99.00      0.00                  0.00       3.63      50.30      26.73       0.00
P039312        1996 IND-EASTJAVAUDPII                                 117.00      0.00                  0.00      53.00      17.79      70.79       9.41
P003978        1996 INO'LTECHNOLOGYDEV                                 47.00      0.00                  0.00       8.54       9.21      17.71      11.73
P003699        1996 KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                                 0.00      0.00                 15.00       0.00       9.85       4.57       0.00
P004003        1996 ID-SECONDARY SCHOOLTEACHER DEVT                    60.40      0.00                  0.00      30.00       2.73      32.13      -0.60
P004004        1996 ID-HIGHER EDUC SUP.(DUE)                           65.00      0.00                  0.00       6.86       7.72      -5.43      -8.92
P004008        1996 NUSATENGGARA DEV.                                  27.00      0.00                  0.00       4.90       6.84       6.71      -1.01
P004021        1996 POW.TRANS&DISTII                                  373.00      0.00                  0.00     110.00      74.87     184.87      18.24
P004016        1996 STRATEGIC URB. RDS I                               86.90      0.00                  0.00      10.00      24.83      28.33       5.62
P004011        1996 SULAWESI AGRI AREA                                 26.80      0.00                  0.00       3.70       6.53       2.17      -3.58
P004014        1996 KERINCISEBLATICDP                                  19.10      0.00                 15.00       3.00      11.94      10.47       0.00
P003965        1995 ID-HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT                            88.00      0.00                  0.00      39.00        1.61     34.77      10.61
P003951        1995 IND-KALIMANTAN UDP                                136.00      0.00                  0.00      15.00      20.10      35.10      11.10
P039754        1995 IND-TAP41-2                                        28.00      0.00                  0.00       3.00      10.98      13.98       5.12
P003968        1995 ID-BOOK & READING DEV                             132.50      0.00                  0.00      36.50      42.90      73.06      37 88
P003972        1995 AG. RESEARCH II                                    63.00      0.00                  0.00      22.10      15.28      35.38       4.33
P003984        1995 LAND ADMINISTRATION                                80.00      0.00                  0.00      33.90       0.25      34.15      17.65
P003988        1995 ID-PHRD 11                                         69.00      0.00                  0.00      12.00       9.77      20.11      11.94
P004001        1995 TELECOM SECTOR MODER                              325.00      0.00                  0.00      69.67      96.38     166.05     116.05
P003890        1994 IND-SEMARANG SURAKARTA UDP                        174.00      0.00                  0.00      38.67      34.95      73.61      19.23
P003910        1994 SUMATERA & KALIMAN P                              260.50      0.00                  0.00      56.00      43.68      99.68      99.65
P003945        1994 HIGHWAY SECTOR II                                 350.00      0.00                  0.00      46.00      61.94     107.94      30.28
P003954        1994 JAVA IRR IMP & W R M                              165.70      0.00                  0.00      41.17       19.85     59.91      37.90
P004010        1994 DAM SAFETY                                         55.00      0.00                  0.00      19.80       4.26      24.06      -0.58
P034080        1994 BIODIVERSITY COLLECT                                0.00      0.00                  7.20       0.00       0.26       0.59       0.00
- 53 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millionsr                              and actual
Project ID    PY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                    GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003914       1993 ID-THIRD COMM HEALTH &                           93.50      0.00                 0.00      19.70       1.34     21.04       5.04
Total:    4B34.50     256.43              69.70       905.35    1990.20    1922.15    502.53
- 54 -



INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               PT Bank NISP                   5.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               PT Berlian                     9.29   20.00    0.00   27.09    8.15   16.65    0.00   23.57
1995               PT Bunas Finance               5.54    0.00    0.00     1.45    5.54    0.00     0.00    1.45
1996               PT Dharmala                   20.00    0.00    0.00    10.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1995               PT Grahawita                   0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1995               PT Hotel Santika               3.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.78    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991               PT Indaci                      0.00    0.00     1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.44    0.00
PT Indo-Rama                  22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/93/95/99   PT KIA Keramik                16.51    6.02    0.00   53.49   16.51    6.02    0.00   53.49
1992/94/96         PT KIA Serpih                 15.00    6.35    0.00   49.50    15.00    6.24    0.00   49.50
1995               PT Kalimantan                 20.00    15.00    0.00    6.00   15.56   15.00     0.00    4.67
1997               PT Makro                       0.00    1.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997/00            PT Megaplast                   8.75    2.50    0.00     0.00    8.75    2.50     0.00    0.00
1998               PTNusantara                    3.18    0.00    0.00    10.38    3.18    0.00     0.00   10.38
1993               PT PAMA                        0.00    0.71     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.71     0.00    0.00
1994               PT Pramindo Ikat              25.00    8.18   25.00    59.50   25.00    3.91    25.00   59.50
1996               PT RIMBA                       2.53    0.60    0.00    0.74    2.53    0.60      0.00    0.74
1991               PT Samudera                    0.00    5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00
1993               PT Sayap                      10.00    0.00    0.00    14.00   10.00    0.00    0.00   14.00
1997               PT Viscose                    23.59    0.00    0.00   29.46   23.59    0.00      0.00   29.46
1992/95            PT Wings                       8.68    0.00    0.00    14.92    8.68    0.00    0.00   14.92
1997               Prudential Asia                0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.24      0.00    0.00
1994               SEAVI Indonesia                0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43      0.00    0.00
1991               Semen Andalas                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1980/87            Ciluluk Village                0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               KDLC Bali                      2.08    1.14    0.00    0.00    2.08    1.14    0.00    0.00
1994               LYON-MLF-lbis                  2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01    2.01    0.00      0.00    2.01
1991               Manulife                       0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32      0.00    0.00
1988               POF                            5.14    1.93    0.00     6.00    5.14    1.93    0.00    6.00
1995               PT ABS Finance                 0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31      0.00    0.00
1995               PTAdeSAlfindo                 10.29    3.53    0.00    17.64   10.29    3.53     0.00   17.64
1997               PT Agro Muko                   0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20      0.00    0.00
1989               PT Alurnindo                  18.50    0.00    0.00    16.00   18.50    0.00     0.00   16.00
1997               PTArgoPantes                   9.38    13.00    0.00    11.36    9.38   13.00    0.00   11.36
1991               PT Astra                       0.00    5.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.82      0.00    0.00
1989/91/94         PT AstraGraphia                0.00    2.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1997               PT Astra Otopart               0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
1997               PTBBLDharmala                 11.35    0.00    0.00   21.40   11.35    0.00    0.00   21.40
1993/96            PT Bakrie Pipe                17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00   17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00
1995
Total Portfolio:       275.49   104.13   41.33   350.94   269.89   92.62   40.94  346.09
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               NISP Equity                       0.00      0.00   5000.00      0.00
2000               PT Petrosea                   15000.00   8200.00   1800.00      0.00
Total Pending Conmmitment:     15000.0  8200.00   6800 nO       o.oo
- 55 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDONESIA: LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Asti a      Low-
Indonesia    PacifIc   income        Development diamond*
1999
Pnnolaton mid-vyar (trlonql 7it7 (0                                I Ait7     2417                   Life expectancy
GNP tot caDita lAtl/s mothod. US$i                        SR0      1.000       410
rNP (Atlas method. USs btfion0s                         120 1      1 8g l      9Rg                         T
Averace annual orowth. 1993-99
Pnnlartion 1/)                                             I          1i        1 9|
Labor foire %Y)                                           2 7         1.3       2 3      GNP          <         '5          Gross
per                rprimary
Most, recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-991                                   capita             J /nrnllnn
Povertv Y of oooulation bolow national Dovetrlv linroi     20
i Irhan non afin,, /% oifofl 1010O0)fiotonl               3, S         4  14
Life exoectancv at birth fvears)                           65         69        60
intent rn,rtAlitv (oer 10G0 five tir7hsti                  43         36        77
C.hild rralnutrition 1% of (children tundor 51             34         77         43                 Access to safe water
Acces to inmoroved water so,rce 0% of,oooulationl          62         84         64
IlitPrayv t% of nomlaaion aao 15--                         14        1.S        3e
Gross ornmarv enrollment /% of scrhoo/-aoe DoDulationi    113        11t9       96                fflndonesia
Male                                                    11S        121       102                    Low-incomegroup
Fermale                                                 110        121        RC,
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     19f9       1998       1999                 -~ -                   -    -
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ Wlhioosi                              S6 1     101 5       96 8      1S1 7
Gr"oss dnmels8t invostmant/lrtp                 24 6     29 1       20 n       19 1 
Fvnnrts of rinodr arnd serviore/G3np           306       2 1            2       4t                        Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GOP                      32 8     32 A       29,4       21 0
Cnse natinnat qavinnqI r P                               23 i       24 4       13 S
Current account balance/GDP                               - 16       4 7        4,2                        t
InterAst navnpntsW/t.fP         t i                       3 .3         7        4                   R        Investlment
Tntal dihtGitrP                                 .t3 R    5A S      182 7       97r       Savings          '-
Total debt sorvicelexDorts                               37 5       34.7       37 9
Pres.nt va-  ol-  tfdhtitGnp                                       146i 4
Present value of dobt/exoorts                      .               2649
Indebtedness
1979.89  1989-99      199f       1999   1999.03
(average annual orowth)
G,n P                                            5 r1  S   R   -tn (n 9   3       4                    I  8ndonesia
GNP ner ranit.                        R39        3 4     -17 8       0 4        2 .6                   Low-income group
gixrorts of ooods and services         1 4       6 9     11.?      -31.6        7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
I% of GDPI
40 
Anricrlti,re                                    27 3     21 7       17 n       17          I
Industrv                                       37.7      38.3       42.7       431       2 ;
Manifact- rint 117                                      19.7       24 1      25.4      _2     =
Services                                       35.0      40.0       40.3       39.6    -20      94   s5    9       9    V7  
Private nc ntion                               57 fi    .SR S       fiS 1      72 .     -40
Genpral r,,vrnmpt rnnr c Mtinlion                9 S      A 7        si         f S     '           * --GD             GDP
Imoorts of anods and services                  22.6      21.4       41 7       26.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averace annual arowthl
Anricultuir. 34                                           2 5        -0 7       2 1     40
Industrv                                         6.5      7.2      -14.0        1.2     20
Manufar.trinn                                 13 .       82 7      11 4       2 f           - 
Servirc.e                                        7 n      4 7       -1R 4      -1 4             94   95   96   97    4         99
20
Private rnncirmninrn                            6 s       7 3        -fi 3      3 7     _40
General nnv.rnmpnt rcnsi,mrtinn                  . .3     n 8       -.1 4       0 7
Gross domestic investment                        6.7      3.9      -34 6      -20   
1inOrit nt noons and servir-e                    1 6      66        -S 3      -407 -4vpens 7mprts
Gross national oroduct                           5.9      5.1       -16.5       2 0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour kev indicators in the countrv (in bold\ comeraed with its income-arouo averaae If data are missina. the diamond will
hb inonmnlete
- 56 -



Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1979    1989        1998     1999      Inflation (#)
(% change)                                                                       100.
Consumer prices                               ..      6.4      58.5      20.5     75
Implicit GDP deflator                       33.6    10.0       81.2      12.8     0o
Govemment flnance                                                                 25
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                                ..    17.1      15.1      18.3            94   95   96   97   9b    9
Current budget balance                         ..    -3.9       0.5       2.8                  GDP deflator  '*CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -3.2      -1.5
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1908     1999      Export and Import lavels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  23,833    48,354   55,546    60,oo
Fuel                                         ..   9,340      7,424   10,256
Rubber                                       ..    952       1,420    1,229    40000
Manufactures                                 ..   7.669    23.322   26,281
Total imports (cif                            ..  19,624    33,778   35,945
Food                                        ..    521        1,284    1,787    20000
Fuel and energy                              ..   3,146      3,122    3.958
Capital goods                                .. 5,904        6,388    3,366        W 
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
ExDort once index (1995=100)                   ..     83
Imoort once index (1995=1001                  ..      87         ..        ..                  U Exports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mnit lonsl                            1979    1989        1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..  25,460    52,722   59,317
Imports of goods and services                                                                                 .9419.675    41.080   41,972-
Resource balance                              ..   5,785    11,662   17.345       4                              U ,
Net income                                     ..  -2.920    -8,066  -10,958      2
Net current transfers                         ..  -4,464      1.013       -99
Current account balance                        ..  -1,599     4,609    6,288
Financing items (net                          ..   1,847    -3,140   -2.836        .                                 99
Changes in net reserves                        ..   -248    -1,469   -3,452    .4
Memo:
Reserves includina oold lUSS millionsl         .. ).    26.169   31.221
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUSSI           623.1  1.770.1   10.013.6  7.405.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    CompositIon of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      18.624   59,402   150,875  147,435                       A: 11,578
IBRD                                      739    8,542    10,692    11,578             G:20,941          B:682
IDA                                       525      854        694      682
0:9,090
Total debt service                         3,065    9,833    18.967   23,225
IBRD                                        95    1,134     1,456    1,584                                     0:9,083
IDA                                         4        15        26       29
Composition of net resource ftlows
Official grants                            137     214        255
Official creditors                         555    2,935     2,696                                              E: 32,054
Private creditors                          99       80    -3,653         0
Foreign direct investment                 226      682       -356                  F: 64,007
Portfolio equity                             0      199       250
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                815    2,007     1,672    1,693      A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              229    1,258     1,212    1,506      B- IDA    D - Other mulblateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                        24     481        754      785      C - IMF                    G - Short-tem
Net flows                                 205      777        458      721
Interest payments                           76     667        728      845
Net transfers                              130     109       -270     -124.
Development Economics and EASPR                                                                                    8125/00
- 57 -






MYANM f                   OpIAt <,~', r~  Vl*^ 0                                             1                       ><                                      INDONESIA
Andaman   ~~~~  -~~ V~~~7~M                                                                      - ~LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Andamon                        Gulfo f        _-                                                                   .                                                                      PROJECT PROVINCES
Sea                       ! QIIOlU                                                                        '                                                                 -         MAIN ROADS
ThAI[ANDd
''   I-                                                                                        Su'  '  ' ; " '   ' ' ' ' '   "" ''  -  ' '   ,ib  ._,   - $   9  o    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
o                               > 'AILASaN-D,,                                                                                   x,    PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
Sea                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
...... ).      ' .n,, - >.9 qs - '.' ,9\x+? = PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
'3  <0'                                                    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  "    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~--~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'01                                     /              t                                                                    RIAU ARCIAPELAG   ,JAWA TIUR          25 SUDACJ IRSI TENGAH
NMs~~~~~~Irm                                                                                   '~~~~~~~~~" 3~0                         SIJMATERA BARAT  159A .RAA    2o~ SULAWESI SELATAN
c~~~~..         f           5 J~~~~~~~~AM.I   6 NUSATWG      AA ~    SULAWESI TNGR
0                              '~~~~~~~~SaBENGKULT                    131 NUSA TENGGAJLA uTIMU    28 MAWIW UTAPA
23 _7 SUMATERA SEaATAN   13  TIMOR                               29 MAW;,KO
"-_                                                                     ,,<        A       1,       S  ,,MPUNG          10 KALI N         ,,,,,,,, 20 'lAN JASALA3
./        "-v                                 /                  0 IBANKA          2] DTUN f  AMA NTENGA O   CR EA AJAY TAEN
.22BANTENG                                                                                                           KAUMANTAN SENATAN    3  lAN ,AYA TIMUAR
f59 9 9 h > ffAO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20                                                                                                          300 tM ;Crfnai ;
19    ALkI-pA                          u                     $Aml
"ffi^|4sSy|,<>tt>e|||tOr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                                   k. Sr P U SA    IA-->
/5                                                    20 afk&v PACIF!C  OCEAN I ,                                                    I                                    _          ,
Banda           K~~~~raurSe
o       0      400     6r0 Ia6r
1  *                                                                                          ,       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gulf of
o    ';     ;      M     0  A                                                                                                         Carpentorio
~5.
Th W"~. puk... Ly *M mp D.sip R,t" of T6 WwI lo.L
c                                             in.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t. boo.I-uA. ~,oosm&Waiom wdaO     lm-fi.o -bow
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wor~y.w-t                                                                                                          A USTR A LI A
WdP'E~O  t.9AM   flly 01t5Ef151 lly OBooltIBECII



