Report No. PID8783
Project Name                     Indonesia-Library Development (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       IDPE68949
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
Implementing Agency
Address THE NATIONAL LIBRARY
Address: Jl. Salemba Raya, Jakarta, Indonesia
Contact Person: Mr. Hernandono
Tel: 62-21-3101411
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 7, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 1, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 15, 2001 (RVP approval)
1. Country and Sector Background
Limited use of information in daily life. Increasingly, as daily life
becomes more complex, even in rural areas, reliance on traditional wisdom
and knowledge is insufficient. Knowledge of farming techniques, pest
control, birth control, disease prevention and cure, and marketing
information is now gathered from traditional sources and existing wisdom
by many people. To gain additional knowledge, however, and to move to
more advanced levels, people need to develop new habits of information
gathering, relying more heavily on printed materials, and on expert
sources of information, with skills that should include approaching
learning as an interactive, live-long acitvity, with reading at its core,
to acquire information as part of daily life. These skills are
insufficiently developed right now, especially in rural areas. A
publishing industry that has not realized its potential. Indonesia
possesses a substantial and healthy publishing industry, with a number of
large publishers, mostly in Java, who have distribution reaches throughout
the country. School textbooks form the largest part of the publishing
business, with the remaining titles on sale focusing mainly on the urban,
middle-class market. There is also substantial publishing of religious
texts, and especially in the urban areas and with the recent increased
freedom of the press, a vibrant market in newspapers and magazines.
Because of the almost non-existent book purchasing power of rural and
poorer segments of the community, there are almost no books serving these
communities. Bookstores exist in most urban areas, but there is very
limited access to a good selection of existing book titles in all but the
largest urban areas. Most bookstores have extremely limited stocks,
mostly concentrating on textbooks and related school items (dictionaries,
atlases, wallcharts), religious texts and pulp literature. Bookstores or
stalls, can be found in most towns, but of a very rudimentary nature,
providing testimony to the existing reach of distributors and interests of
the population, but also indicating the limits of penetration of those
books that do exist.A national public library system exists. A network of
provincial public libraries, under the management of the national library,



has been active in providing library services to the public. Provincial
libraries are generally housed in adequate buildings with significant and
appropriate collections; they are well attended. In several provinces,
the provincial library has been active in developing district-level
libraries which serve as true community and public libraries, with active
programs and reading promotion activities. While promising, these
initiatives are very limited, because of the limited budgets, although the
enthusiasm and dedication of the staff is encouraging. Limited resources
in grassroots libraries. A limited number of grassroots, community
initiatives for small libraries and book collections can be found in all
provinces. These libraries operate largely with volunteer effort and
almost no budgets, and serve small groups of constituents. They can be
found in mosques and other places of worship, and are often associated
with community efforts such as youth groups and farmers' extension
groups. While remarkable for their dedication and initiative, these
efforts are limited, with extremely small donated book collections and
only a limited number of useful titles. They show the limits of what is
possible with almost no resources and little training. The challenge will
be to build on the existing initiatives to make them more effective and to
develop a strategy to provide long-term financial support.Centralized
school library supply policy. Number of primary schools with effective
libraries is very limited. In most cases, the schools have only very
limited selection, inattractive to students. In general, library book
supply policies -- provided by projects -- were determined centrally and
thus took little account of the varied needs of different schools in
different localities. It was notable that, in most of the schools
librarians and class teachers had little idea as to which titles were most
popular with the students. It seems likely that their lack of interest
stemmed, in part at least, from the fact that they took little if any part
in deciding which library books should be ordered for their school. The
challenge will be to shift the responsibility for determining library
needs down to school and community level, at least the school-cluster
level. A teacher forum should provide opportunities for teachers to share
experience concerning library book usage and to agree on approaches to
book selection and ordering.
2. Objectives
To develop innovative approaches to increase the use of reading materials
in community libraries and SD librariesTo motivate students and
communities to use, enjoy and value books for recreational and
informational purposes To develop a strategy for community and primary
school (SD/MI) library support in the rest of the country, involving local
community support, non-government organizations and local government.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
N/A
4. Description
The project will find appropriate and effective ways of supporting
existing grassroots small libraries, that have already been put in place
by a few dedicated people or institutions and that provide reading
materials to the community around them. Primary schools that already have
small libraries will also be included and improved. The project
emphasizes the long-term sustainability of such initiatives, by working
with local communities and charities and with local government as well as
- 2 -



the private sector, to find optimal configurations of support and
self-initiative. The project will be implemented over a period of 3 years
in total 23 districts in 4 provinces: Central Java (10 districts), West
Nusa Tenggara, NTB (7 districts), South Sumatra (5 districts) and
Bangka-Belitung (1 district). The project will cover total 770 small
libraries: 25 primary school libraries and 10 community libraries in each
district. Each librray will receive small block grants during the three
project years, to purchase books and magazines, library materials, library
furniture, modest remodeling and to support reading promotion activities.
All activities will be supported by appropriate training and be
accompanied by a monitoring and evaluation program, to ascertain
sustainability and long-term expansion of the program.
1. Grants to small libraries
A. School Libraries
B. Community Libraries
2. Institutional Development
A. Technical Assistance and Training
B. Project Management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.45
IBRD
IDA                      4.15
Total Project Cost       4.52
6. Implementation
N/A
7. Sustainability
N/A
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
N/A
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Susiana Iskandar
The World Bank Office - Jakarta
Jakarta Stock Exchange - Tower 2, Fl. 12-13
Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav 52-54 Jakarta - Indonesia
Telp. 61-21-52993000 - ext 3032
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458 2701
Fax:  202 473 8065
-3-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 22, 2001.
- 4 -



