                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000169




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-35260)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.27 MILLION
                        (US$ 4.15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                      FOR A

                       LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                  January 4, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
    (Exchange Rate Effective October 27, 2006)
           Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
            RP 1 million = US$ 109.53
               US$ 1.00 = RP 9,130


               FISCAL YEAR
            January 1 - December 31




          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

      CLT             Community Library Team
      CPMU            Central Project Management Unit
      DL              District Library
      DLT             District Library Team
      EAP             East Asia Pacific Region
      GOI             Government of Indonesia
      GOM             Grants Operations Manual
      IDA             International Development Agency
      LGOM            Library Grant Operation Manual
      MOF             Ministry of Finance
      NGO             Non-Government Organization
      NTB             Nusa Tenggara Barat
      PMM             Project Management Manual
      PMR             Project Management Report
      PPMU            Provincial Project Management Unit
      SD/MI           Primary Schools
      SLT             School Library Team




     Vice President:    James W. Adams
   Country Director:    Andrew D. Steer
    Sector Manager:     Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:    Rosfita Roesli

                                                INDONESIA
                        LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                 CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
8. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 12
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 14
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 15
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 16
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 18
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 22
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 23
Annex 7. Detailed Rating of Bank and Borrower performance.................................... 25
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 26
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 27
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 28
Annex 11. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................... 35
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 36
MAP IBRD 31503R...................................................................................................... 37

1. Basic Information
                                                                       LIBRARY
Country:                 Indonesia             Project Name:           DEVELOPMENT
                                                                       PROJECT - LIL
Project ID:              P068949               L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-35260
ICR Date:                01/04/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:      LIL                   Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                       INDONESIA
Original Total
Commitment:              USD 4.15M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 4.12M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies
The National Library
Co-financiers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

      Process               Date            Process         Original Date    Revised/Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:          01/20/2000   Effectiveness:         03/21/2002       03/21/2002
Appraisal:               05/01/2000   Restructuring(s):          N/A              N/A
Approval:                06/08/2001   Mid-term Review:       12/01/2003       06/16/2004
                                      Closing:               12/31/2004       04/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance       Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                         No      Quality at Entry (QEA):             None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                              Yes     Quality of Supervision (QSA):       None

DO rating before Closing/Inactive
status:                            Satisfactory




                                               1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              12                 12
Sub-national government administration                         13                 13
Adult literacy/non-formal education                            30                 30
Primary education                                              25                 25
Other social services                                          20                 20
                                                         Original Priority  Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement                           Primary            Primary
Education for all                                            Primary            Primary
Education for the knowledge economy                          Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary            Primary


5. Bank Staff
                  Positions                        At ICR                 At Approval
Vice President:                           James W. Adam             Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:                         Andrew D. Steer           Mark Baird
Sector Manager:                           Christopher J. Thomas     Zafer Ecevit
Project Team Leader:                      Rosfita Roesli            Susiana Iskandar
ICR Team Leader:                          Rosfita Roesli
ICR Primary Author:                       Robert L. McGough




                                            2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal

The 2001 Indonesia CAS stated that there was a need to "deliver better public service to the poor.
Associated with this, it noted that decentralization was important as an objective to "bring the
government closer to the people and to enhance local government transparency and accountability as
well as community participation"(para. 51). It also stated that there was a need to "continue to help
empower communities so that poor everywhere have an opportunity" (para. 55). This project was
designed to partially address those concerns through the improvement of library services in rural areas.

In 2001, in rural areas, there was limited access to, and use of, many types of information in daily life.
In these areas, there is a long history of reliance on folk-based, traditional medicines, wisdom and
knowledge. Increasingly, in this global economy, life has become more complex and these traditional
approaches are less than sufficient. To gain the required knowledge, there is a need for rural
populations to have access to, and to actively use, more advanced levels of learning and development
related information. This will require a greater reliance on printed materials, information
communication technologies (ICT) and informed sources of information. There is also a need to
encourage rural populations to approach learning as a life-long interactive activity, with reading as its
core. It is particularly important that this focus on life-long learning be started while children are in the
formative years of their schooling.

In rural areas, the publishing industry has not realized its full potential. Indonesia possesses a
substantial and healthy publishing industry; however, because of the limited to nonexistent book
purchasing power in rural communities, there are few books made available to rural populations. In
towns and villages some bookstores and bookstalls can be found, but most have limited offerings.

Even though a national public library system does exist, it does not serve the rural populations well.
At the national level, large well maintained libraries exist. At the province level, the national system
maintains a network of smaller public libraries which have been successful in providing library
services to the public. These provincial libraries are generally well attended and are housed in
adequate buildings with significant and appropriate collections. In several provinces, the provincial
library has even been successful in developing a limited number of district-level libraries which serve
as true community and public libraries, with active programs and reading promotion activities.

At the community level, there is limited access to library services. There are a limited number of
grassroots, community initiatives for small libraries and small book collections can be found in almost
all of the provinces, but these small libraries operate largely with volunteer effort and little budget.
Furthermore, they generally serve only small groups of constituents. These small libraries can most
often be found in mosques and other places of worship, and are often associated with community
efforts such as youth groups and farmers' extension groups.

Finally, few primary schools have effective libraries, and where they do exist, in most cases, the
schools have limited offerings and facilities. For these reasons the libraries often prove to be
unattractive to students. In general, library book supply policies (often generated through development
projects) have been determined centrally, and for that reason, have not adequately taken into account
the varied needs of different schools in different locales. It has also been noted that there is a need to
shift the responsibility for determining library needs down from the national level to the school and
community level.




                                                      3

The project was proposed for funding under Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) scheme as the
project design attempted to try out new learning and innovative activities, including: (i) building the
capacity of the grass-root libraries in conducting participatory planning; (ii) introducing the use of
block grant mechanism to provide flexibility in funding library proposals, and (iii) supporting stronger
library network with long term vertical technical support.

The project covered 22 districts in 4 provinces: Central Java (10 districts), West Nusa Tenggara/ NTB
(6 districts), South Sumatra (5 districts) and Bangka-Belitung (1 district). The project covered a total
of 770 small libraries: 25 primary school libraries and 10 community libraries in each district ­ less
than 1% of the total number of libraries in the target areas.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original PDOs:
PDO1: To develop innovative approaches to increase the use of reading materials in community
         libraries and SD libraries;
PDO2: To motivate students and communities to use, enjoy and value books for recreational and
         informational purposes; and
PDO3: To develop a strategy for community and SD library support in the rest of the participating
         districts, involving local community support, NGO's and local government.

Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1 for complete table of outcomes):
KPI1: Average annual increase of number of books checked out in Community Library;
KPI2: Average annual increase of number of books checked out in School Library;
KPI3: Average annual increase of number of visitors in Community Library;
KPI4: Increase in number of teachers using books in School Library;
KPI5: Increase in number of School Libraries open for at least 4 hours per day, during and after
         school;
KPI6: Increase in amount of community donations to support Community Libraries;
KPI7: Increase in the amount of community involvement in School Libraries;

Intermediate Performance Indicator
KPI8: Number of non-project libraries supported by local government

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

PDOs were not formally revised for this project. Key Indicators were elaborated to provide more
measurement and clarity, but not formally revised for this project.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The main beneficiaries are:
    · School-age children in small communities and rural areas (primary target group);
    · Adults and out-of-school youth in small communities and rural areas;
    · Public and private schools that do not have satisfactory access to library services; and
    · District and community libraries that, typically, do not have sufficient resources to offer
         quality library services to community and school libraries within their respective service areas.




                                                    4

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

A.    Grants to small libraries (school library, community and district library)

B.   Institutional development:
      · Strengthening local capacity to develop school and community libraries; and
      · Project management

6.6 Revised Components

Project Components and PDOs were not formally revised.

6.7 Other significant changes

The project was formally amended once and the closing date was extended twice. In the amendment
dated 12/13/2004, the Bank agreed to a change in the project description to allow for (a) more
strengthening of District capacity, (b) the introduction of competitive grants for small libraries, (c) the
conduct of more qualitative studies and (d) the piloting of an ICT program in district libraries. This
amendment also reallocated some credit proceeds, and extended the closing date to 12/31/2005.
Following the first extension, GOI counterpart funds were not provided for about 11 months. This
resulted in a decision to extend the closing date for another four months to allow for completion of the
project activities. On 12/13/2005, the closing date was extended for a second time to 04/30/2006.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

This project was reasonably well designed at entry, although there were some shortcomings noted in
the monitoring and evaluation plan. The project design did include several features that proved to be
key factors in the success of the project:
  · The project preparation team utilized lessons learned in previous Bank and ADB financed basic
      education projects to design a block grant approach which proved to be particularly effective for
      library development. This feature provided for a stronger commitment to move funds from
      national/provincial to local levels, better transparency in funding allocations, and an operational
      mechanism that proved to be effective in providing library funding where it was most needed;
  · Also derived from lessons learned, the project featured activities that promoted strong
      participation by local communities in the planning, design and implementation of community
      and school-based libraries. This feature resulted in better utilization of available funds, more
      community commitment to sustainability, improved local library management, increased
      transparency, establishment of community library committees, and improved community
      donations to the library effort;
  · The preparation team also worked with The National Library to prepare a Project Management
      Manual (PMM) and a Grants Operational Manual (GOM) for the project. These manuals
      provided guidance for project managers and supported the award and implementation of block
      grants in the project. They proved to be important tools that improved project implementation
      and management transparency. The GOM in particular, became a key factor in the success of
      the block grants approach used in the project.
  · The project also established demand driven selection criteria whereby only community/ school
      libraries that are at least modestly operational and have an expressed interest can participate in
      the project.



                                                      5

During the project design, as described in the PAD, the National Library (as the Executing Agency)
played a key role in coordination and providing technical assistance as well as resources to the
provincial and the district libraries. The National Library was also a key institution in providing
technical assistance to the school and village libraries. This set-up was effective in allowing the project
introducing the new innovations.

What was not fully understood and anticipated during the project design and early project
implementation was the impact of the Decentralization Law that was passed in 2000 and the
increasing role of the district governments over district libraries and the school/ community libraries
and the ability of the project to disseminate of the innovation the rest of the libraries in the
participating districts. This impact and the team's approach to address this issue is elaborated in the
following section.

7.2 Implementation

This project experienced a delayed start-up but subsequently picked up speed and was able to meet
and exceed most of its Performance Indicators especially those related to introducing the innovation to
the beneficiary libraries and in motivating students and community to enjoy the libraries. On this
basis, the supervision team rated the project's implementation progress as satisfactory.

As project progressed through its implementation, the team noted that additional time and effort would
be required to fully meet Development Objective 3 which consisted primarily of a strategy to support
the rest of the libraries in the participating district. By this time, the impact of the decentralization
law at the district level was fully realized. The role of the District Government over District libraries
and school libraries especially in allocating resources were increasing while at the same time the
position of the National Library in the decentralized context was not clearly defined. The team noted
that after the decentralization, the executing agency - National Library - was not in the best position to
disseminate the good model - since it has no direct link with the school libraries or the village libraries
nor have the resources to support these libraries.

The approach the team took was to concentrate on strengthening the District Library - which belongs
to the local government - by providing them with more resources and technical assistance. The
assumption was, with their strengthened role in providing the technical assistance and ability to secure
funds from local government budget, the District Libraries would be in a strong position to
disseminate the successful models to the rest of the libraries in the participating districts. To
operationalize this approach, a revised implementation plan was prepared which included efforts to (i)
to introduce District Grant to allow District Libraries to strengthen their technical assistance role to the
remaining libraries; (ii) to introduce a ICT pilot to strengthen District role in providing facilitation;
(iii) to enhance coordination between National Library (implementing agency), Ministry of National
Education, District Education Office and Ministry of Home Affairs as well as Ministry of
Communication and Information; and (iv) to secure extension of project closing date to December
2005.

The project extension was secured as planned. On this basis, the project implementation remained
satisfactory up to the middle of 2005. Unfortunately, a serious problem occurred with the late issuance
of the 2005 budget which was not disbursed until November 2005 - only one month before the closing
date. This late disbursement of fund was also experience by other sectors as a result of the introduction
of a new budgeting system. The unavailability of budget for almost the entire year of 2005 had made
the action plan agreed ineffective. These delays and the lack of access to GOI counterpart funds



                                                        6

created uncertainty at the district level. As a result, the districts spent about 90% of their District Grant
for books and library equipment rather than balancing it with training and capacity building activities
as originally planned. The continued delay in the availability of counterpart funds also forced the
project to cancel the ICT pilot.

Rating on Project Implementation was subsequently changed to Marginally Satisfactory.
On December 2005, a second extension (4 months) was secured to allow for the implementation of the
District Grant and to prepare for the ICR.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As mentioned above (Section 7.1), as a LIL, this project would have benefited from a more rigorous
M&E framework design at entry, including the design of more precise quantitative and qualitative
performance indicators, monitoring of a control group (to provide comparison) and improved review
procedures to ensure better performance by the consultant responsible for the Impact Evaluation
Study. Three types of M&E activities were initially planned for this project. The GOI has provided a
Government prepared ICR for the project.

In the first, a formative process was envisioned in which the province would provide ongoing M&E
for the project. This was generally accomplished. With the assistance from National Library, the
provinces did report achievement based on the project's agreed upon Key Performance Indicators, as
part of the regular M&E process and was reported in the Project Progress report submitted to the
Bank.

In the second, the project planned to have PPIUs recruit NGOs, community-based organizations,
and/or individuals to assist in the successful implementation of this project. "Community facilitators"
would be assigned to be responsible for about 10-15 libraries and would visit regularly to monitor
activities, to provide feedback to the district and province, and to assist where needed, including
participating in the advocacy with local authorities. This aspect of the project was generally
successful. It tied M&E into the unique technical assistance approach that was implemented using
district teams of librarians to provide TA and training in community and school libraries. This TA
approach was both innovative and effective. It is one feature of the project that has been more fully
appreciated and institutionalized by the National Library and its subordinate district libraries.

In the third, an "Impact Study" was planned as a summative evaluation - in the middle and towards the
end of the project, to determine project achievements and to develop a plan for large-scale replication
of the innovations and lessons learned in the project. The completed "Impact Evaluation" was
conducted during the period of 2003 and 2004 by a local consultant contractor. An inception report
and final report were produced for this evaluation. Although the "Impact Evaluation" was a
significant effort, the study design, findings and recommendations were considered by the Bank's task
team to be variable in both quality and significance (For more details see Annex 4).

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

All audits were completed as required with no major issues noted. The only fiduciary issue was the
implementing agency's continued inability to provide the required counterpart funds in a timely
manner. This issue became a protracted concern that negatively impacted the implementation of the
project. It is discussed in more detail in Sections 7.2 and 8.4. With this single exception, the Borrower
is in full compliance with all standard Bank requirements regarding safeguards and fiduciary
compliance.



                                                       7

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

After the decentralization that was introduced in 2000, district libraries (as well as school and
community libraries) fell under the management of the district government. Their maintenance will
rely on the local government budget as well as assistance from the Provincial Government through the
Provincial Library. The role of the National Library in providing assistance (monetary and technical
assistance) to the district libraries remains unclear. Future operations and maintenance of these
libraries will be based on established policies and procedures of the Local Government. Likewise,
future funding of project operations and maintenance will be provided by government budgets or
through community contribution. No follow-up operation with The National Library is planned at this
time.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project was designed to fit into an array of planned and on-going projects partially financed by the
Bank and other organizations to support poverty reduction and rural development. The project was
also designed to support the GOI's goal to decentralize government decision-making down to the
district level. The project's objectives were designed to support the stated goals of the GOI and the
Bank's CAS which is: (a) poverty alleviation and (b) rural community development (Section 6.1).
Within the spirit of these stated goals, the objectives were designed to address a well defined need
(GOI) for stronger and more viable library systems that can effectively serve the diverse needs of
school-age children and adults at the district and rural community levels. Through these objectives,
the project was able to demonstrate (a) useful innovations to improve the quality of library services,
(b) ways to bring about more participation from the community, and an (c) effective approach for
future library funding and development in rural areas.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO1 - To develop innovative approaches to increase the use of reading materials in community
libraries and SD libraries (improving the supply/service of library) Innovations:

The achievement of PDO1 was satisfactory. The project was able to demonstrate improvements in the
quality of school and community library readership and services through the:

  1. Provision of new books and equipment, and by supporting the production of promotional
      materials and the implementation of promotional activities;
  2. Establishment a consultative process in the selection of books involving teachers and students in
      the case of school libraries; and library members in the case of community libraries;
  3. Establishment of cataloging systems in all project institutions;
  4. Improvement of library facility layouts, including better display of books, magazines and
      journals and display of new books;
  5. Establishment of a system of technical assistance to support school and community libraries,
      provided by district library personnel on a regular basis;
  6. Preparation and production of a self-paced learning handbook that provides simple guidance in
      managing a library; Widespread adoption of the above mentioned handbook to support GOI's
      ongoing efforts to develop community and school libraries;
  7. Supported increased socialization of libraries;


                                                      8

  8. Simple renovation of library spaces; and
  9. Supporting running costs where existing budgets were inadequate.

As a result of these inputs, the project's supporting output indicators show that book collections in
each province increased in school and community libraries. Operating hours in school libraries
meeting a minimum criteria of four operating hours per day, increased significantly in Central Java,
South Sumatra and NTB. Evidence (user interviews) from impact study indicates that library
training, provided through the project, resulted in improved quality of services. These improvements
include better organization of library materials, improved library facility usage and layout, more
efficient book retrieval, and the improved availability of information on available titles. User
interviews also showed increased satisfaction by library users. To support the above findings, actual
quantitative indicators (baseline and end of project) are presented in Annex 1.

PDO2 - To motivate students and communities to use, enjoy and value books for recreational an
informational purposes:

The achievement of PDO2 was satisfactory. The project was able to increase the motivation of
students and communities by:

1. Enabling project libraries to introduce reading promotion activities, such as writing book synopsis
    by students and library users, story telling; distributing small souvenirs such as book mark and
    stickers to the most frequent visitors and display of writing by students or library members;
2. Enabling the establishment of local book fairs. All 23 districts in the 3 provinces conducted annual
    book fair/ road shows, supported by book publishers; and
3. Supporting library staff to better understand the use of book fairs by visiting the national book fair.

As a result of these inputs, the project's supporting output indicators show that there was an increase in
the number of visitors to the project's community libraries in South Sumatra, Central Java and in NTB.
The project also saw a significant increase of books checked out in school libraries Central Java, South
Sumatra, NTB.

Although difficult to document, these increases suggest that there were improvements in management
procedures (recording of visitors, cataloguing of books) in all of these libraries. In two of the three
project provinces it was also noted that there was a significant increase in the number of books
checked out by teachers (S. Sumatra and NTB). In Central Java the increase was less, but this may be
due to the fact that that grants in that province were initially limited to use for student book purchases.
Only later, after grants 4 and 5 were portions of the grants used for the purchase of books selected for
teachers.

To support the above findings, actual quantitative indicators (baseline and end of project) are
presented in Annex 1.

PDO3: To develop a strategy for community and SD library support in the rest of the
participating districts, involving local community support, NGO's and local government:

The achievements of PDO3 are mixed, and for this reason the objective is rated as moderately
satisfactory. The project has not been successful in developing a strategy that will ensure that the
innovations will be sustained and scaled up to the rest of the participating districts. Although the
project was able to demonstrate a viable approach to future funding and development of district,
community and school libraries, it has not been able to fully demonstrate that there are significant,
sustainable achievements in the institutionalization and adoption of those approaches by the


                                                     9

implementing agency (the National Library). A number of factors contributed to this: (i) there is no
clear role between the National Library (and its provincial and district libraries) and the Ministry of
National Education/ Ministry of Religious Affairs (and the District Education Authority) in relation to
supporting school libraries; and (ii) there is no clear role of the National Library as the leading
institution in developing small libraries within the decentralization context.

There are indications that District Libraries are mobilizing their own limited resources to expand the
innovations to the non-project libraries. However, without strong and systematic support from the
National Library, the success of such expansion is limited. The project attempted to anticipate this
building a stronger support to improve the capacity of the District Libraries, through the provision of
District Block Grant that will allow District Libraries to strengthen their role in providing technical
assistance to the smaller libraries. Project extension was secured and plan was put in place. However,
due to the delay in budget availability at the final year of the project, this initiative had limited success
(see 7.2).

As reported above, the National Library and Provincial Libraries have supported, and many districts
are adopting the project established system of technical assistance to school and community libraries
provided by district library staff. There is also anecdotal evidence (from focus group discussions and
project supervision reports) that budgets are being increased for district libraries.

The impact evaluation did indicate that there was an increase in community participation in the
development and operation of all district, community and school libraries, but, again, only anecdotal
evidence is available to support that finding. The same is true of another finding that there was an
increased amount of community donations to support community and school libraries. For the
purposes of the ICR, these findings must be considered soft or discounted.

There is also evidence that the staffing of some school libraries remains constrained by the
unavailability of full time library staff, and that teachers have to take turns in managing the libraries.
Although this issue is beyond the scope of the project, it does reflect an important issue that remains
unsolved and currently limits the development of an effective strategy for district, community and
school library development.

8.3 Efficiency

The above efficiency estimates were not made for this project.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The project was successful in implementing most of its originally planned inputs; however the
expected outcomes as stated in the PDOs were not fully met. The project was successful in fully
implementing the PDO1 and PDO2 but it was less successful in the implementation of PDO3.

In the project design, PDO3 was significant in that it focused on issues and strategies associated with
long term sustainability and the GOI's stated goal to decentralize government decision-making to
lower levels. Although the project was successful in demonstrating the viability of block grant
funding schemes, local community participation, and the viability of using community donations and
other inputs to support library development, there is insufficient evidence to support any finding that
the GOI has moved to develop a strategy to institutionalize these innovations.



                                                      10

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project successfully demonstrated the potential of community participation as a vehicle for
individual and community empowerment in rural areas - a major focus of the GOI's poverty alleviation
scheme. This theme was likewise supported by the project's focus on the theme of decentralization.
Although not a strongly stated outcome of the project, the project also supported both equal gender
access to library services and the social promotion of the library system as a source of well-referenced
development information and learning as opposed to more traditional, folk knowledge and informal
learning for both youth and adults. This in-turn supports the theme of life-long learning, an emerging
focus in Indonesia and many other countries in the World.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project was able to demonstrate a number of important innovations that could lead to institutional
change/strengthening. These may be seen in the project's successful introduction of: (a) cataloging
systems at the community and school levels; (b) improved library layouts and systems for book
organization; (c) improved scheduling for user access to community and school libraries; (d)
approaches for preparation and production of library promotion materials; (e) consultative processes
for the selection of books involving teachers and students in the case of school libraries; and library
members in the case of community libraries; (f) approaches for the effective utilization of district
level librarians for the provision of technical assistance to community and school libraries; and (g)
approaches and materials for the improvement of library management at the community and school
levels. The project also demonstrated (h) the application of block grants as a vehicle for funding
future development and renovation of libraries at the community and school levels; and (i) the
innovative use of district book fairs to introduce students and teachers to books while, at the same
time, introducing book suppliers/publishers to the potential of marketing their books in rural areas.

There is some evidence (impact evaluation, GOI ICR, supervision reports) that some of these
innovations are being accepted and institutionalized by the project's district, community and school
libraries. Although, many of these project innovations have already been adopted by individual
project libraries at the district, community and school levels, there remains a concern that the National
Library System has yet to effectively adopt these reforms for nation-wide replication through
established policy and procedures.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

There were no unintended outcomes and impacts noted.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The impact study did conduct some focus group surveys of beneficiaries. The general findings of
these surveys were that the project activities were considered both useful and important to library
development at the community and school levels. Professionals in the library system fully supported
the implementation of the project and the rate of user participation/satisfaction was raised. The
beneficiary studies revealed no project activities that were controversial or unsupported by either the
library professionals or the users.




                                                     11

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.

This project has seen almost universal acceptance of its outcomes by the project's district, community
and school libraries. The risks to effective implementation and institutionalization are primarily found
in the (a) ongoing lack of funding to implement many of the changes, and (b) lack of GOI
commitment to effectively support the required changes through national institutionalization and
policy reform. There are few if any observed risks at the local level. In fact, many of the project's
demonstrated reforms have been adopted by district, community and school libraries where local
funding and administrative support can be mustered. It is likely that many of these innovations will
continue to be adopted on a wider basis as their effectiveness is further demonstrated by the adopting
libraries.

It is the judgment of the ICR that there is moderate risk that the National Library and its designated
budgetary authorities (province and districts) will not move to fully fund and implement the
recommended changes of the project on a national basis, and for this reason, the expected outcomes of
the project may not be fully realized.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

The project was effectively prepared in collaboration with the GOI and was moved quickly to
effectiveness. With the exception of the M&E plan, the overall design of the project was satisfactory
and the performance of the task team was satisfactory. The team was well staffed and managed. The
team followed preparation guidelines and made significant efforts to include the suggestions and
inputs from the GOI and all the other stakeholders in the sector. Of particular note, the task team
assisted the GOI to prepare a Project Management Manual (PMM) , and a Grants Operations Manual
(GOM) and provided substantial guidance and support to the preparation of the procurement plan.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

The supervision team was located at the Jakarta Field Office and for that reason had ongoing and
frequent opportunities to interact with the project. The supervision team had excellent relations with
the project management teams and the representatives of the National Library. The supervision team
made frequent trips to visit the project sites and over the duration of the project, was able to visit all of
the project sites - many more than once. This close relationship with the project management teams
(central - CPMU, provincial - PPMU, district - DLT, community - CLT, and school - SLT) and close
proximity to the project sites allowed the supervision team to provide both formal (as required by
Bank guidelines) and informal inputs to improve the quality of project implementation.

In general, the supervision of this project was well conducted and comprehensive. When issues arose,
they were efficiently and effectively addressed by the supervision team. The project's key



                                                    12

performance indicators were carefully monitored and documented in the supervision reports. The
Bank's supervision guidelines were closely followed and all supervision reports were well prepared
and reviewed by Bank management. Bank management made extensive suggestions on a formative
basis to improve the performance of the project. These suggestions were carefully considered by the
task team and implemented where possible.

Where fiduciary and safeguards policies were involved, the supervision team followed up with the
Borrower/implementing agency to ensure that all policy requirements were met. When there were
issues associated with the GOI's inability to provide counterpart funding through a portion of the
project, the supervision team addressed this issue and it was resolved in a way that allowed the project
to be fully implemented. There were no other outstanding issues in this regard.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

Based on established Bank guidelines for project identification, preparation, negotiation and
supervision, the project preparation teams worked effectively with the Borrower/implementing
agency/implementing agency to design, prepare, negotiate and set up the project for its
implementation. The supervision team for this project has also met or exceeded every requirement. It
maintained all scheduled supervisions, effectively provided a full set of complete supervision reports
as required, addressed all issues that arose in a timely and effective manner, responded to management
reviews by implementing suggestions as required, provided oversight and full implementation of all
fiduciary and safeguard policies as required, and conducted timely field visits to all project institutions
on a regular basis. Of particular note, the supervision team maintained excellent working relationships
with the Borrower/implementing agency and through that relationship was able to provide many
inputs that ultimately allowed for the project to be completed.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Not Applicable.

As per stated guidelines 10.2 (a) and (b) are not filled in. See (c) below for rating and justification of
Borrower Performance.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Not Applicable.

Implementing Agency                                 Performance
The National Library                                See (c) below.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The Borrower's performance during the identification, preparation and most stages of project
implementation was excellent. During this time, the project management teams (central - CPMU,



                                                    13

provincial - PPMU, district - DLT, community - CLT, and school - SLT) were established and the
Borrower participated fully in the designing, preparation and initial setup of the project for
implementation. The delay of the early start up was compensated by the ability of the Project
Management to pick up speed and meet the implementation milestones and indicators. With good
implementation progress, project extension was secured to provide extra time to complete the
unfinished work plan (Development Objective 3). However, towards the end of the new closing date,
the project was significantly hampered by the delay in budget availability. It should be noted that this
delay was also a result of the new budgeting system introduced nation-wide by the Ministry of
Finance.

The satisfactory implementation of project activities during most of the project life has resulted in the
project successfully meeting the DOs 1 and 2 and fully achieving the project performance indicators.
However, the project's inability to resolve the budget issue combined with the inability of the
implementing agency (the National Library) to institutionalize the demonstrated innovations and
lessons learned from the project contributed to the limited success of DO3.

11. Lessons Learned

General Lessons
1.   Libraries have a strategic role in promoting student and adult reading habits, interest in reading,
      attainment of student achievement and the establishment of a learned society;
2.   Library promotion and socialization programs, with precise targets, are important tools to
      support library establishment and to gain effective support from various parties for the library
      development;
3.   Intensive and direct approaches to policy makers, at both national and local levels, most often
      result in more effective political and economic support for the library development;
4.   Informal community leadership can often be used to accelerate the acceptance of library
      development and usage in a specific community;
5.   Library participation and usage will be more significant when library services are specifically
      designed to meet user needs (student, teacher, or community);
6.   Library team cooperation and transparency of library management both enable and increase
      support and participation from various parties during library development;
7.   The "Block-grant" mechanism is a particularly useful financial tool that encourages the library
      manager to learn planning and budgeting principles and techniques and to effectively account
      for library expenditures;
8.   Field training and on-the-job training seems to be more cost effective than formal classroom
      training as approaches to establish/improve library management skills of existing staff;
9.   Strong, informed leadership is a key factor in the dynamics and progress of library management
      at all levels, including the school library, community library, and the district public library; and
10. The assignment of management responsibility for district and lower level public libraries to local
      government organizations has proven to be an effective approach that encourages local
      governments to assume "ownership" of those libraries. This in turn, encourages local
      governments to promote and to finance district and local library development where there is a
      dramatic need for such services.

Community Library
1. Standard expenditure in the project allocations are not appropriate given the different geographical
    contexts (more dispersed areas need a greater proportion of funds devoted to travel);
2. Community libraries are more successful if they also have community and recreational areas (e.g.
    for group meetings, coffee houses);



                                                     14

3. Libraries that are more successful are those that generally serve their communities and are well
    managed internally. Not all libraries are truly embedded in their communities; some are add-ons;
4. Personal contact from libraries to district officials can increase support for the library. Other
    initiatives are somewhat useful, although largely seen as ineffective since they do not target key
    decision-makers who control financing. These include book fairs and outreach activities to
    communities; and
5. Libraries that are only project driven do not succeed. Those closely linked to religious institutions
    or youth groups are more successful. Mobile libraries are potentially important in getting greater
    variety of books (one reason why libraries are not used is because clients have read all the books
    of interest to them).

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

No substantive issues were raised by the Borrower.

(b) Co-financiers

N/A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A.




                                                   15

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Original PDOs:
PDO1: To develop innovative approaches to increase the use of reading materials in community
         libraries and SD libraries;
PDO2: To motivate students and communities to use, enjoy and value books for recreational and
         informational purposes; and
PDO3: To develop a strategy for community and SD library support in the rest of the participating
         districts, involving local community support, NGO's and local government.

Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1 for complete table of outcomes):
KPI1: Average annual increase of number of books checked out in Community Library;
KPI2: Average annual increase of number of books checked out in School Library;
KPI3: Average annual increase of number of visitors in Community Library;
KPI4: Increase in number of teachers using books in School Library;
KPI5: Increase in number of School Libraries open for at least 4 hours per day, during and after
         school;
KPI6: Increase in amount of community donations to support Community Libraries;
KPI7: Increase in the amount of community involvement in School Libraries;

Intermediate Performance Indicator
KPI8: Number of non-project libraries supported by local government

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

PDOs were not formally revised for this project. Key Indicators were elaborated to provide more
measurement and clarity, but not formally revised for this project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                        Actual Value Achieved at
     Indicator         Baseline Value Values (from approval   Formally Revised     Completion or Target
                                            documents)          Target Values              Years
Indicator 1 :         Average annual increase of number of books checked out in Community Library
Value (quantitative C Java 979 S      25%                                        C Java 7,466 S Sum 10,866
or Qualitative)       Sum 4,749 NTB                                              NTB 53,984
                      20,676
Date achieved          01/01/2002     12/30/2005                                 12/30/2005
Comments (incl. %     Actual % at completion was: C Java ­ 762%; S. Sum ­ 228%; and NTB ­ 261%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :         Average annual increase of number of books checked out in School Library
Value                 C Java 2,686 S  25%                     N/A                C Java 15,016 S Sum
(quantitative or      Sum 9,163 NTB                                              44,691 NTB 144,458
Qualitative)          65,094
Date achieved          01/01/2002     12/30/2005              01/01/2002         12/30/2005
Comments (incl. %     Actual % at completion was: C Java ­ 559%; S Sum - 487%; and NTB - 222%
achievement)



                                                    16

Indicator 3 :          Average annual increase of number of visitors increase in Community Library
Value                  C Java 1,373 S    15%                     N/A                 C Java 8,816 S Sum 19,375
(quantitative or       Sum 2,627 NTB                                                 NTB 73,788
Qualitative)           28,853
Date achieved          01/01/2002        12/30/2005              01/01/2002          12/30/2005
Comments (incl. %      Actual % at completion was: C Java ­ 642% S Sum ­ 737% NTB - 255%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :          Number of teacher using books in School Library
Value (quantitative or C Java 0 S Sum 75%                        N/A                 C Java 65% S Sum 87%
Qualitative)           0 NTB 0                                                       NTB 90%
Date achieved          01/01/2002        12/30/2005              10/01/2002          12/30/2005
Comments (incl. %      Stated percentages amount to the percentage of active teachers in the target schools that
achievement)           are using books in the School Library
Indicator 5 :          School Library open 4 hours/ day (during and after school)
Value (quantitative or C Java 0 S Sum                                                C Java 77% S Sum 88%
Qualitative)           0 NTB 0           100%                    N/A                 NTB 92%
Date achieved          01/01/2002        12/30/2005              01/01/2002          12/31/2004
Comments               Stated percentages amount to the percentage of the total number of libraries in the project
(incl. % achievement)service area that now have a policy of staying open at least 4 hours a day
Indicator 6 :          Increased community donation in Community Library
Value (quantitative or C Java 0 S Sum                                                C Java 100% S Sum 85%
Qualitative)           0 NTB 0           80%                     N/A                 NTB 61%
Date achieved          01/01/2002        12/30/2005              01/01/2002          12/31/2004
Comments               Stated percentages indicate the percentage of Community Libraries in the project service
(incl. % achievement)area that have received donations from the community
Indicator 7 :          Community involvement in School Library
Value (quantitative or C Java 0 S Sum                                                C Java 100% S Sum 74%
Qualitative)           0 NTB 0           positive increase       N/A                 NTB 66%
Date achieved          01/01/2002        12/30/2005              01/01/2002          12/31/2004
Comments               Stated percentages indicate the percentage of School Libraries in the project's service
(incl. % achievement)areas that have witnessed community involvement/participation during the project years


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                  Baseline     Original Target Values (from Formally Revised         Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator        Value           approval documents)           Target Values        Completion or Target
                                                                                                Years
Indicator 1 :    (number of) non-project libraries supported by local government
Value                          positive increase - but no
(quantitative or 0             information on amount or type N/A                    C Java 291 S Sum 7 NTB 13
Qualitative)                   of support.
Date achieved    01/01/2002 12/30/2005                         01/01/2002           12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %         Stated numbers are the actual number of non-project libraries in the three provinces that are

achievement)     now receiving some amount of funding from the local government




                                                        17

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                   18

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                  Appraisal  Actual/Latest
                    Components                    Estimate    Estimate     Percentage of

                                                  (USD M)     (USD M)       Appraisal

A. GRANT TO SMALL LIBRARIES                           1.71           2.02         118
B.1.INSTITUTIONAL DEV./STRENGTHENING
LOCAL CAPACITY                                        0.97           1.77         182

2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                 0.54           0.79          146
                              Total Baseline Cost     3.22           4.58
Physical Contingencies                                0.48
Price Contingencies                                   0.82
                               Total Project Costs    4.52
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00           0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00           0.00          0.00
                       Total Financing Required       4.52            4.58         101


(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal  Actual/Latest
           Source of Funds             Type of                             Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing   Estimate    Estimate
                                                   (USD M)     (USD M)      Appraisal

Borrower                                                 0.37        0.46          124
International Development Association                    4.15        4.12            99


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                             19

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component A. Grants to small libraries (School library, community library and district
library
· PDO1 - Block grants were successfully demonstrated as an approach to provide funding to school
    and community libraries: ($1,900 for single school libraries, $2,900 for multi-schools and $2,400
    for community libraries). These grants were paid in five trances within a 24 months period, with
    60% earmarked for books and the rest is for library equipment and promotional activities;
· PDO1 - Project district Libraries have also begun to provide more resources and improve their
    direct service to community libraries. An example of this effort may be seen in the District Library
    Grant ($4,000) and sponsorship from the private sector which assisted a couple of libraries in
    Central Java to open a new 'Children's Corner', equipped with audio visual and educational toys.

Component B. Institutional Development

Subcomponent 1. Strengthening Local Capacity to Develop School and Community Libraries
· PDO1 - All project libraries developed a consultative process to support book selection, involving
    teachers and students in the case of school libraries; and library members in the case of community
    libraries. Through this consultation, library reading collections become more interesting and
    attracted more readers;
· PDO1 - Catalogues with a synopsis of each book were produced by the central project and the
    three provincial management units to assist project libraries in making book selections. This
    catalogues was produced as a response to the selection difficulties faced by libraries who had
    limited information about the full choice of books available;
· PDO1 - Project library layouts were significantly improved. This resulted in better internal
    efficiency. Improvements included better display of books, magazines and journals, and improved
    traffic flow/control and use arrangements in the libraries;
· PDO1 - District libraries established a system of technical assistance to the school and community
    libraries. Traditionally, training was given to libraries by inviting them to the district for
    classroom-based training. The District TA system replaces this traditional training. In this
    improved approach, a weak performing library is used as a training laboratory and study case. The
    35 libraries in the districts are divided into 5 groups according to their location. Two staff from
    each of these libraries meets at the designated library, where they practice library skills under the
    guidance of the district TA/training team. Emphasis is placed on those skills where they
    demonstrate the most difficulty, such as cataloguing or arranging library displays;
· PDO1 - As a result of the experience of the clinical supervision, a self learning handbook was
    produced by the project that provides simple guidance in managing a library. This handbook is
    used intensively in Central Java for district staff to provide technical assistance and the overall
    improvement of library management;
· PDO2 - Reading promotional activities were introduced. These included such activities as writing
    book synopsis (by students and library users), story telling; the distribution of small souvenirs
    such as book marks and stickers to the most frequent visitors, and the display of writing by
    students or library members;
· PDO2 - All 23 districts in the 3 project provinces sponsored annual book fairs and road shows by
    book publishers. Each book fair lasted for about one week. The project provided funds for DLT to
    rent an exhibition venue. The responses from the book publishers and local bookshops were
    encouraging and it was commonly agreed that these events benefited not only project libraries but
    other school and libraries in the district. In Blora, Pekalongan, Magelang, Banyumas and Jepara
    districts in Central Java, book fairs have proven to be so popular that private publishers are now
    willing to pay for joining the exhibition (including their share of the cost for the venue). It



                                                     20

    estimated that after the project closes, about 74% (17 out of 23) of district are likely to continue
    funding book fairs;
· PDO3 ­ From a strategic and institutionalization perspective, the National Library has supported,
    and many districts are adopting the project established system of technical assistance to school and
    community libraries provided by district library staff (PDO1). It is noteworthy that many of these
    efforts are funded by community budgets, perhaps a testimony to its perceived effectiveness by the
    communities and a willingness to seek quality improvements in library service without the
    financial support of the National Library or its provincial and district level agencies. There is also
    anecdotal evidence (from focus group discussions and project supervision reports) that budgets are
    being increased for district libraries.

Subcomponent 2. Project Management
There were no significant outputs under this subcomponent. It financed the establishment of the
various project management units that were utilized to implement the project.

Project Impact Study (February 2005)

The "Impact Evaluation" found that the project has strengthened library services by: (i) providing
technical assistance to school and community libraries; (ii) socialization; (iii) buying books; (iv)
renovating library spaces; and (v) supporting running costs.

Project achievements included: (i) increasing the number of visitors; (ii) increasing the number of
books checked out; (iii) increasing service hours in community and school libraries; (iv) improving
cleanliness and orderliness of library facilities; (v) increasing the numbers and variety of book
collections; and (vi) increased user satisfaction with the service.

Other achievements are less well substantiated in the evaluation. These included the findings that
there was: (vii) increasing the diversity of users by age, gender and grade of students; (viii) increasing
the involvement of student, community and local government; and (ix) increasing district budget
allocations to both project and non-project libraries.

The evaluation noted that there are continuing problems with: (i) inadequate numbers and
qualifications of personnel; and (ii) inadequate record-keeping.

The remaining findings of the evaluation lack clarity and documented evidence to fully substantiate
them. These include findings that library improvement improves wider outcomes such as reading
ability of students or school graduation, and decreases in juvenile delinquency.




                                                     21

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)


Not Applicable - No economic or financial analysis was conducted for this project.




                                                22

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
          Names                      Title               Unit     Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Novira Kusdarti Asra       Financial Mgmt. Spec.   EAPCO        Financial Management
Susiana Iskandar           Sr. Education Spec.     EASHD        Task Team Leader
Dorothy N. Judkins         Program Assistant       EASHD        Administrative Support
Melanie Juwono             Consultant              EASPR        Costab
Yogana Prasta              Sr. Disbursement Off.   EACIF        Disbursement Specialist
Naseer Ahmad Rana          Adviser                  SARSQ       Procurement Specialist
Kenlee Ray                 Consultant              EASHD        Librarian
Rizal H. Rivai             Sr. Procurement Spec.    EAPCO       Procurement Specialist
Rosfita Roesli             Operations Officer      EASHD        Operations Officer
Jerry G. Strudwick         Sr. Education Spec.     EASHD        Education Specialist
Anthony G. Toft            Chief Counsel           LEGEA        Lawyer
Supervision/ICR
Novira Kusdarti Asra       Financial Mgmt. Spec.   EAPCO        Financial Management
Richard Cibulskis          E T Consultant          EASSD        MonEv and Impact
Robert L. McGough          Consultant              EAPVP        ICR primary writer
Daniel Moulton             Consultant              EASHD        Project Management
Rizal H. Rivai             Sr. Procurement Spec.    EAPCO       Procurement
Rosfita Roesli             Operations Officer      EASHD        Task Team Leader
Elsa Warouw                Program Assistant       EASHD        Administrative Support
Amalia Sapriati            Consultant              EASHD        Implementation
Anita Kentjanawati Tuwo Procurement Spec.           EAPCO       Procurement
Parivash Mehrdadi          Program Assistant       EASHD        Administrative Support


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


  No.    Date ISR Archived          DO                  IP         Actual Disbursements
                                                                          (USD M)
   1         12/30/2001       Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           0.00
   2         06/24/2002       Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           0.25
   3         12/26/2002       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory                         0.34
   4         06/12/2003       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory                         0.50
   5         12/23/2003       Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory                         2.08
   6         06/16/2004       Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           2.76
   7         12/23/2004       Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           3.45
   8         06/14/2005        Satisfactory     Satisfactory                           4.15

   9         05/15/2006       Moderately        Moderately
                               Satisfactory     Satisfactory                           4.15




                                              23

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY00                                    24                 88.71
                     FY01                                    20                 36.00
                     FY02                                    14                 13.14
                     FY03                                                         0.00
                     FY04                                                         0.00
                     FY05                                                         0.00
                     FY06                                                         0.00
                     FY07                                                         0.00
                                     Total:                  58                137.85
Supervision/ICR
                     FY00                                                         0.00
                     FY01                                                         0.00
                     FY02                                     1                   3.23
                     FY03                                     9                   8.28
                     FY04                                     8                 39.73
                     FY05                                    14                 45.08
                     FY06                                    14                 46.02
                     FY07                                     3                 14.99
                                     Total:                  49                157.33




                                         24

Annex 7. Detailed Rating of Bank and Borrower performance




         Bank               Ratings           Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                    Satisfactory  Government:          Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory  Implementing
                                        Agency/Agencies:     Not Applicable

Overall Bank                            Overall Borrower
Performance:              Satisfactory  Performance:       Moderately Satisfactory




                                       25

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)


There were no beneficiary surveys conducted.




                                             26

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                     27

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following comments are inserted without modification and/or editing as required by the Bank procedures.

                PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                                April 2006

        This executive summary presents the achievement made by this project, describes project
intervention that contributed to this achievement and presents some lessons about strategies for library
development particularly through cooperation between the National Library, Provincial Libraries and
District Libraries for the support of various stakeholders.

A.    PROJECT ACHIEVEMENT.

        The success of this project is measured by Performance Indicators specified and described in
the credit agreement between the Government of Indonesia and the World Bank. These include the
library use (demand) side and library service (supply) side. Thus, if both sides are achieved, a
conclusion can be drawn that the efforts to make improvements have increased interest in reading.

1. Library Use

        There was an increasing number of visitors to community libraries in the three provinces
during the project implementation. The average annual increases during the project implementation
were 51% in South Sumatera, 49% in Central Java, and 28% in West Nusa Tenggara, exceeding the
15% target


  Average number of visitors per annum to Community Libraries in South Sumatera, Central

                                      Java and NTB in 2002-2005


                    80000

                    70000

                    60000

                    50000

                    40000

                    30000

                    20000

                    10000

                         0
                       Baseline           Dec 2003         Dec 2004            Dec 2005


                                     Central Java     South Sumatera        NTB




        There was also an increasing number of books borrowed from community libraries and school
libraries during the project implementation in the three provinces. The average increases in the number


                                                    28

of books borrowed from community libraries were 26 percent in South Sumatera, 51 percent in
Central Java and 28 percent in NTB per annum. The average increases in the number of books
borrowed from school libraries were 44 percent in South Sumatera, 43 percent in Central Java and 27
percent in West Nusa Tenggara (NTB) per annum, exceeding the target of 25%.


Average number of books borrowed per annum from Community Libraries in South Sumatera,

                                Central Java and NTB in 2002-2005


                     60000

                     50000

                     40000

                     30000

                     20000

                     10000

                        0
                       Baseline          Dec 2003        Dec 2004        Dec 2005

                                  Central Java     South Sumatera    NTB




  Average number of books borrowed per annum from School Libraries in South Sumatera,

                                Central Java and NTB in 2002-2005


                    160000

                    140000

                    120000

                    100000

                     80000

                     60000

                     40000

                     20000

                         0
                       Baseline           Dec 2003        Dec 2004       Dec 2005


                                     Central Java   South Sumatera    NTB




        However, the expectation that a minimum of 75 percent of teachers would borrow books from
their school libraries was not fulfilled. In South Sumatera, only 87 percent of school libraries could




                                                   29

meet the expectation. In Central Java, even only 65 percent of school libraries could meet the
expectation. And in West Nusa Tenggara, 90 percent of school libraries could meet the expectation.

        The increased use of libraries is concurrent with the increased community appreciation for
libraries. This is indicated by the increased community participation in libraries. In many school
libraries, students voluntarily help library workers to serve their schoolmates. In addition, new
students and school graduates contribute more books. It is worthy of note that upon receipt of School
Operating Grants (BOS) some schools have stopped charging school fees because they consider it
contradictory to BOS regulations.

        In community libraries, the community appreciation for libraries is reflected in the
community's greater willingness to contribute money, energy and books. Mosque libraries generally
receive funds allocated from mosque infaq (donations) and membership fees. Libraries of social
organizations such as youth associations, PKK and farmer groups receive contributions from the
community through social activities they carry out such as bazaars, race walking, and even joint
ventures. Particularly in South Sumatera, using an approach to community figures, community
libraries also receive contributions from State-Owned Enterprises (BUMN) and other private
enterprises in the form of books and library buildings.

2. Improvement in Library Service

a. Library collection

        Community libraries and school libraries during the project implementation gradually
increased their library collections. The increase was not only in terms of quantity but also types of
readings in a wider variety and more suitable for the libraries' needs. Libraries at houses of worship,
for example, provided not only religious books but also books on skills, general knowledge and even
fiction, newspapers and magazines. School libraries provided not only more attractive textbooks but
also references and books required by teachers, and newspapers and magazine.

        Table 1 below shows that libraries' collections on average increased by 23 percent in South
Sumatera, 17 percent in Central Java and 55 percent in West Nusa Tenggara each grant tranche.


                                                    Table 1
           Average number of book titles and copies in beneficiary libraries in the Provinces of
                              South Sumatera, Central Java and NTB


Description      Base    Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 Tranche 4 Tranche 5                  %

                                                                                         Increase

SOUTH SUMATERA

No. of titles       680         834         988        1,142       1,296        1,450       22.67

No. of copies    1,043        1,273       1,503        1,734       1,964        2,194       22.00

Copies/titles      1.53        1.53        1.52         1.52        1.52         1.51




                                                   30

CENTRAL JAVA

No. of titles    1,144         1,342       1,540         1,737       1,935         2,133        17.33

No. of copies    1,712         2,030       2,348         2,666       2,985         3,303        18.67

Copies/titles      1.50         1.51        1.53          1.53         1.54          1.55

WEST NUSA TENGGARA

No. of titles      290           448         606           765         923         1,081        54.67

No. of copies      745         1,052       1,359         1,665       1,972         2,279        41.00

Copies/titles      2.57         2.35        2.24          2.18         2.14          2.11



b. Service Days and Hours

          Community libraries are expected to serve at least 3 hours a day and 6 days a week.
Community libraries that can meet this expectation represent 85 percent in South Sumatera, 73 percent
in Central Java and 90 percent in West Nusa Tenggara.

          School libraries are expected to serve at least 4 hours a day, half outside school hours. School
libraries that can meet this expectation represent 90 percent in South Sumatera, 77 percent in Central
Java and 95 percent in West Nusa Tenggara.

c. Available Library Staff

          Beneficiary libraries are expected to have staff to keep them clean and orderly. Community
libraries that can meet this expectation represent 85 percent in South Sumatera, 70 percent in Central
java, and 95 percent in West Nusa Tenggara. School libraries that can meet this expectation represent
85 percent in South Sumatera, 71 percent in Central Java and 95 percent in West Nusa Tenggara.


B.    PROJECT INPUT


1. Grant to Libraries

        This project provided grant to 770 community and school libraries. These beneficiary libraries
were selected on the basis of a questionnaire they filled in to state their interest in receiving subsidies.
The subsidies were distributed in 5 tranches in amounts depending on the types of the libraries.

        Single elementary schools (SD)/madrasah ibtidaiyah (MI) received Rp. 19 million ($ 1,900),
multiple elementary schools/MI received Rp 29 million ($ 2,900) and community libraries received
Rp. 24 million ($ 2,400). The funds were directly transferred to the beneficiary libraries' respective
bank accounts. In this way, the libraries may procure literature and other equipment according to their
needs.

        The beneficiary libraries' reports on fund use show that about 60-75 percent of the funds were
used to buy reading materials and the rest were used to buy furniture, reading promotion activities and
transport support for library managers.




                                                    31

2. Capacity Building to Develop Libraries


a. Training and Workshops

        During the project implementation, there were 18 consecutive training sessions at the CPMU,
PPIU and DLT levels. The training provided by CPMU basically prepares PPIU and DLT trainers. It
also builds the capacity of PPIUs and DLTs to manage the project.

        PPIU and DLT trainers provide training for district project managers and beneficiary libraries'
managers. To improve the effectiveness of the training particularly in building the technical capacity
of libraries, the training technique has been changed from classic to practical training in selected
libraries. This training is called Clinical Supervision because it is expected to be a future model of
supervision by DLTs.


b. Socialization of Project Implementation Progress

        The socialization of project implementation keeps community and school libraries informed of
the grants. Following a national socialization by the National Library (Perpusnas RI), socializations
also took place in the Provinces of South Sumatera, Central Java and West Nusa Tenggara early in
2002.

        Further socializations took place annually to disseminate the project implementation progress.
The socialization in the form of meetings was attended by related regional elements and dinases,
provincial and district levels, and the mass media and NGOs.

        The socialization has impacts on the support given to community and school libraries with
various intensities among regions. The support in the form of a budget allocation to increase literature
collections and engage library managers is the most prominent. The support becomes more noticeable
when there are actual changes in the appearance of beneficiary libraries. The community's willingness
to pay membership fees, contribute books and even serve as voluntary workers is a form of their
support.

c. Library Innovation Program

        This library innovation program was implemented in a limited way among selected beneficiary
libraries. The only purpose of the selection was to learn different experiences by implementing
innovative programs in different libraries. This program was implemented in cooperation with
properly competent NGOs.
        This program has provided beneficiary libraries' workers with the following experiences:
    a.    Designing a more attractive layout with simple decorations and a display of new books and
          interesting books.
    b.    Library promotion by holding clipping competitions, telling a story in a library room,
          producing school bulletins, and giving souvenirs to the most frequent visitors and borrowers.
    c.    Establishing relations with potentially sponsoring organizations by mail and email.

        This program has produced actual impacts on the appearance of target beneficiary libraries. It
    is worthy of note, however, that the innovations do not fully benefit some beneficiary libraries.




                                                    32

d. Evaluation

        To find out the success achieved after the implementation, CPMU conducted an evaluation on
innovations in elementary-school and community libraries in 2003. Data was collected by taking a
random sample of beneficiary libraries.

        This study concludes that students, teachers and the community have interest in reading. The
availability of staff is a very important factor. The variety of books and library promotion should be
improved.

        An effectiveness study conducted in 2004 by an external institution concluded that the project
has been successful in:

    a.   Increasing the number of visitors
    b.   Increasing the number of books borrowed
    c.   Reaching different representative library users in terms of student group, age and gender.
    d.   Obtaining the support of students, the community and the government for libraries.
        This is supported by the project's success in improving libraries' services in terms of:
    a.   longer service time
    b.   room cleanness and orderliness
    c.   increase in the quantity and variety of collections.

e. Book Exhibitions

        District Library Team held book exhibitions in their respective districts after attending an
IKAPI National Book Exhibition in Jakarta. The book exhibitions annually held by DLT have enabled
beneficiary libraries to meet publishers and bookstores face to face.

        This experience not only benefits library managers but also makes them understand that
regions have a demand for reading materials. This experience has encouraged bookstores and
publishers to hold more exhibitions particularly facilitated by district libraries. District book
exhibitions attracted the attention of visitors because they were accompanied by reading competitions
and other shows. In addition, district libraries cooperated with District Educational Dinases in inviting
students to their exhibitions.

        It seems that book exhibitions will be an essential part of district libraries' annual activities in
the three provinces. The existing data shows that at least 70 percent of districts could hold book
exhibitions financed by regional governments and supported by local publishers and bookstores.

f. District Libraries' Cluster Meetings

        Clusters meetings among beneficiary libraries in each district have been held routinely
particularly since 2003. In such meetings, project implementation progress and obstacles are
discussed. In some districts, these cluster meetings have built up social ties encouraging the
establishment of an association of beneficiary libraries.

g. Engagement of Consultants

          The efforts to strengthen beneficiary libraries particularly in implementing the planned
programs and developing innovations were supported by the following consultants engaged. At Centre
PMU: 1 Project Management, One Procurement and Five Training Consultants. In addition, nine


                                                    33

consultants were recruited to prepare ICR. At Province PIUs: Three Project Management Consultants.
One consulting firm for South Sumatera and 25 individual consultants respectively for Central Java
and West Nusa Tenggara were involved in developing innovations to promote reading interest and
community participation.

D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT

           Through a monitoring and reporting system adopted by Community Facilitators, this project
has tried to build a database. All beneficiary libraries, DLTs and PPIUs should have the database of
project activities and beneficiary libraries' developments.

           CPMU, PPIUs and DLTs in tiers monitor activities. PPIUs particularly monitor DLTs'
activities and beneficiary libraries' activities. The monitoring results are discussed at a coordinating
meeting by PPIUs, DLTs and Community Facilitators.


E.    POST-PROJECT STRATEGIES FOR LIBRARY DEVELOPMENT

        The experience from the project implementation shows that it is necessary to strengthen
cooperation between the National Library, Provincial Libraries and District Libraries.

        The National Library may play a role in establishing library standards and library staff
standards and providing training and technical guidelines for provincial libraries to participate in the
guidance.

        Provincial Libraries may play an important role in establishing cooperation between district
libraries. This cooperation is important to mutually support each other to strengthen themselves and be
able to provide guidance for community and school libraries.

        In order that community libraries and school libraries to attract users, they must be able to
update their collections at least every quarter and must have managers to maintain libraries and
promote reading habit. Therefore, the existence of libraries should be supported by a strong
commitment of regional leaders. For this purpose, it is necessary to build mutual cooperation between
the National Library, Provincial Libraries and District Libraries.




                                                    34

Annex 11. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                      35

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. 2001 Indonesia CAS
2. Project Information Document, May 2001
3. Project Appraisal Document, March 2001
4. Implementation Status Reports Numbers 1-9
5. Development Credit Agreement Number 3526
6. Amendment to DCA, December 13, 2004
7. Extension to Credit ­ December 13, 2004
8. Extension to Credit ­ December 13, 2005
9. Inception Report ­ Impact Study ­ December 03, 2003
10. Final Report ­ Impact Study, September 30, 2004
11. First Quarterly Report ­ Impact Study, undated
12. Second Quarterly Report ­ Impact Study, undated
13. Working Paper and Associated Documents, Visits to Three Provinces, January 16, 2003




                                                 36

MAP IBRD 31503R




                   37

