Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AlA se t? o 0 P
Report No. 6670-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
May 26, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restficted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officia duties. Its Contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00            -     Cz$ 14.20 1/
US$1.00                  Cz$ 31.00 7/
CZ$ 1.00                 US$0.0323
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                   -     January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program          April 1 to March 31
Project                                -     April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (December 1986).
2/ Exchange rate as of May 20, 1987.



FOR omCAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB             Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNDS           Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Social
(National Bank for Social Development)
CD             Community Development
CDB            Certificado de Deposito Bancaria
(Commarcial Bank's Certificate of Deposit)
CEASA-PB       Central de Abastecimento da Paraiba
(Central Marketing Organization of Paraiba)
CEPA-PB        Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Paraiba
(State Agricultural Planning Commission - Paraiba)
CIBRAZEM       Companhia Brasileira de Armazenamento
(Brazilian Federal Storage Company)
CIDAGRO        Companhia Integrada de Desenvolvimento Agropecuario
(State Agricultural Marketing Company)
CPATSA         Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics)
EMATER-PB      Empresa de Assistencia e Extensao Rural da Paraiba
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA        Empresa Brasileirs de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EMEPA          Empress Estadual de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Paraiba
(State Institute for Agricultural Research)
FINSOCIAL      Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
FUNDAP         Fundacao de Colonizacao e Desenvolvimento Agrario da Paraiba
(State Institute for Land Reorganization)
IC             Comissao Interministerial para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ICM            Imposto Sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias
(Tax on Product Circulation)
INCRA          Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao.e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
LDP            Local Development Project
MINTER         Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
MIRAD          Ministerio da Reforma Agraria e de Desenvolvimento
(Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development)
NRDP           Northeast Rural Development Program
OTN            Obrigacoes do Tesoro Nacional
(Obligations of the National Treasury)
PARAIBAN       Banco do Estado da Paraiba
(Paraiba State Bank)
POLONORDESTE   Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
PROHIDRO       Programa de Aproveitamento de Recursos Hidricos do Nordeste
(Water Resources Use Program for the Northeast)
PROTERRA       Programa de Redistribucao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-Industria do Norte e do Nordeste
(Land Redistribution and Agro-industrial Modernization
Program for the North and the the Northeast)
RDC            Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SAA-PB         Secretaria da Agricultura e Abastecimento do
Estado da Paraiba
(Paraiba State Agriculture & Supply Secretariat)
SCC            Comissao de Coordenacao Estadual
(State Coordinating Commission)
SEPLAN-PB      Secretaria do Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral
do Estado da Paraiba
(Paraiba State Secretariat of Planning and
General Coordination)
SERTANEJO      Programa Especial de Apoio do Desenvolvimento da
Regiao Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Seni-Arid Region of the Northeast)



SIMA           Sistema de Informacao do Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing and Information System)
SRDC           Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SRH            Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos
(State Secretariat of Water Resources)
SUDENE         Suiperintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
UT             Unidade Tecnica do Projeto Nordeste
(Northeast Project Technical Unit)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Table of Conteats
Page No.
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                           1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ....3...........*..*..*     * ***         3
Agriculture in the National Economy ..............       3
The Rural Northeast  .................****..***          3
Government Development Strategy for the Rural
Northeast                                              4
Experience with Past Bank Lending S...............       5
The State of Paraiba.................*............       6
III.  THE PROJECT                                                        7
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin   ....         7
Project Areao.........*.......o ...................      8
Project Objectives and Description ...e...o..o..o.       8
Water Resources Development o....................      9
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production        9
Rural Extension                                       10
Rural Investment Credit  ....................         10
Marketing Services . .. . .*.. ... .                  11
Support to Small Rural Communities                    11
Project Administration and Training                   11
Land Tenure Improvement .....12
Project Organization and Implementation ........         12
Federal and Regional Levels                           12
State and Local Levels .......................o.      12
Annual Planning and Budgeting ....o......o....o.      13
Accounts and Auditing *i.....ooo..oo.oo...o..oo.      13
Operating Agreements ...........................      13
Monitoring and Evaluation *.....................      13
Project Cost oo.oo... ...... ......... ..... .....      14
Financing Plan ooo** .0.eo..o.o.. ......o.o..o.o...     14
Procurement .o.oooo*oo.oo*eeeoe***o****ooo*             15
Disbursements  *. ooo. oo..o.........................   16
Project Benefits and Justificationoo...oo.........      16
Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes                 16
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact o.........o...o.      17
Economic Analysis  *oo...4...........e........        17
Project Risks  *o.o...oo.o ...o.o..  oooo....oe....     18
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION.....................         18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during December 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. A. Berthier
(mission leader), J. Heidebroek, H. von Pogrell, D. Mitchnik,
Ms. M. Anderson (IBRD), and Mr. J.M. Pliego-Gutierrez (Consultant).



ANNEXES:                                                               Page No.
ANNEX 1 - PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .                     21
Table 1.1  Structure of Land Holdings in the Project Area .........   30
Table 1.2  Evolution of State Agricultural Production .............   31
Table 1.3  Project Area and Beneficiary Distribution ..............   32
Table 1.4  List of Municipalities in the Project Area                   33
Table 1.5  Project Components by Year                                   36
Table 1.6  Summary Account by Project Component....................   37
Table 1.7  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements................   38
Table 1.8  Allocation of Loan Proceeds ......................    39
Table 1.9  Financing Plan                        .                      40
ANNEX 2 - PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT          ......................  41
Table 2.1  List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies ...........     44
Chart 1   Project Coordination and Management Chart        ..............  45
Chart 2    Public Irrigation Management Chart         .....................  46
Chart 3    Implementation Schedule  ...............................   47
ANNEX 3 - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS *.......................-   49
Table 3.1  Total Annual Area, Marketable Production and
Value of Major Crops Without Project and
at Full Development         ....................    51
Table 3.2  Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models Used
in Financial and Economic Analyses ......................   52
Table 3.3  Estimated Areas and Yields of Major Crops at Farm
Level Without Project and at Full Development ...........   53
Table 3.4  Project Economic Analysis         ..............................   57
Table 3.5  Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic
Analyses                                            .....   58
Table 3.6  Project Sensitivity Analysis ...........................   59
ANNEX 4 - DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ....................   60
MAPS:     IBRD 18686-R - Yearly Land Adjudication Operations
IBRD 20376   - Project Area
IBRD 20398   - Agricultural Potential Defined by Dependable
Rainfall



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
DRAFT STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I* LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing
Agency:        The Northeast Project Technical Unit (UT) within the
Secretariat of Planning of the State of Paraiba (SEPLAN-PB).
Loan Amount:   US$60.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
Including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries: Some 37,800 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 96 municipalities of the State of Paraiba would
directly benefit from the project. A larger number of
families would also benefit from the water supply, community
development and marketing components.
Project
Description:   The proposed project is one of a series of projects within
the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). The
project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity; (b) generate income and
employment opportunities for low-income rural families;
(c) promote water resources development and technology
generation and diffusion to decrease small farmers'
vulnerability to recurring droughts and pest outbreaks;
(d) increase community participation in all phases of the
development process; and (e) strengthen the State of
Paraiba's institutional capacity to provide efficient
agricultural services to small farmers. In order to meet
its objectives, the project would support water resources
development for agriculture and domestic use, adaptive
agricultural research, agricultural extension, investment
credit, marketing services, funding for community
subprojects and project administration and training.
Risks:         Possible project risks include:  (a) insecure land tenure;
-            (b) inefficient delivery of project services; (c) lack of
sufficient interinstitutional cooperation; (d) recurring
droughts and cotton pest outbreaks; and (e) delays and
shortfalls in counterpart funding and credit. The project
has been designed so as to minimize these risks. Progress
will be closely followed by Bank staff through review of
annual operating plans and improved supervision, monitoring



-2-
and evaluatlon. Implementation of the Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project and the Government's agrarian reform
would increase land tenure security. Streamlined administrative
procedures, measuree for institutional strengthening and technical
assistance for selected agencies would improve efficlency and
project coordination. Crop diversification and intensified
technology generation and diffusion would make farmers less
vulnerable to drought and pest outbreaks. The Government adopted
new measures in 1986 to ensure the timely availability of
counterpart funds and credit. In addition# the regional scojd of
the Northeast Program and the support the Program enjoys among
government and local leaders should help secure adequate funding
and satisfactory implementation of the proposed project.
Estimated ProJet Costs
Estimated Costs:                                Local       Forelgn      Total
~ - ---US$ millione--
A.  Water Resources Development                15.1         4.0        19.1
B. Agricultural Research and
Basic Seed Production                      7.1         0.8         7.9
C.  Agricultural Extension                     24.3         0.9        25.2
D.  Rural Investment Credit                    32.1         5.6        37.7
E.  Marketing Services                          2.0         0.4         2.4
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities         12.5         1.9        14.4
G.  Project Administration and Training         8.4         0.4         8.8
Total Baseline Costs                          101.5        14.0       115.5
Physical Contingencies                          2.1         0.7         2.8
Price Contingencies                             5.2         0.4         5.6
Total Project Costs                           108.8        15.1       123.9 1/
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign    Total
-  -US$ millions--
Government                                   63.9         -            63.9
IBRD                                        44.9        15.1           60.0
TOTAL                                      108.8        15.1          123.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
~~~-  - --- -US$ millllons-----
Annual         4.8 2/ 4.8    8.4    9.0   10.2    9.6    6.0    4.8    2.4
Cumulative    4.8 -   9.6   18.0   27.0   37.2   46.8   52.q   57.6   60.0
Rate of Return: 14X
Maps:   IBRD 18686-R, 20376 and 20398
1/ Including about US$4.6 million of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$2.8 million into the Special Account.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture i- Brazil has traditionally been the main source of exports
and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In 1970,
agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active population
and 67% of total exports. In 1985, these figures were 13%, 30%, and 31%,
respectively. Throughout the 1970P, there was rapid expansion in Brazil's
agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early 1980s, output and
investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
2.02      The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply disparate
rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy capital investment or high
levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane on large
commercial farms in central and southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and
in some cases declines, were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize,
wheat, beans, manioc and potatoes.
2.03      These trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trades In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports depended heavily on
soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar. Of total agricultural
exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15% were accounted for by these five
crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of Brazil's US$9.43 billion of
agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of agricultural exports hardly grew
at all, except in 1984, when coffee and orange juice were aided by highly
favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
2.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio
Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, the northern
portion of the State of Minas Gerais, and the island of Fernando de Noronha. The
region covers a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the country's total
area).
2.05      The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since the
late 1800s because of drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and
limited employment opportunities. These problems resulted in high levels of
poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from
the region, partially in response to a five-year drought (1979-1983). In 1985,
the Northeast had a total population of 39 million (about 29% of the country's
total), growing at 2.3% per annum with a population density of 25 inhabitants per
square kilometer. Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50% of the
work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly concentrated:



- 4 -
farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms) occupy less thsn 62 of the farm area; farms
over 500 ha (1X of all farms) occupy more than 40X of the farm area. Rural
incomes are low. In 1985, about half of the Northeast rural population earned one
quarter or less of the official minimum wage (about US$6O0 annually).
2.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (cotton, sisal,
cassava, and sugar) represent significant shares of national production. The zona
da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains one-third of the regional
population and a major proportion of industry and plantation agriculture. The
agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, is dominated by
mixed farming, as well as the raising of cattle. The sparsely populated semi-arid
sertao, where cattle raising and cotton cultivation are predominant, is the
largest of the subregions and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts.
Government Development St.ategy for the Rural Northeast
2.07      Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural Northeast
were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and incentives for export
crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development and the need for improved
regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency for the
Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE was originally responsible. for
coordination of public investment, drought emergency measures and powerful fiscal
and credit incentives to attract new private investment. The initiative for
regional policy formulation was transferred to various Federal agencies in the
1970s, with SUDENE continuing to play an important role in the coordination of
federally funded special rural programs.
2.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The first was
baaad on the in.egrated development of selected subregions. It included the
Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), the
Special Program of Support for the Development of the Semi-Arid Region of the
Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of Support for the Small Sugarcane
Growers. The second approach was concerned with alleviating the effects of
drought. It included several parallel programs such as the Water Resources Use
Program (PROHIDRO), the Agricultural Research Program for the Semi-Arid Tropics
and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public
irrigation projects.
2.09      Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first two
approaches in alleviating rural poverty and increasing agricultural production had
been limited. The new initiative is to be implemented through a series of
sectoral projects in such areas as land tenure, federal irrigation, health,
education and integrated rural development. The Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP), simpler in design than the previous efforts supported by the Bank,
is a 15-year program which focuses on eliminating key constraints (land tenure



- 5 -
insecurity, drought vulnerability and limited access to credit and use of modern
technology) on small farm development, It is based on a comprehensive regional
policy framewort, multiyear state rural lwestment plans and the integration of
all current rural special programs. NRDP Regional guidelines establieh unified
and streamlined funding and administrative procedures and mechanisms for increased
beneficiary participation aud improved institutional performance.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.10      The Bank has made 41 loans, totaling US$3,268.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one agricultural
credit and export loan for US$3C3.0 million; one credit and marketing reform loan
for US$500.0 million; supplemental financing for US$30.5 million under the Special
Action Program; three loans for US$519.2 million for agroindustries; two for
US$60.5 million for livestock; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for
US$10( million for agricultural research; two for US$255 million for agricultural
extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure improvement; and 27, totalling
US$1,382.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation, and rural development
projects in the Northeast3/, in Minas Gerais, and in the North and Northwest.
2.11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONOROBSTE rural development
projects located in eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976 to 1983, three of
the projects are still being executed; the other seven have been substantially
completed. Implementation of all POLONOROESTE projects generally improved over
the years, especially in project planning and agency coordination. The combined
Project Completion Report for the Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe Rural
Development projects (Loans 1195 and 1714-BR) showed that, despite lower than
expected rates of return in both projects, adopting farmers' incomes increased
substantially. However, these two projects, similar to the others, experienced
implementation and disbursement delays> mainly because of the unusually severe and
prolonged 1979-83 drought, delays in providing local funds, limited execution
capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation and land activities, and initial
lags in the generation of drought-resistant technology for small farmers. The
Completion Report concluded that fundamental development constraints, such as
insecure land tenure, or uncertain water availability, should receive priority
treatment in future project design and investment. These problems and priorities
were addressed during the preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Paraiba
2.12      Location and Natural Features.  Paraiba covers 56,000 km2 and is the
third smallest state in the Northeast. The driest area, the sertao (which
includes the southern subarea of the Cariri da Princesa), has a rainfall of
3/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank Country
Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Programs for the
Northeast, Washington, D.C. 1983.



- 6 -
400-700 mm per year, which Is irregularly distributed, and a long dry season of
seven to ten months; soils are generally shallow and impermeable. The agreste, a
transitional region, has an average annual rainfall of 600-1,000 mm and five to
seven months of rain. The zona da mata (litoral), along the coast, and the brejo,
an elevated inland region, have a more humid climate with rainfall of 1,000-1,500
mm and fertile soils. The State is drained by two major rivers (Paraiba and
Piranhas), both with a perennial flow. Underground water is plentiful on the
coast, but generally very deep and of poor quality in the interior.
2.13      Economic and Social Conditions.  Some 48% of Paraiba's total population
of about three million lives in the rural areas; because of migratory trends,
the rural population is decreasing. Population density (50/km2) is one of the
highest in the Northeast. GDP per capita is low (US$230). About 90% of the
agricultural work force earns less than the minimum wage (about US$675 annually).
Agriculture accounts for about 23% of the State's GDP. Living conditions for most
of the population are poor; there is only one doctor for 4,000 inhabitants and
even less in the rural areas, Sixty-eight percent of the rural population is
illiterate. Infant mortality is high, and access to treated water is limited.
2.14      Land Tenure and Production.  Most of the farms are small, but land
distribution is highly skewed. The 500 largest farms occupy as much land (one
million ha) as the 100,000 smallest farms (below 50 ha) in the State. Of a total
of 170,000 producers, 65,000 are landless (40%). Small producers grow mostly
foodcrops (beans, maize, cassava) and also play a dominant role in the production
of cotton and bananas. Large-scale farms in the litoral mostly grow sugarcane and
pineapple; land in the sertao is mostly used for extensive grazing, sisal and
cotton.
2.15      Agricultural Services.  Because of previous rural investments in
Paraiba, there are a number of agencies and a core of trained technicians with
agricultural development and project management experience. The planning,
administration and coordination of the State's rural development programs used to
be carried out by the State Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-PB). The State
Secretariat of Planning's Northeast Project Technical Unit (UT) became responsible
for these duties in 1985, and has already gained some experience in the
coordination of rural development programs. Smaller in size than CEPA-PB, and
assigned exclusively to the project with qualified staff, UT is now adequately
staffed at Headquarters and will progressively strengthen its regional offices.
Land regularization and redistribution activities are entrusted to the State
Institute for Land Regularization (FUNDAP). Reorganized and strengthened in 1985,
FUNDAP is one of the most efficient land institutes in the Northeast and has
carried out almost all of its annual targets under the Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project. Agricultural research is the responsibility of the
State Institute for Agricultural Research (EMEPA), a well-run organization, which



- 7 -
is able to play an important role in the adaptation of low-cost technology
(including pest control programs, for cotton in particular). Agricultural
extension is provided with mixed results by the State Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Company (EMATER-PB). EMATER-PB will need to improve its planning
and supervisory activities particularly at field level. Water resources
development, still at an incipient stage, is mostly done by the newly created
State Secretariat of Water Resources (SRH). Civil engineering and irrigation
works are all carried out under contract to private specialized firms. Because of
its inexperience, SRH will be greatly strengthened under the project (para.
3.06). Three major public banks (the Bank of Brazil, the Bank of Northeast of
Brazil and the State Bank of Paraiba) provide credit to farmers through a
generally adequate branch network. However, demand for official credit by small
producers is far greater than supply. Finally, public agricultural marketing is
handled by the Central Marketing Organization of Paraiba (CEASA-PB), which is
efficiently running the marketing information and orientation services, and by the
State Agricultural Marketing Company (CIDAGRO),responsible for other marketing
services. Past performance of CIDAGRO, a parastatal institution, has generally
been lower than average, and its participation in the project has been limited.
2.16      Rural Deveiopment in Paraiba and Previous Bank Participation.  The Bank
has previously assisted the State's rural development in one of the nine
macro-planning regions, the Brejo.  The Paraiba Rural Development Project, with a
loan of US$24.0 million (Loan 1537-BR), was approved in March 1978. The execution
of the project has been severely hampered by a chronic shortage in counterpart
funds and federal rural credit resources. The late addition of a land tenure
improvement component (only started in the fifth year of the project) and a poor
relationship between the coordinating unit (CEPA-PB, within the Secretariat of
Agriculture) and the Secretariat of Planning were other constraints. Despite
these constraints, most components have progressed satisfactorily, although at a
slower pace than anticipated, and project beneficiaries (mainly those producing
potatoes and bananas) have increased their income. The loan, extended by three
years, closed on September 30, 1986; the remaining balance of the loan (about
US$2.0 million) is being cancelled.  Problems that arose during the execution of
the Paraiba Rural Development Project were addressed during appraisal of the
proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01      The Bank's lending strategy in Brazil aims to promote and assist
structural reform, to develop and maintain essential infrastructure, and to
improve productivity and living conditions of the rural and urban poor. The
Government of Brazil attaches high priority to decreasing regional disparities.
Incomes in Northeast rural areas are less than 35% of the national average. The
NRDP, of which the proposed project is a part, forms a central part of the



- 8 -
Government's iwestment strategy to narrow the gap between the Northeast region
and the rest of the country and to alleviate rural poverty.
3.02      In August 1982, the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP which is comprised of ten state projects and a regional land
tenure improvement project. In April 1985, the Baik approved the Northeast Rural
Development Projects for the States of Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte (Loans
2523-BR and 2524-BR, respectively). In addition to supporting the Sergipe Rural
Development Plan, the first project established the structure and operating
procedures for regional program planning, coordination and research to support all
ten Northeast state rural development plans. In June 1985, the Bank approved the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR), which finances
cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern states (Map IBRD 18686-R). The NRDP
project for the State of Pernambuco was approved in June 1986, and projects for
the States of Bahia, Piaui and Ceara were approved in October 1986. Projects for
the three remaining States (Maranhao, Alagoas and Minas Gerais) are being
presented to the Executive Directors simultaneously with the proposed project.
While it is still early on in the implementation of the NRDP, initial experiences,
particularly with respect to federal and regional management, counterpart funding,
and beneficiary participation, are encouraging.
3.03      The project was appraised by the Bank in December 1986, and
negotiations took place in Washington in April/May 1987. The Brazilian delegation
was led by Ms. Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of Finance.
Project Area
3.04      The State selected 96 of Paraiba's 170 municipalities as priority areas
for development. Emphasis was put on the brejo, agreste, litoral, and some areas
of the sertao regions (Map IBRD 20376). These priority areas generally have a
high concentration of small farmers and a potential for crop diversification and
increased livestock production. The selected priority areas also coincide with
the areas selected for cadastral and land regularization operations financed under
the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR).
Project Objectives and Description
3.05      The main objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a) increase
agricultural productivity and production; (b) generate income and employment
opportunities for low-income rural families; (c) promote water resources
development and technology generation and diffusion to decrease small farmers'
vulnerability to recurring droughts; (d) increase community participation in all
phases of the development process; and (e) strengthen the State of Paraiba's
capacity to provide efficient agricultural services to small farmers. The project
would directly benefit an estimated 37,800 low-income farm families, each farming
less than 100 ha.   A larger number of families would benefit from the water
supply, marketing and community development components. The project components



- 9 -
are described briefly below (with, in parentheses, the relative percentages of
total project costs) and in Annex 1.
3.06      Water Resources Development (18%).  This component would include:
(a) constructilon if six medium-sized, state-managed irrigation schemes totalling
2,900 ha of irrigated land, benefiting 1,000 families; (b) studies covering 7,500
ha to support the development oi the State's irrigation plan and the preparation
of irrigation projects for implementation under future projects; (c) a program of
technical assistance to strengthen the implementing capacity of the SRH; (d)
construction and rehabilitation of 110 simple water supply systems and (e)
production and distribution of 5 million fingerlings annually for stocking of
public lakes and reservoirs with local fish species and monitoring of fishing
activities. In addition, 6,000 ha of private irrigation would be financed under
the rural inwestment credit component (para. 3.09). There would not be any
itwoluntary resettlement under the public irrigation subcomponent which would
include only river pumping schemes. It was agreed during appraisal that the
institutions dealing with irrigation schemes would be reinforced, as follows: for
private irrigation, creation of 'a special coordinating unit within the Secretariat
of Agriculture; and for public irrigation, under the responsibility of the
Secretariat of Water Resources, creation of a planning unit at the state level,
and of a field management unit in the sertao region. A condition of loan
effectiveness would be that the Bank be provided with evidence of the creation and
satisfactory staffing of these three units (para. 4.04). During negotiations, the
State Government prwmided assurances that the staffing of these units would be
maintained under conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03 (a)). A
condition of disbursement for loan proceeds financing the construction of each
public irrigation scheme would be that the Bank has: (a) received proof of land
acquisition and (b) approved the detailed engineering designs and settlement
plans (para. 4.05). Any loan proceeds so allocated would be cancelled if not
committed by September 30, 1989 for the first three irrigation schemes; by
September 30, 1990 for the fourth and and fifth of such schemes; and by September
30, 1991 for the sixth such scheme (para. 4.06).
3.07      Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production (7%).  Applied research
would be directed towards simple technologies to make farming systems more
productive and resistant to possible drought and pest outbreaks. It would
include: (a) three agroecological and natural resources studies to assist in
future research planning; (b) 180 short- and medium-term applied research trials
at experiment stations to improve production technology; (c) establishment and
monitoring of about 30 observation farms to test and adapt integrated farm
production and distribution technology; (d) annual production of about 50 tons of
basic seeds for multiplication; (e) annual production and distribution of about
one million fruit tree seedlings; and (f) a pilot breeding stock improvement
program for goats and sheep, which would be distributed to farmers. EMATER-PB
would be responsible for the distribution of these animals to selected producers.
These producers would eventually return an equivalent number of animals to EMEPA



- 10 -
to be passed on to other producers. EMEPA would develop its adaptive research
program in cooperation with both farmers and extension officers, and appraise both
technical and economic results from the farm-level observation units.
3.08      Rural Extension (22%).  This component would include: (a) establishment
and maintenance of about 150 demonstration plots on farmers' fields;
(b) equipment, salaries and related operating costs, on a declining basis, for up
to 260 agricultural and social extension agents, about 30 subject-matter
specialists, and 130 administrative staff divided in six regional and 86 local
offices; (c) production of about 500,000 tree-crop seedlings annually for farmers
to plant fodder, fuelwood and fruit trees; and (d) the implementation of a cotton
pest control program for 7,700 farmers. The low ratio of agricultural extension
agents to farm families would improve gradually from Year 1 to Year 8 of the
project as follows: for farmers in rain-fed areas: 1:180 to 1:300; for farmers
who will benefit from irrigation: from 1:50 to 1:100; and for cotton growers who
will need to receive intensive support for the implementation of the pest control
technology: from 1:100 to 1:250. The National Program for the Control of the
Cotton Pest would be coordinated and monitored by the newly created State
Executive Commission for Pest Control and implemented by EMATER-PB, with
assistance from EMEPA. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that the State Executive Commission for Pest Control, which is
responsible for the cotton pest control program in the State, in collaboration
with EMEPA and EMATER-PB, would coordinate with the Ministry of Agriculture to
ensure thatVthe research and extension annual work programs are consistent with
the National Program (para. 4.03 (b)).
3.09      Rural Investment Credit (30%).  The project would finance medium- and
long-term credit for on-farm investments for about 11,500 farmers (30% of the
37,800 direct beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-term
production credit to be financed by participating banks (para. 2.15). Farmers
would contribute their own labor to on-farm investments. However, because of
farmers' limited savings, financing would cover up to 100% of the cost of goods
required for on-farm investments, with a maximum repayment period of twelve years
and a maximum grace period of three years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation
schemes larger than 4 ha, and automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would
not exceed ceilings established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's
Manual for Rural Credit for individual farmers; farmers' associations and
cooperatives would also be eligible, provided that at least 70% of their members
are small farmers who would directly benefit from the investments.
3.10      Recently, new official rural credit terms were established for Northeast
Brazil. Under those terms, the interest rate for rural investment credit charged
to Northeast farmers (excluding those cultivating sugarcane, cocoa, rubber and
coffee, who would be charged a higher rate) would be 3% per annum, with full
monetary correction, based on the monthly variation of the value of National
Treasury Bonds (Obrigacoes do Tesouro Nacional, OTNs). This compares with an
interest rate of 6% per annum with full monetary correction on official rural
investment credit for all farmers outside of the North and Northeast. To provide
low-income small farmers with a strong incentive to invest in the project's



- 11 -
technical packages, project beneficiaries would have a portion of their first
investment loan rebated as a grant. The percentage of the grant would be: 50%
for investment loans approved from March 1, 1987 to December 31, 1988; 40% for the
period January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1989; and 30% from January 1, 1990
onwards. The rebate would occur at the time the loan funds were released to the
farmer. While still providing a significant subsidy, the new terms have several
advantages over previous NRDP credit arrangements which resulted in large
subsidies due to the partial or total absence of monetary correction on the
principal of the loan. Under the new agreement, the total amount of subsidy would
be known and budgeted in advance as part of the annual NRDP allocation in the
federal fiscal budget. Also, the long-standing practice of providing credit
subsidies through the use of partial monetary correction would be eliminated,
paving the way for future improvements in the official rural credit system.
3.11      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions recently agreed with
the Bank; (b) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating
banks to carry out the project's investment credit component; (c) each of the
participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and UT on
investment credit availability, demand and lending per Bank agency; and
(d) priority would be given by the participating banks to allocations from their
own resources of short-term production credit to their agencies serving the
project area in amounts adequate to finance the working capital requirements of
project beneficiaries (para. 4.01 (a)).
3.12      Marketing Services (3%).  This component is designed to increase the
farmers' knowledge of markets, product grading and prices, and improve the storage
and marketing of agricultural products. The project would include: (a) expansion
of the State-run marketing information system (SIMA); (b) rehabilitation of three
existing warehouses and expansion of a cold storage unit for potato seed
conservation; (c) production of improved seeds for a period of three years, to be
distributed to farmers on an exchange basis through cooperatives and farmers'
associations; (d) provision of equipment for crop classification; and
(e) introduction of a market promotion program for alternative crops. Ongoing
crop purchasing schemes would continue with Government support.
3.13      Support to Small Rural Communities (12%).  The objectives of this
component Are to help formal and informal groups of farmers participate in the
development of their communities. The component would include: (a) creation of a
community development (CD) fund of about US$11.3 million 'to make grants for local
subprojects; (b) purchase of office equipment; and (c) training and other
operating costs for about 23 community development agents. The UT would be
responsible for implementing the component and administering the CD fund.
Farmers' groups would identify, plan and execute subprojects that would finance
economic activities (such as fish ponds and cottage industries), community



- 12 -
infrastructure (such as laundry facilities, small irrigation and drainage schemes,
and storage facilities), and related training for community leaders. Written
proposals explaining objectives, benefits, implementation methodology and
cost-sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD fund
would be established and maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) no funds would be released to beneficiary groups prior to the signing of
the agreement between UT and the groups or between UT and the municipalities for
unregistered groups; and (c) by March 31, 1989, the Bank and UT would review
economic subprojects performance to establish the feasibility of carrying out
further funding of subprojects on a loan basis (para. 4.03 (c)).
3.14      Project Administration and Training (8%).  UT is now adequately staffed
at Headquarters and will progressively strengthen its regional offices (para.
2.15). All project-related training would be centrally coordinated by UT. The
training program would include management and technical training for executing
agency staff as well as training of farmers in all services provided under the
project. The project would finance salaries and related expenses for up
to 45 technicians and related support staff distributed between the Headquarters
and the six regional offices. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that satisfactory staffing of UT would be maintained (para. 4.03 (d)).
Land Tenure Impovmen
en~mrove nt
3.15      Land tenure improvement, through the provision of land titles or formal
usufruct rights to small farmers, is essential to the success of the proposed
project and would provide small farmers with access to institutionalized
imvestment credit. Land regularization and redistributton in the 96
municipalities would result from the cadastral activities carried out under the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR). Redistribution
targets, procedures for land acquisition, allotment, and selection of
beneficiaries were agreed upon as conditions for the regional land project.
Implementation of the land tenure project has been delayed due to organizational
changes within INCRA and the Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development (MIRAD).
The Bank, INCRA and other inolved Ministries recently agreed on the measures
needed to improve project implementation. They agreed on implementation
strategies, revised targets based on a two-year loan extension to be approved one
year at a time based on satisfactory project performance, new management
arrangements, and several amendments to the project's legal documents.  However,
basic project objectives and overall targets did not change. The reaching of
these targets by 1990 would secure access to land and credit for those project
beneficiaries who are currently landless. The Gcvernment has recently signed
these legal amendments to the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project and
project implementation is expected to accelerate in the coming months. During
negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that in the
project area: (a) at least 67,400 ha would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries by March 31, 1989; and (b) at least an additional 35,000 ha
would be available by March 31, 1990 (para. 4.02 .a)).



- 13 -
Project Organization and IMglementation
3.16      Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission (IC),
chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior (MINTER) and
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Land
Reform, Agriculture and Irrigation, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall
policy planning responsibility for NRDP. As regional coordinator of the NRDP,
SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of Support to Small Farmers receives policy
backing from a Regional Rural Development Council (RDC) which meets once a month
and includes representatives of federal agencies, the ten Northeastern States and
beneficiary groups.                                  e
3.17      State and Local Levels.  The State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor, with the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary and
with participation of representatives from SUDENE and the Secretaries of
Agriculture and Water Resources Development, would provide overall guidance for
project-supported rural development activities. The day-to-day project
implementation would be carried out by the executing agencies and coordinated by
UT, which has its own legal authority, budget, salary structure and administrative
personnel procedures. ThIe Bank has been provided with evidence that the planning,
budgeting, staffing and administration of all current federally-funded rural
programs in Paraiba have been unified under the coordination of UT.
3.18      Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the project implementation period.
Once the Federal Governuent has established overall funding availability for the
NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be established by SUDENE in
consultation with the RDC. UT would consolidate each executing agency's detailed
annual operating plans, ensure internal consistency and then submit them to SRDC
and SUDENE for approval. SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a regional
operating plan to be presented to the RDC and IC as the basis for the adminis-
trative regulation (poraria) signed by the various ministers involved, and
establishing budget allocations for each state. During negotiations, the Federal
Government provided assurances that: (a) the regional operating plan would be sent
each year to the Bank for comment prior to approval;, (b) the portaria, the final
regional operating plan and the State of Paraiba's operating plan would be sent to
the Bank not later than the first working day of each project fiscal year; and
(c) any proposed changes in planning and budgeting procedures would be submitted
to the Bank for comment prior to enactment (para. 4.01 (b)).
3.19      Accounts and Auditing.  Each participating agency, including the Central
Bank and participating banks, would maintain separate accounts for project
expenditures, to be audited annually by independent, private or public auditors
acceptable To the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments
provided assurances that: (a) the Special Account, the investment credit accounts,
and the project accounts, would be maintained and audited annually according to



- 14 -
practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference for the auditors would
include, Inter alia, verification of the Statements of Expenditure for the project
accounts; and (c) copies of the three audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each project fiscal year (para. 4.02 (b)).
3.20      Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between: (a) the State, through UT, and
the federal agencies involved; (b) executing agencies, with the participation of
USA, when more than one is involved in executing a project component; and (c) the
State, through UT or an executing agency, and the concerned municipality or group
prior to implementing a community subproject. These agreements would include
execution guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for
inter-agency collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance criteria.
During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that UT
would enter into all necessary agreements referred to in (a) and (b) above not
later than six months after loan signing (para. 4.02 (c)).
3.21      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have
simplified reporting requirements and would aim at providing accurate and timely
information for project management and annual planning. UT would receive monthly
reports from executing agencies on key physical and financial indicators, produce
quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries, and be responsible for the on-going
evaluation. Project evaluation would be the responsibility of a special unit
within UT but executed, under contract, by the State Agricultural Planning
Commission (CEPA-PB). During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that: (a) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not
later than three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; and (b)
terms of reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03 (e)).
Project Cost
3.22      Total project costs are estimated at US$123.9 million, with a foreign
exchange component of approximately US$15.1 million, or about 12% (see Loan and
Project Summary). The total cost is based on the assumption that all goods and
services would be acquired in Brazil, with the exception of some specialized
consultants' services. The cost estimate includes about US$4.6 million equivalent
in applicable local taxes. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 2%
and 5% of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to
baseline costs at 15% for irrigation and water supply construction, 10% for other
construction and contracted services, and 5% for equipment and furniture. Price
contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on international inflation
rates estimated at 3% for 1987, 1% for 1988 to 1990, and 3.5% p.a. thereafter. It
was assumed that periodic currency adjustments, estimated on a purchasing power
parity basis, would compensate for differences between projected US dollar
inflation and local inflation rates.



- 15 -
Financing Plan
3.23      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$60.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of taxes. The
proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and
41% of local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including three
years of grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The
loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil, which would carry the
foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to complete the
project. Budgeting procedures would be those described in para. 3.18. Funds
would be channelled from the Treasury through MINTER and SUDENE to either a
specific project account in the State for activities executed by State agencies,
or directly to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government
counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the
estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures. During negotiations, the Federal
Government provided assurances that the administrative regulation (portaria)
establishing these funding procedures would not be changed without Bank approval
(para. 4.01 (c)).
3,24      In August 1986, the Ba* and the Government reached an agreement that
has improved the timeliness and adequacy of counterpart funds. This agreement
includes: (a) the provision in the annual Federal Budget of the full amount
required for the execution of all the Northeast Rural Development projects;
(b) the monthly release of these resources in accordance with schedules and
amounts agreed upon with the Bank; and (c) the simplification of procedures for
channeling the released funds to the project executing units. As a result of this
agreement, counterpart funding has been, and continues to be, satisfactory.
Procurement
3.25      Civil works, estimated at US$15.5 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry that
is capable of carrying out project works. As individual construction works are
small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, but
would not be excluded from bidding. Some community development civil works
(para. 3.13) would be carried out by the beneficiaries under written agreements
with UT. Equipment and materials required by the project, totalling some US$2.8
million, almost all locally produced, would be procured by the several executing
agencies at various locations over the project implementation period, in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. Vehicles and microcomputers required by the project (amounting to
approximately US$4.8 million), as reserved procurement items, are not included in
the project costs and are not financed by the proposed loan. During negotiations,
the State Government provided assurances that those items would be procured in a
timely manner (para. 4.03 (f)). Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than
US$250,000, and goods and services contracts for more than US$100,000 would be
subject to prior Bank review of procurement documentation (about 70% and 40% of



- 16 -
the value of civil works, and goods and service&, respectively). Consultants'
services mainly for feasibility studies for future Irrigation projects, totalling
some 20 man-years equivalent, would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that they would follow the procurement arrangements outlined above and
summarized in the following table (para. 4.02 (d)).
Procurement Arranegemnts
(US$ million)
Type of                         Procurement Method                  Total
Project Expenditure          LCB         Other        NeA               Cost
Civil Works               15.5 (9.J)                                15.5 ( 9.2)
Equipment & Materials      2.8 (1.1)                                 2.8 ( 1.1)
Studies & Training                      4.0 (2.0)                    4.0 ( 2.0)
Rural Investment Credit                             37.7 (18.8)    37.7 (18.8)
Community Subprojects                               11.3 ( 7.8)    11.3 ( 7.8)
Salaries & Allowances                               38.6 (15.0)    38.6 (15.0)
Other Operating
Expenses                                          14.0 ( 6.1)    14.0 ( 6.1)
T 0 T A L               18.3 (10.3)  4.0 (2.0)  101.6 (47.7)   123.9 (60.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.26      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout the
eight and one-half year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resources development (or 100% of foreign expenditures
for consultants' services for irrigation works) and support to small communities,
and at a rate of 50% against expenditures made for marketing and credit.
Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high share of recurrent
costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project expenditures until aggregate
amounts of US$2.2 million for agricultural research, US$6.6 million for extension,
US$2.0 million for administration, and US$0.3 million for training have been
disbursed. Thereafter, disbursements for those categories would be made at a rate
of 30% of project expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$2.5 for agricultural
research, US$8.1 million for extension, US$2.2 million for administration, and
US$0.4 million for training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these
categories would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable project executing
agencies to prepare for an early start of project execution, project expenditures
(except agricultural credit) incurred prior to loan signing, but after December
18, 1986 (end of project appraisal), would be eligible for reimbursement up to
about US$3.0 million equivalent. Disbursement projections reflect the
disbursement profile for previous rural development projects in Brazil.



- 17 -
3.27      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical assistance
expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of Expenditure prepared
by the various executing agencies and certified by UT. Supporting documentation
would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made available during project
supervision. Standard documentation for contracts exceeding US$250,000 would be
submitted to the Bank. To reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special
Account would be opened and thereafter maintained in US dollars in the Central
Bank with an initial deposit of US$2.8 million. Withdrawals in cruzados from the
Special Account, supported by Statements of Expenditure and other required
documentation, would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date of
the expenditure.
Project Benefits and Justification
3.28      Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project on
agricultural production would result from increased productivity (through better
cultivation practices, including pest and disease control, increased use of animal
traction, and irrigation), crop diversification, and expansion of the cropped
area. The annual value of incremental marketable production at full development
is expected to be US$24.7 million, at November 1986 farmgate prices.
Approximately 95% of this amount would come from crops and 5% from livestock
products. This is not expected to lead to marketing constraints as Paraiba's
present production, with the exception of cotton and beef, does not meet demand.
Production surpluses would be marketed through existing public and private
channels. Improved water supply systems and community activities would also
provide substantial benefits to the population, especially women. Expanded
agricultural activities would create employment equivalent to some 9,600 mau-years
annually. Improved farming practices and soil and water conservation would have a
beneficial impact on the environment. Estimated financial rates of return for the
seven illustrative farm models range from 15% to 69%. All project beneficiaries
belong to the poverty group. Net annual family farm benefits, which currently
range from US$300 to US$1,000, would increase at full development to a range of
US$900 to US$2,800, in constant terms.
3.29      Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.  Although it is not Government policy
to obtain full cost recovery on rural programs for low-income families, current
legislation allows SRH to recover 100% of operation and maintenance costs based on
a volumetric annual charge for water, and 100% of public investments in common
irrigation and drainage infrastructure, based on a per hectare charge, over a
50-year period. The initial investment is revalued but without charging
interest4/. The municipalities would cover the costs of operation and
maintenance of the water supply services until the Northeast Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Program begins in 1989; at that stage, consumers would be expected
4/ For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects, see
Brazil: Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, SAR (Buff Cover
Report No. 5975-BR), dated May 12, 1986.



- 18 -
to pay for the service.   During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes would
be implemented in accordance with Government legislation satisfactory to the Bank;
and (b) drinking water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance
costs would begin to be charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 4.03 (g)).
3.30      Additional recurrent costs to the Government of about US$2.5 million
annually to sustain the project following the investment period are expected to be
offset by additional fiscal revenues of about US$4.5 million annually generated by
the value-added tax on product circulation (ICM) that would apply to the
incremental marketable production.
3.31      Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return for the project has been
estimated at 14%. The cost and benefit streams are detailed in Annex 3.
Sensitivity tests show that, when project benefits fall by 28%, or project costs
rise by over 39%, the rate of return falls to the 11% opportunity cost of
capital. A lag of three years in achieving project benefits, such as might occur
during a severe drought, would result in an 11% rate of return.
Project Risks
3.32      Although projects under the NRDP are simpler in design than previous
rural development projects, efficient delivery of project services and
irterinstitutional cooperation would still be important for project success.
The project includes improved monitoring and evaluation to foster a more efficient
institutional environment. Delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding and rural
credit could decrease the proposed project's impact. Recent changes in funding
procedures, the merging of the rural special programs, the regional scope of the
Northeast Rural Development Program, of which the project is a part, and the broad
support which the program enjoys among Government and local leaders, should help
the project receive adequate funding. At the farm level, the security of land
tenure is still a problem; implementation of the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and the Government's agrarian reform should
help minimize this risk. Many farmers are dependent on cotton as a main cash
crop, and as such are vulnerable to pest outbreaks. The project has been designed
to minimize this risk by increasing the focus on pest and disease control, on crop
diversification through technology generation and diffusion, and on water
resources development.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) for rural credit: (i) lending terms and conditions would be those
recently agreed between the Bank and the Government; (ii) the Central



- 19 -
Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks to carry
out the project's investment credit component; (iii) each of the
participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and UT
on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank agency;
and (iv) priority would be given by the participating banks to
allocations from their own resources of short-term production credit to
their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to finance
the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries (para. 3.11).
(b) (i) the regional operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank for
comment prior to approval; (ii) the portaria, the final regional
operating plan and the State of Paraiba's operating plan, would be sent
to the Bank not later than the first working day of each project fiscal
year; and (iii) any proposed changes in planning and budgeting
procedures would be submitted to the Bank prior to enactment (para.
3.18); and
(c)  the administrative regulation (portaria) establishing funding procedures
would not be changed without Bank approval (para. 3.23).
4.02      During negotiations, both the Federal and State Governments provided
assurances that:
(a) at least 67,400 ha by March 31, 1989, and an additional 35,000 ha by
March 31, 1990, would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries in the project area (para. 3.15);
(b)  (i) the Special Account, the investment credit accounts, and the project
accounts would be maintained and audited annually according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors would
include, inter alia, verification of the Statements of Expenditure for
the project accounts; and (iii) copies of the three audit reports would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year(para. 3.19);
(c) all necessary operating agreements would be entered into no later than
six months after loan signature (para. 3.20); and
(d) procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.25.
4.03      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that:
(a) satisfactory staffing of a private irrigation coordinating unit, a
directorate of planning, and a field management unit would be maintained
(para. 3.06);
(b) The State Executive Commission for Pest Control would coordinate with
the Ministry of Agriculture to ensure that the State extension and



- 20 -
research annual work programs are consistent with the National Program
for the Control of the Cotton Pest (para. 3.08);
(c)  (i) the Community Development Fund would be established and maintained
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (1i) no funds would
be released prio. to a written agreement between UT and the groups or
between UT and the municipalities; and (iii) by March 31, 1989, the Bank
and UT would review the economic subprojects' performance to establish
the feasibility of carrying out further funding of subprojectson a loan
basis (para. 3.13);
(d)  the satisfactory staffing of UT would be maintained (para. 3.14);
(e)  (i) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no later than
three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; and
(ii) terms of reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.21); and
(f)  vehicles and microcomputers necessary for project implementation would
be procured in a timely manner (para. 3.25);
(g)  (i) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes would be
implemented in accordance with Government legislation; and (ii) drinking
water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance costs would
begin to be charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 3.29).
4.04      A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Bank be provided
with evidence of the creation and satisfactory staffing of: (a) a private
irrigation coordinating unit, within the Secretariat of Agriculture; and
(b) a planning unit and a field management unit, within the Secretariat of Water
Resources (para. 3.06).
4.05      A condition of disbursement for loan proceeds financing the construction
of each public irrigation scheme, to be implemented in the second and subsequent
years, would be that the Bank has: (a) received proof of acquisition of the land
required for irrigation schemes; and (b) approved the detailed engineering designs
and settlement plans (para. 3.06).
4.06      Any loan proceeds allocated for the construction of public irrigation
schemes would be cancelled if not committed: by September 30, 1989 for the first
three schemes; by September 30, 1990 for the fourth and fifth schemes; and by
September 30, 1991 for the sixth such scheme (para. 3.06).
4.07      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for Bank loan of US$60.0 million equivalent, with a term of 15
years, including a three-year grace period*



ANNEX 1
- 21-                       Page I of 9
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Project Descrption
A. Land Tenure and Agricultural Production
1.        About 951 of the project area's 107,000 farma are smaller than
100 ha, yet they account for only 33% of the total farm area. Furthermore,
about 44% of the small farms (less than 100 ha) are worked by farmers
without legal titles to their land (Table 1.1). About 70% of these
producers work on rainfed farms that are smaller than 10 ha; they are,
however, responsible for two-thirds of the State'3 basic food production.
2.        Paraiba has an overall deficit of basic foodcrops and livestock
products, such as rice, beans, maize, beef and milk, pork and fish. It is
a net exporter of sugar, cassava, coconut, pineapple, and sisal; since the
boll weevil infestation, it is no longer an exporter of cotton. In 1984,
the State's gross agricultural product was distributed as follows:
60% for crop production, and 40% for livestock production (mainly from
big-size farms).
B. Project Area
3.        For ,ilanning purposes, the State Secretariat of Planning
(SEPLAN-PB) has divided Paraiba into nine regions. Out of these nine
regions, the State selected six:  litoral, agreste, brejo, Cariris da
Princesa, alto sertao, and baixo sertao as high priority areas for
development. These six regions include 114 municipalities out of which 96
were selected (Table 1.4). The objective of the selection was to
accelerate development in those municipalities where small farmers and
basic fooderop production predominate, and where there is still
considerable underdeveloped agricultural potential and a need for improved
services. The regions selected have also been partly subject to prior
cadastral and land titling operations and would receive priority attention
under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project. Three of the
six priority regions have, until recently, benefitted from rural
development projects and would become an integral part of the NRDP.



-22 -                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
Water Resources Development
4.        The state-managed public irrigation activities would include the
construction of the following schemes: Juru (218 ha); Saco Nova Olinda
(800 ha), Pianco (600 ha), Escondido (135 ha), Carneiro (450 ha), and
Capoeira (675 ha), totalling 2,878 hectares. In all six schemes, some 957
farm families would benefit. In addition, about 6,000 ha of private
irrigation financed under the rural inestment credit component is expected
to benefit 3,500 farm families. The execution of the public irrigation
component would be carried out by the Secretariat of Water Resources (SRH)
which would be strengthened under the project. At the State level, a plan-
ning unit would be created and managed under the responsibility of SRH.
Mtoreover, SRH would set up a field management unit in the sertao region.
The creation and satisfactory staffing of these three units would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.04). The planning unit would be
responsible for planning and coordinating irrigation activities, elaborat-
ing further feasibility studies, preparing engineering designs and carrying
out civil works (usually by contractors), supervising, executing settlement
programs jointly with EMATER-PB, managing the irrigation schemes during the
first three years, collecting water charges and providing technical
assistance to farmers in hydro-agronomic practices.  EMATER-PB would be
responsible for all agronomic technical assistance to farmers in public
irrigated schemes as well as to those undertaking private irrigation. For
private irrigation, a special coordinating unit would be created within the
Secretariat of Agriculture. The project would also finance the acquisition
by the State of external technical services during the first three years of
project implementation, to provide SRH with specialized assistance in
project implementation and irrigation scheme management.
5.        There would be no construction of public irrigation schemes
during the first year of the project. The construction of the six
irrigation subprojects would follow a phased schedule: three schemes would
start in FY89, two in FY90, and one in FY92. Disbursement of loan proceeds
would be contingent on proof of land acquisition and Bank approval of
engineering designs and settlement plans (para. 4.05), with staggered
partial cancellations if funds were not committed (para. 4.06). Cost
recovery provisions would be implemented for public irrigation schemes in
accordance with Government legislation.



- 23-                      ANNEX 1
Page 3 Of 9
6.        Collective investment costs, including pumping equipment,
pipelines, sprinklers, canals and drains range from US$2,150/ha for Juru
(river pumping with gravity irrigation) to US$5,250/ha for Escondido (river
pumping with gravity irrigation). On-farm works, averaging about
US$560/ha would be financed to the beneficiaries through rural investment
credit.
7.        Under the public irrigation subcomponent, the project would also
finance identification and preparation of future projects (to be financed
under the subsequent NRDP phase) as follows: reconnaissance and basic
studies for 16,000 km2, feasibility studies for 6,000 ha, and engineering
designs for 1,500 ha.
8.        The domestic water supply subcomponent would consist of the
construction and rehabilitation of 110 simple water supply systems with
bore-holed wells, benefiting some 8,250 families (41,250 people). This
subcomponent is only expectd to be financed for the first two years, as
this action would later be funded by the Bank-financed Northeast Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation (NRWSS) Project that is currently under
preparation. Each simple water supply system would include a well or
surface source, pumping equipment, a transmission line, a storage tank,
laundry facilities, and one or more stindpipes that would serve from 40 to
100 families. Water supply systems would be designed for an average flow
of 30 liters per capita per day.
9.        Planning, supervision, and monitoring of the water supply
subcomponent would be carried out by SRH. Contractors would be responsible
for the construction of the water supply systems. Selection criteria for
communities would include village size, per capita investment costs,
location (preference would be given to areas where population density is
highest) and community willingness to gradually assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance. During a transition period until the NRWSS
becomes effective, the municipalities and the State would assist the
communities in meeting operating expenses. SRH would discuss the location
of the wells and standpipes with the recipients and the municipal
authorities before installation of the sytems; it would also provide
technical backstopping and training to the community.
10.       The fisheries subcomponent would consist of: (a) improving the
existing fish hatchery at Itaporanga to reach at full development a total
annual production of 5 million fingerlings to be distributed among 2,300
farm families; (b) establishing eight pilot fishponds for demonstration
purposes; and (c) providing technical assistance on fishery operation,
benefiting 750 farmers.



-24 -                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
11.       SRH, which has initiated fisheries activity, with funds and
technical assistance provided by the Hungarian bilateral aid, would
implement the project's fisheries subcomponent. Fishing in the public
reservoirs by the communities living nearby would be monitored and
controlled to maintain production levels. Starting in Year 4, sales of
fingerlings would allow the operation and maintenance costs to be fully
recovered at full development.
Agricultural Research and Seed Production
12.       The state research program has developed during the past ten
years and will continue to develop technical recommendations to improve
agricultural productivity. However, there is a recognized need to redirect
this research program towards adoption of low-cost technology (including
pest control programs, for cotton in particular), to adapt farmers'
technology to drought conditions. The project would finance: (a) three
natural resources studies to assist in future research planning; (b) about
180 applied research trials to be carried out at experiment stations to
improve production technology; (c) establishment and monitoring of about
30 observation farms to test and adapt integrated farm production tech-
nology; (d) annual production of about 50 tons of basic seeds (rice, maize,
beans, sorghum and cotton) for multiplication; (e) annual production and
distribution of about 1,000,000 fruit-tree seedlings; and (f) production
and distribution of animal breeding stock (1,400 goats and 1,100 sheep),
benefiting 2,600 farmers.
13.       The implementing agency would be the State Agricultural Research
Company (EMEPA). Technical supervision, training, coordination with
research programs in other States and review of annual plans would be the
responsibility of the Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the
Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA), which is receiving support for these activities
under the first Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 2523-BR). EMEPA
would develop the research, in cooperation with both farmers and extension
officers, and appraise both technical and economic results from farm-level
observation units. Cooperating farmers, who have observation units on
their farms, would contribute to the investments (mostly in the form of
labor). Once the results of these observation units have been proven, they
would be diffused among farmers through demonstration plots under the aegis
of EMATER-PB. EMEPA would expand the existing program to produce basic
seeds of major crops: rice, beans, maize, sorghum, and cotton. The
project would finance investment costs for infrastructure, agricultural
equipment and recurrent costs. The basic seed produced would be sold to
cooperatives and farmers for multiplication or be used for EHEPA's own
production of certified seed under rainfed or irrigated conditions. The
certified seed would be processed by EMEPA and marketed through the



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
existing CIDAGRO and/or by cooperative networks (Annex 1, paras. 18 and
22).  The goats, mostly milk goats, and sheep produced in EIMPA's breeding
centers would be distributed by EKATER-PB to selected producers; these
beneficiaries would return to EMEPA an equivalent number of animals in the
succeeding years, to be passed on to other candidates.
Rural Extension
14.       ENATER-PB is currently providing technical assistance to some
31,000 small farmers throughout the State, of which about 7,000 are under
the former Bank-assisted Brejo Project (Loan 1537-BR). Overstaffed with a
total work force of 833, of which 30X is in the State capital, EMATER-PB
will need to improve its planning and supervisory activities as well as
intensify the trainuig of its technical staff. Under the proposed project,
the extension service would be expanded to reach about 37,800 farm families
at full development. This represents about 372 of the 100,000 small
farmers in the project area. The project would finance: (a) the
establishment and maintenance of about 150 demonstration plots annually;
(b) salaries and other operating costs for, at full development, 260
agricultural and social extension agents (two agricultural agents for every
social extension agent), 30 subject-matter specialists, and 130
administrative staff; (c) annual production of about 500,000 tree-crop
seedlings for 1,600 beneficiaries; (d) the implementation of a cotton pest
control program for 7,700 farmers; and (e) project-related training for
extensionists and farmers.
15.       EMATER-PB field staff within the 96 project municipalities would
be organized into 6 regional and 86 local offices. Most supervisory
personnel and subject-matter specialists would be located in regional
offices or in Joao Pessoa and would travel 50% of the time to supervise
local extension agents. At field level, each extension agent would assist
on a fixed schedule six to eight groups of 20-25 farmers organized around
contact farmers and demonstration plots. The ratio of agricultural
extension agents to farm families, presently very low, would improve
gradually from Year 1 to Year 8 of the project, according to the three
following patterns: (a) for rainfed farmers: from 1.:180 to 1:300;
(b) for cotton growers who will need to receive intensive support for the
implementation of pest control technology: from 1:100 to 1:250; and
(c) for farmers who will benefit from irrigation: from 1:50 to 1:100.
Social extension workers, cooperating in teams with agricultural
extensionists, would work with farm families to improve sanitation, child
care, family nutrition, small animal husbandry and vegetable gardening.
Specialists from the Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension (ERBIATER) would supervise ENATER-PB at least once a month.
In-service training for extension staff would include assistance from EMEPA
and the Federal Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA) through CPATSA.



ANNEX 1
- 26 -                     Page 6 of 9
16.       Extension activities would encourage adoption of simple, low-cost
practices which would improve crop yields, preserve soil fertility, expand
the cultivated area and increase livestock production. Many practices to
reach these objectives are already proven; they include: (a) increased use
of animal traction to achieve better land preparation and improve labor
productivity; (b) increased use of improved seeds; (c) contour ploughing
and more appropriate crop rotations to improve water and soil conservation;
(d) improved weed, pest and disease control; (e) increased use of
drought-resistant perennial crops; (f) improved animal husbandry;
(g) improved pastures and cultivated forage crops; and (h) development of
new casherops to replace cotton in some subareas.
17.       Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for the
implementation of the social forestry activities aimed at producing some
500,000 seedlings annually for farmers to plant fuelwood, timber, fruit and
fodder trees. Small nurseries would be installed at the village and farm
level, and EMATER-PB technical staff would be specifically trained in
seedling production, distribution, and wood lot management.
Marketing Services
18.       The marketing component is designed to increase the farmers'
knowledge of markets and prices, improve storage facilities and the timely
provision of agricultural inputs (potato seeds and certified seeds), and
seek new markets for alternative crops replacing cotton. A Marketing Fund
(FINACOM) grouping ongoing Government schemes, such as Minimum Price Scheme
(CEP) and the Advance Purchase of Farmers' Surpluses (CAP), would be
established, but without Bank support.
19.       The Marketing Information Service (SIMA) is an ongoing activity
carried out under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture. It provides
farmers with timely advice on local and regional prices, storage
facilities, transport, and selling options. The project would support the
installation of three local SIMA offices through the financing of staff
salaries, vehicles and office equipment. Data would be collected at
markets and disseminated by radio and printed bulletins.
20.       Storage Facilities.  The project would rehabilitate and equip
three existing warehouses (minimarkets) for a total capacity of 1,500
tons. The storage facilities would be operated by CIDAGRO. In addition,
the project would double the 1,000-ton capacity of the existing cold
storage rooms at Esperanca, which are being used for conservation of potato
seeds; these facilities are operated by the Brazilian Storage Company
(CIBRAZEM) which would also be responsible for staff training (costs
included under the training component). For both types of facilities,



-27-                    ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
users would be expected to pay average CIBRAZEM-established tariffs based
on weight, ad valorem and handling charge.
21.       Marketing  Fund.  The Marketing Fund (para. 19) would be entirely
financed by the  Government and would include:
(a) the advance purchase of farmers' surpluses (CAP) program (about
US$2.1 million) under the responsibility of CIDAGRO;
(b) the minimum price scheme (CEP) program (about US$2.3 million) for
about 17,000 producers, or 45% of the project beneficiaries, to
be executed under the responsibility of CIDAGRO; and
(c) working capital for a stock of agricultural inputs (fertilizers,
pesticides, etc.) for about US$5.9 million, to be used under the
responsibility of CIDAGRO.
22.       Certified Seed Production and Marketing.  Certified seeds (2,340
tons of seeds plus 6,000 tons of potato seed) would be produced by EMEPA on
its research stations as well as by selected farmers. They would then be
distributed to farmers, through CIDAGRO, cooperatives and other farmers'
associations, on an exchange basis. In order to support the program, the
Project would finance, during the first three years, the production,
storage and transport costs.
23.       Crop Classification.  The project would finance some farm-product
grading equipment for CIDAGRO's buying posts to expand the CEP program.
CIDAGRO is assisting farmers in classifying and grading fruits, vegetables
and grain.
24.       Market Studies.  Many small farmers who used to grow cotton have
abandoned the crop since the boll weevil infestation. New casherops
would be promoted as an alternative source of income for the farmers.
Marketing conditions for these crops are little known and would have to be
explored by CIDAGRO. These studies will be performed by the "Fundacao Joao
Pinheiro" under the supervision of SUDENE.
Support to Small Rural Communities (SSRC)
25.       The objectives of the SSRC component are to help formal and
informal groups of farmers participate in their own development by:
(a) providing them with a system whereby they select, plan, implement,
manage and monitor local development projects suited to their own needs;
(b) safeguarding their own interests through group representation; and
(c) enabling them to Improve their economic base through organizing joint



-28-                        ANNEX I
Page 8 of 9
resources for increased production. In order to carry out these
objectives, the component would include: (a) creation of a community grant
fund of US$11.3 million to finance local development projects; (b) purchase
of equipment; and (c) training, salaries and related operatilng costs
for about 18 community development agents and 5 technicians at central
level. About 45,000 families in the project area would benefit directly or
indirectly as a result of thle local development projects (LDPs).
26.       The Community Development (CD) fund would finance three
categories of LDPs: (a) economically based LDPs (representing in total at
least 60% of the fund), such as cottage industries, building of fish ponds,
and small animal production schemes; (b) community infrastructural LDPs
(representing at least 25% of the fund), such as construction of communal
laundry facilities, small irrigation and drainage schemes, and repair of
small access roads; and (c) community organization LDPs (representing
not more than 15% of the fund), such as training group leaders and giving
legal assistance for land tenure matters. Guidelines have been established
to help select LDPs:
(a) LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and
would include objectives, justification, expected benefits,
method of implementation, cost sharing (groups would
participate with about 15% of cost), and monitoring and
evaluation;
(b) the fund would not finance subprojects funded by other
proJect components or the construction of schools, health
posts, roads, or rural electrification;
(c) the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs; and
(d) the group would be solely responsible for the management and
administration of the LDPs that should attempt to benefit
the community and eventually become self sustaining.
27.       UT would be responsible for the implementation of the SSRC.  It
would recruit 18 full-time CD agents who would be university graduates.
These agents, each one covering three municipalities, would stimulate
community organizations and assist in the formulation of group requests for
LDPs. Group requests would then be submitted to Municipal Councils for
discussion, analysis, evaluation, and approval. Municipal Council members
would be elected by village, and each village would send two representa-
tives to the Council. The relevant CD agent and regional coordinators from
UT would also participate in the analysis and evaluation of group
requests. UT could reverse the Municipal Council's recommendation if it



ANNEX 1
- 29 -                       Page 9 of 9
does not conform with the stated guidelines, or postpone funding if funds
have been exhausted for the current fiscal year.
28.       Disbursements would be made by installments, and progress in
implementation would be supervised by the CD agent. In the case of a
legally registered association or group, disbursements would be made
directly to the group through a bank account. In the case of an
unregistered group, the agreement would be signed by the municipality or
other designated institution on behalf of the group, and funds would be
channeled through the municipality or the designated institution. At
present, all funds would be disbursed on a grant basis; but by March
31, 1989, UT and the Bank would review the experience on the
economicallybased LDPs to study the possibility of carrying out further CD
fund operations on a loan basis.
29.       Monitoring and evaluation of the LDPs would be extremely
important to both the groups themselves and the development of the SSRC
component itself. During the preparation of a group request, the CD agent
and the group would determine the procedures required for monitoring and
evaluation. As a participatory effort, monitoring and evaluation would:
(a) increase the awareness and commitment within the community; (b) allow
findings to be fed back immediately to the group; and (c) as an ongoing
process, give the CD agent a closer understanding of the project and of the
community's evolution.



- 30 -                                   A
Tde11
NASFm AL 11EVMM  KM
N?M MIW       L F VEAW TW PRl D  - PARAIBA
Stnx*  at 1w.!1W In the !D~ An
--   -fanir dvth lessta 11-00 bao)  --
Ne of                          b. of Farns                 TotalbN.   Toa lN.    Z of
Agraecolgical   |              ,             ,                of Fams         of       Laxlleas
Sulb-area      | less 10 ha      10-80 ha  |80-100 ha   less 100 hb    Farm          Farmers
I    Sertoes
- Alto Sertao     5158           6372           1590         13120       14298          29
- Bado Sertao    7514            8749           2242         18505       21110          31
Carris da        9577           6723            911         17211       17053          40
I     Brejo           9141            820            113         10074       10292          51
M      Areste          2406           2231            329         26620       27193          53
'IV    LIoral        14641          2117            227         16985       17312          53
TOTAL              70091         27012           5412        102515      107258          44
Soirce: MM - CAP Northeast Program for Support of nala Farmsrs,
Volme 2 - Project Bakgoud Analysis.



- 31-                                   ANEKX 1
Table 1.2
lA2IL
NaFEAS! RUAL MV0rM PWCr - PARAIBA
Ruvdid:i of fate hAgrlaateml PmOizcti.
1970                                   1979
Crop               Area          Yield        Prodcton         Area        Yield   Production
(ha)        (kg/ha)         (toi)          (ha)       (kg/ha)    (tow)
Sesicatton
(perennlal)         407,653          11           45,308      467,299        104       49,033
Seedcotton
(anoial)             73,328          386           29,505      132,656        497       65,962
Supo=n1              43,519       42,008        1,828,169       97,490    49,103   4,787,121
Beam                 136,262         302           41,151      220,472        257       56,661
maize                176,783          418           73,895     278,863        402      112,102
Cassava               52,511       10,383         545,206       63,255      8,414      532,227
Banana                 8,368       2,050            17,157       8,288      1,961       16,260
Rice (paddy)          19,407          529           10,275      15,543        695       10,735
Tcmatoes                  97       10,969            1,064       1,347    31,130        41,945
Pineq)ple             5,087        13,494          68,642        6,764    18,277       123,627
Sisal                 55,591        1,399          77,800      104,213        986      122,817
Potatoes               2,624        1,578           4,140          769      4,509        3,468
Source: DE - Statistical Yearly BulItim.



NORKDWAS RL4 UKNWY PFG
NOWZ P=  XWAL 1EVfLCSB1 PED=  - PAEAIM
ftm1.~ Are and lefIdur   Uutrflad
mL S1P:E                             W    _A                            I
C    SEAS               ND. f                               lb. of                         Total Fas        r Project    As % d
ties  nLmi Area Popqatlon         lit        Area Population less than BI/itary  Total
062)                              (b2)                100 ba 1b
ABUA I
Sertma                57           16,593      558,800     33          12,021   399,920     31,625       11,800       31
Cai  da dPrinoesa      10           3,225      116,000      10          3,225   116,000      17,211       5,C0XX      29
Sodd                  12                                    _            -         _           -           _           _
Sub-total         79                                   43          15,246   53,820      48,836       16,*80
AM II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cad-r do Paratib       14
N1dio Paraibs          12
Qdrii two              7 __        ___        __ __                                  ___ 
Sub-total          33
Drejo                 21            3,119      325,550     21           3,119   325,550      10,074       7,500       74
Agrte                  17           2,623      199,180      17          2,623   199,180     26,620        8,000       30
Utoral                 20           5,086      383,783      15          4.582   295,090      16.985       5.5CO       33
Sub-total         58                                   53         10,324   819,820      53,679      21,000
T 0 T A L                170          56,372    2,700,176     96          25,570 1,323,640    102,515       37,800       37
1/ From n     1, Tible 1.1
FIBE, Ceimu MO8



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
af-le 1.4
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Llat of Mhnicpalities In the Prolect Area
Name of
Agroecological
Sub-area               Municipality
Litoral
1. Alhandra
2. Caapora
3. Conde
4. Itapororaca
5. Jacarau
6. Lucena
7. Mataraca
8. Mamanguape
9. Mari
10. Pedra de Fogo
11. Pitimbu
12. Rio Tinto
13. Sape
14. Santa Rita
15. Joao Pessoa
Agreste
1. Aracagi
2.  Belem
3. Caicara
4. Caldas Brandao
5. Duas Estradas
6. Gurinhem
7. Inga
8. Itabaiana
9. Itatuba
10. Juarez Tavora
11. Lagoa de Dentro
12. Mogeiro
13. Mulungu
14. Pilar
15. Salgado de Sao Felix
16. Serra da Raiz
17. Serra Redonda



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.4
Page 2
BreJo
1. Areia
2. Arara
3. Alagos Nova
4. Alagoinha
5. Alagoa Grande
6. Areial
7. Bananeiras
8. Borborema
9. Cuitegi
10. Esperanca
11. Guarabira
12. Lagoa Seca
13. Montadas
14. Puxinana
15. Piloes
16. Piloezinho
17. Pirpirituba
18. Remigio
19. Solanea
20. Sao Sebastiao da Lagoa de Roca
21. Serraria
Cariris da Princesa:
1. Agua Branca
2. Desterro
3 * Imaculada
4. Juru
5. Manaira
6. Mae D'Agua
7. Princesa Isabel
8. Sao Jose do Bonfim
9. Tavares
10. Teixeira



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Table 14
Page 3
Sertoes
a) Zona Nortet
1. Antenor Navarro
2. Lastro
3. Lagoa
4. Naaarorlaho
5. Paullsta
6. Poabal
7. Riacho dos Cavalos
8. Sao Bento
9.  Santa Cru
10. Sousa
11   Beles do Brejo do Crux
12. Brejo do Crus
13. Boa Sucesso
14. Brejodos Santos
15. Catole do Rocha
16.. Jertco
b) Zona Zul:
1. BOnlto de Santa Pe
2. Boa Ventura
3. Conceicao
4. Curtal Volho
5. Diamanto
6. Ibiara
7.  Monte liorebo
8. Podra Branca
9. Serra Graude
10. Sao Jose do Calana
11.  Sautan  do Ma'guetra
12. Boquetrao dos Cochos
13.  Itaporana
14. Nova Olinda
15. Pianco
16. Santana dos Garrotes
17. Olho d'Agua



s.e.s.  ......... ......... .s...... ...s... ......... .................. ........ sSsaS
113118s   338Is  111588l  0-93118   ,l 51* 181guru    VWti   68'1818    1068                                                            Sau Wnmi     Iwm m11m *3336  8380
ae*-u    SUe *' 6'   sw    g'   sa- t*' i-r    sw                                                                                             swami i"1  ^lw
Simi    sUs         wst        i V Wss el                  I"        0-1       0..119 S*-
._.__.__._.......................................... _
135       118      138       #1s%t2_* S'O$lO     1181l    8161. . 30t    01*"_ meain
8  a-aug   *'      c-gast     a-oe     seas      g-s   ew            corns     84861                                      - U I5136                      , smq : _
Iws smlcelm s.  awl   *,ml   Vowe                          s-ulsa   9 OU          u'I s"1                                        81811331133011 "Oft.9W
|  'U*'t t-" *ttt sw t-U lStt t l-O'm                                                               . 11_ 3-
__ .___....... ..  ....  .w......     _. _ .....  .......... .__.... _. .__. ___...... ._.___.......... ...  
Sw        -        11   -33            03 $  11    * 6               @6s 16    V1                                                      181134 s13183
*13h  sia3  OU    ewus  awe  g.grg  18611  owl,46    VAGI;                                                     mnisam U   tmu
%-l t                                                                         blgl %-       '  2 lU   '"   U ,_Lll  I_S  1z11
-a- @t   ;t  7g uimit 141                                                        I
el1,158    v 151   5868      0)3       11m,8  4118    451411   Oval   11Ko'                                                        368613 IN
_   ___    ._.  _ ____...._..     .... .._   .... ...   .........  ........ .  .. .. .  .........   ........
Saul   o       swng      amg      teat      8161o    31411111*1           31 6641                                 usuu-an SC311113   m
~~~~~~~~~~. ... .... .-....
0161  .  -  -   ac&      611       1118      0118                                                       33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.11 3361111 NM8
11       aVI 66VI 1)1t 381             833       8           1118    S S1      111                                       s I              ussns  .  
......... ........ .. ...... ...... ........  ...... s..:..... ......... .........55555
I I'm        Ol4365ga pe 11r      VW/l   gu/As                                                                                         US/0I66/U  S6/16415/1
a's            SU *               @S S   -                                                                        $3             SI@
Vga    U   *Xg    I          I"        I Um      I vu   * lu         4-00   * 'O                                       WW     W91F  41 GM  St2_
t l"%    t  9 lac            -4"U 1161    11$9     * `91   U0        t in       sla                        .1m                                sot  wi "100s1
V101111-9                     tst      -Ut    t vt         '   o  Ut  G't      V11                                            m_aX  Jo wit1"
____..........  ___ ......... ........____ .........  _ ____ ___.__,____.. ..... ....... .. .__. ..... .. . ...... .. .........._  
ol t                                               lo -      VA -= t  *-t  *1SV tG   w                                                              SI
-Um't  alo-             - b -t        -'I*       -30       -'        I "lv     c *4I11S t                                                      01 SO1
S-ta  11I UU AMs'"           -SIM      A '"-0 #'Su         CM *      cla' s 's   A'Sl "                                             go11""o 111t
.                                      _  ~~~~~~~~~~~... ..... ..... . ...... _ . ... .
YuIvEv4-L" U flNd LUNIlU'IIAU iVII n5YuW.U
z              mMcal"V11/111 I611/014  "aGms imww
on "a
wM-__   _ _ 1VA110fla
~~~I  93ao-v, 30ii0



I_~~~~~~~xo             a     I D |             at     |    X    ! t  SOC          UZ                        m               3=  vr     P s
IIW 0       Goa01   661    _     o9          Lo tt                                                          1 _Lott  Olt  O0  IDA= 
,K    rig      SIVS        6-1    '     IL         til           _           -0       6%           l'     t      -9           a
I  -0                                                  -           --1 Got                                                              DtP 
at   too   it1 I1                                  At <-S0 CO                         coZt        Il                 MTw4a
WI   0~    01  UI       1                       '91LLC0.C00U9. too                                                        ZI %*nol Mm OL
II1-                0*1         6_0                                             91 t_ 
90K    s    PS                101          tolLtG ot                                     001           LIST              1A=  ~ W    = .3
9  *1  S-10 G0 too                                                                             t0                       a 
Q 0Om   Ia t              -9 L            t     _-_                                               9*9           5?                f     e1nl Is
m1 
tggi  C S        W    --            1*0          -1t         5.5        C'?1'                 0-t           L'SI
^     Ct t    G           11                              t-ll                     0O                                                         st t0l  '3-  s
'~~    i    ii    :  Pt~~~90           cl lo                                                                    OI 6011                   me,s  go
lltC   31   IIC   L'Lt                                             L*5                                                            h1_   *Jm.
to o-                                                    9-0                                                    oa0 6l  1-0-  t 
n . zs tt s Z*l t*~~~~~~~~~90                                                                                m*s-0  l% '
0.31                                                                                         0'?!              4aR inUU 1 'Vb 
900                                    Vo                                          sevo~~~~~~~~~~~~mm  Om. 1
0*0                                                                                          OMt                 J      If -ne te
mama mwjwma warn   -m                                           ~ l 0
a                                                              *
. ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ v" .                                         .nu    ,WN     WM
_  X  M_  1 t_ a tlP , &} _ bptsm                                 m



- 38 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 1.7
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Betleated Scbedule of leak DiJhuteut.
(US$ million)
Bank                    Disbursement  Cumulative Disbursement    Balance
Fiscal     Quarter        during
Year       Ending         Quarter       Amount       Z of Total     Loan
1987   June 30, 1987
1988   Sept.30, 1987
Dec. 31, 1987         2.8         2.8 1/       4             57.2
Mar. 31, 1988         1.0         3.8                        56.2
June 30, 1988         1.0        4.8           8             55.2
1989   Sept.30, 1988         0.9         5.7                        54.3
Dec. 31, 1988         0.9         6.6          11            53.4
Mar. 31, 1989         1.5         8.1                        51.9
June 30, 1989         1.5         9.6          16            50.4
1990   Sept.30, 1989         1.8        11.4                        48.6
Dec. 30, 1989         1.8       13.2           22            46.8
Mar. 31, 1990         2.4        15.6                        44.4
June 30, 1990         2.4       18.0           30            42.0
1991   Sept.30, 1990         2.1        20.1                        39.9
Dec. 30, 1990         2.1       22.2           37            37.8
Mar. 31, 1991         2.4       24.6                         35.4
June 30, 1991         2.4       27.0           45            33.0
1992   Sept.30, 1991         2.4        29.4                        30.6
Dec. 31, 1981         2.4       31.8           53            28.2
Mar. 31, 1992         2.7       34.5                         25.5
June 30, 1992         2.7       37.2           62            22.8
1993   Sept.30, 1992         2.7        39.9                        20.1
Dec. 31, 1992         2.7       42.6           71            17.4
Mar. 31, 1993         2.1       44.7                         15.3
June 30, 1993         2.1       46.8           78            13.2
1994   Sept.30, 1993         1.5       48.3                         11.7
Dec. 31, 1993         1.5       49.8           83            10.2
Mar. 31, 1994         1.5       51.3                          8.7
June 30, 1994         1.5       52.8           88             7.2
1995   Sept.30, 1994         1.5        54.3                         5.7
Dec. 31, 1994         1.5       55.8           93             4.2
Mar. 31, 1995         0.9       56.7                          3.3
June 30, 1995         0.9       57.6           96             2.4
1996   Sept.30, 1995         0.9        58.5                         1.5
Dec. 31, 1995         0.9       59.4           99             0.6
Mar. 31, 1996         0.6       60.0           100             -
/  Initial Deposit of US$2.8 million into the Special Account.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                           Item                            Amount
(US$ million)
I          Water Resources Development.
(a)  Irrigation works                                 9.0
70% of expenditures.
(b)  Other subcomponents                              3.4
100% of foreign expenditures for
consultant services and
70% of other expenditures.
II          Agricultural Research.                                2.7
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of US$2.2
million; 30% thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$2.5 million; and 10% thereafter.
III          Rural Extension.                                      8.7
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement under this category of
US$6.6 million; 30% thereafter until the
aggregate reaches US$8.1 million; and 10%
thereafter.
IV          Credit.                                              17.0
50% of expenditures.
V          Marketing.                                            1.1
50% of expenditures.
VI          Support to Small Communities.                         9.2
70% of expenditures.
VII          Administration.                                       2.4
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement of US$2.0 million;
30% thereafter until the aggregate reaches
US$2.2 million; and 10% thereafter.
VIII          Training.                                             0.5
50% of expenditures up to an aggregate
disbursement of US$0.3 million; 30% thereafter
until the aggregate reaches US$0.4 million;
and 10% thereafter.
IX          Unallocated                                           6.0
TOTAL                                         60.0



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Table T.9
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURALi DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
(ln US$ m no-n}
Amounts to be Financed by
Government    Government  TOTAL
and IBRD      only  1/
A.  WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
Domestic Water Supply                       2.4          -          2.4
Public Irrigation                          16.4          0.3       16.7
Feasibility Study                           1.6          -          1.6
Institution Strengthening                   1.2          0.1        1.3
Fish Culture                                0.4          -         0.4
Subtotal (A)                          22.0          0.4      22.4
B.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Generation of Technology                    2.7          0.2        2.9
Diffusion of Technology                     1.6          0.3        1.9
Basic Seed Production                       2.2          -         2.2
Livestock Breeding                          1.5          0.1        1.6
Basic Agricultural Studies                  0.8          -         0.8
Subtotal (B)                           8.8          0.6       9.4
C. RURAL EXTENSION
Rural Extension                            27.6          3.0       30.6
Social Forestry                             0.4          -         0.4
Subtotal (C)                          28.0          3.0      31.0
Do MARKETING
Marketing Information                       0.3          -         0.3
Storage Construction                        1.5          -         1.5
Classification                              0.6          -         0.6
Input Supply Network                        0.6          5.3       5.9
Marketing Fund (FINACOM)                    -            4.4       4.4
Subtotal (D)                           3.0          9.7      12.7
E.  RURAL INVESTMENT CREDIT                    37.7                    37.7
F. SUPPORT TO SMALL RURAL COMMUNITIES
Community Fund                             11.3          -        11.3
Fund Administration                         3.4          0.7       4.1
Subtotal (F)                          14.7          0.7      15.4
G.  PROJECT COORD., MONITORING & EVAL.
Headquarters                                5.6          0.1        5.7
Regions                                     2.2          0.3       2.5
Subtotal (G)                           7.8          0.4       8.2
H.  TRAINING                                    1.9          -          1.9
TOTAL                                123.9         14.8     138.7
1/ Excluding Incremental Seasonal Credit.



- 41-                         ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
ProJect Orgoniaatiom  nd Xswsgmmt
A. Institutional Aspects
Federal and Regional Levels
1.        An Interministerial Commission (IC) for the Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP), chaired by the Secretary-General of the
Ministry of Interior, and comprised of representatives from the Ministries
of Finance, Planning, Land Reform and Agriculture and the Superintendent of
SUDENE, has overall policy and planning responsibility for the NRDP
(Chart 1). The Director for the Program of Support to Small Farmers within
SUDENE is the regional coordinator of the NRDP in which the proposed
project participates. The Directorate receives policy backing for its work
through the Regional Rural Development Council (RDC) linked to SUDENE's
Deliberative Council, which includes all of the Northeast State Governors.
The RDC consists of the Superintendent of SUDENE, senior management of the
Directorate, representatives of the involved federal Ministries and banks,
the Northeast State Secretaries responsible for program coordination and
program beneficiary associations and unions.
State and Local Levels
2.        A State Rural Development Council (SRDC), chaired by the Governor
with the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary, including the
Secretaries of Agriculture (SAA) and Water Resources (SRH), and
representatives from participating banks, SUDENE regional office and
beneficiary associations would provide overall guidance for rural
development activities. A State Coordinating Commission (SCC), chaired by
the Secretary of Planning and composed of UT's Executive Secretary and
representatives of all executing agencies operating within the project,
would ensure proper implementation of SRDC guidelines and integration of
project activities. The SCC would meet monthly to plan, supervise and
evaluate the implementation of the annual work plans to ensure their
compatibility with overall project goals and methodology.
3.        UT, an agency with its own budget, salary structure and
administrative personnel procedures, located within the Secretariat of
Planning (SEPLAN-PB), would be the agency responsible for administering and
coordinating all federally-funded rural programs and for fully integrating
them under the project. Under the project, it would be responsible for:
(a) consolidating annual operating plans drafted by executing agencies
(Table 2.1); (b) supervising project performance and advising the SRDC on



ANNEX 2
- 42 -                        Page 2 of 3
institutional or technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and
preparing reimbursement requests; (d) evaluating ongoing projects; and
(e) administering training activities and the community development fund.
4.        UT has reorganized its administrative structure to adjust to the
needs of the NRDP (Chart 1). Its headquarters in Joao Pessoa would have up
to about 4 subject-matter specialists, 28 technicians, and 27 support staff
organized into an executive secretariat, directly in charge of four
departments, namely: Planning and Evaluation, Community Development,
Technical Coordination and Administration and Finance. The Technical
Coordination Department would be responsible for supervising and monitoring
project implementation through the six regional offices. The regional
offices would gradually increase in number from two in the project Year 1
to a maximm of six in Year 4. Regional offices staff would include 25
staff (6 managers, 13 technicians, and 6 support staff). Field offices
would typically have three project officers, namely a regional coordinator,
two officers covering economic activities (such as extension) and another
for social activities.
B. Project Execution
(See Charts 1 and 2.)
C   Training
5.        All training programs would be emphasized and would be centrally
coordinated and administered by the Training Division within the Planning
Division of UT to avoid duplication and conflicting strategies among State
agencies.  The five types of training given would be:
(a) Induction Training. The objective would be to give an
initial orientation for staff, farmers and community leaders
as to the basic project concepts, components expectations
and the underlying strategy of "participation" in the
implementation of project activities. It would be given by
USA;
(b)  Project Component Related Training.  The objective would be
to provide technical training by component for project
staff. Responsibility for assessing the needs and
undertaking the execution of the training program would
remain with the implementing agencies, but UT's Training
Division would have to give its clearance before releasing
project funds;
(c)  Management Training.  The objective would be to improve all
involved agencies' own managerial skills (both at central
and regional level). Though organized by UT, the courses
themselves would be given by consultants and specialized
institutions;



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
(d) Training of Trainers. USA in cooperation with SUDENE would
train trainers, usually with the assistance of consultants;
and
(e) Farmers' Training. Farmers would receive training on
specific components, such as credit, marketing and community
development. In each case, the respective implementing
agency would be responsible for the training. -
Detailed training programs have been designed to achieve identified impacts
to be used as evaluation indicators. They have been spelled out explicitly
(project files).
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.        Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
simplify reporting requirements to provide accurate and timely information
for project management and to allow annual planning. UT's Operations
Department would receive from executing agencies monthly reports on key
physical and financial indicators. In addition, UT would coordinate
monitoring and evaluation activities and assist regional offices to carry
out ongoing evaluation of project activities. State evaluation activities
under the proposed project would comprise: (a) a baseline survey;
(b) ongoing evaluation and special studies of selected topics; (c) mid-term
evaluation; and (d) post-project evaluation.



44 -                          ANNEX 2
Table I.1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
List of Executing and Collaborating hzencies
Main Executing       Main Collaborating
Project Activity                   Agency               Agencies
Water Resource Development
-Public Irrigation                   SRH             Consultants, private
contractors
-Water Supply                        SRH             Private contractors,
municipalities
-Feasibility Studies                 SRH             Consultants
-Fishery                             SRH             EMATER-PB
-Institution Strengthening           SRH             Consultants
-Private Irrigation                  SAA             Credit banks, EMATER-PB
Agricultural Research
-Studies, Trials, Observation        EMEPA           CPATSA, EMBRAPA
Units
-Basic Seeds/Seedlings               EMEPA           EM&TER-PB
Production
-Animal Breeding Stock               EMEPA           EKATER-PB
Rural Extension
-AgriculturalTSocial Extension      EMATER-PB       EMBRATER, EMBRAPA
-Cotton Pest Control Program         EMATER-PB       EMBRATER, EMBRAPA
Rural Investment Credit              BB, BNB,        EMATER-PB
PARAIBAN, BNCE
Marketing Services
-Marketing Information and           CEASA-PB        EMATER-PB
Orientation Services
-Storage                             CIDAGRO         CIBRAZEM
-Marketing Promotion                 CIDAGRO         EMATER-PB
-Products Classification             CIDAGRO         EMATER-PB
-Training                            CIDAGRO         CIBRAZEM
-Seeds Production/Distribution      EMEPA            CIDAGRO, Cooperatives
Support to Small Rural Community
-Community Activities               Comm* Group      UT,  EMATER-PB
-Technical Assistance, Training     UT               EMATER-PB
Project Administration and
Training
-Administration, M&E                UT               CEPA-PB, SUDENE,
all project executing
agencies
-Training                            UT              most gr_Lect executing



ar   :1                                               I  !
SIE                                                                                               'I
Ut                                  -
q
p
d.                                                                                           1
__  --                         %i.,
-            5.4                           --ft U.
9,          3                      *                        II           PU'
*1
ii
'-9-I                                             ciI?
I U
.1



- 46 -                                     2
33*211.                                 Cbart 2
NDRUAT EA.DRYUOH5~  PIJtIC  - PARIS
Secic tul.t df            FT       F 1
Vee t.ouc              IA1c1         Ie
SW . _~~~~~S
Dlr.towte of                 State Rural
(7)                   LaL
R1-VAL tLVE_
i am. 1.f8 el                Sogt.o
I  _mu Unit                    Ralua
|    |    ~(')     JOffig
LOCAL liVE.
Sac Nova     ~Sup"uawao118                         Adl4ature
. ~~~~~~OM                         _                _ teils __ts_
(7)               (2)                (3)
j t    :sm          Fied           uAguiicultwe
 135ow   -                 - - -           ts _
(7)                        ~~~~~~~~~~(2)
Ii____   (7)      (16)          l    (2)
50h. ~       Spelao               114             Ap1culo X t~w
TOM1w-rkers    - - - I              usaIourts
(7)               (21)(1
m                                        *Agriculture
Tom             1Woun   - - -  1 1onets;
I  I  I   (7)  I  I (6    I     I    (1)
TOTL         2,878 b4.           142 stdf                               )0 .t     , u.l ul
nin bas- "Wp t Ioj.tnacs taff. '-
_  __ ddua Uiw.



-47 -                            a
Chart 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTST RU$M  DKVKLMENT PROGRAM
NORTUMSRURAL DEVEOIXUT ?ROJRCT - PARIBA
Iuleantation Schedule
Projet     t           tV __.
Yew yew Yew Yaw Yew Yew Yew Yew
1    2    3    4    5    6      7   8
ME 1motm t3ww            s
Pusi IrSa~  Scm 
Jwu                                                 _ _ _
hA -_ ' = = =
Itst1ns Sttmd                             - .-                
lim1tU  S A1
otic    r _ __Il -,
Fish Rito
As*a1ia1  miuDW
Bic Sa PhaA%
An_d  nIq  _ __ _, 
Soadl Rdb                                      .    _          _
Cott= pot ox                          _   , | 
.il Sag Prto                         -__
Galin S mz Stock        . l .I-
Sod cmf                       __                                 - _
Ceztifid %Id proftsu   gm             ---
Wumctr htuwelc        cm                                              -



48                          ~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
- 48 -                             Chart 3
Page 2
Project Component                           _             ,e .t1_ A_                    _ 
Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year
1     2     3     4      5     6     7      8
Supprt to U11 Rural         Ur
Cm  sties
Cou~ity Activitiw            _    _                     -
Prolect     _t              U?    -
&  ,hf
Imlution oi Traird g
& Tedwdcad
Traifr4t--                                                             
Evaluation--                                                       --
Mid-tem Aiew
Cowado  R                                                             . 
Lend:  - -- - Preputay activities
-.- D         e     l pXrlad



ANNEX 3
- 49-                         a Pgs -    of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Plasncial and Economic Benefits
A. Financial Benefits
1.        The estimated increase in crop and livestock production (Table
3.1) due to the project was derived from seven illustrative farm models.
The farm models (Table 3.2) take into acconmt the present low level of
production and the assumption that only simple on-farm investments will be
made by farmers. The financial rates of return range from 15% to 69X;
however, the incomes to be derived are not excessively high. The projected
increases in crop yields are shown in Table 3.3. Agricultural production
would be increased through a combination of increased productivity and
expansion of the cropped area by about 18Z (mainly resulting from improved
security of land tenure). Increased productivity would result mainly from
increasing the cropping intensity on irrigated lands, more widespread use
of improved seeds and better cultivation practice, including introduction
of pest control techniques. The expansion of the cropped area would be
possible due to the increased use of irrigated land and animal traction.
Cropping patterns are not expected to change dramatically. In the rainfed
areas, perennial crops (fruit trees) would be expanded; also drought-
resistant crops such as grain sorghum, groundnut, castor oil, sunflower and
sesame would be introduced or expanded. The annual cotton crop, which had
almost disappeared as the consequence of the boll weevil infestation, would
be reintroduced in the areas most favorable to its cultivation and a set of
new techniques for pest control would be adopted by a limited number of
more progressive farmers. In areas benefiting from irrigation, farmers are
expected to increase the proportion of more profitable casherops such as
bananas, tomatoes and other vegetables, and long-fiber cotton.  Expansion
of the cattle (mostly dairy cattle) and goat and sheep herds would occur
mainly from Improved animal husbandry and better feeding resulting from
increased use of artificial pastures (such as buffel grass) and legume
fodder trees (algaroba); these trees would be planted from seedlings
supplied by project nurseries. At full development (Year 10), the annual
incremental marketable production generated by the project is estimated to
be US$24.7 million (in November 1986 farm-gate prices) with 95Z resulting
from crops and 5% from animal products.
2.        The increased production would raise incomes considerably.  More
importantly, it would give greater food security by reducing the impact of
the effects of droughts. In the financial analysis of the models,
supplementary income from off-farm work has been taken into account. Net
annual family farm benefits, which currently range from US$300 to
US$1,000, would increase at full development to US$900 and US$2,800,
respectively. The expansion of agricultural activities alone would create



- 50 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
new on-farm opportunities equivalent to about 9,600 man-years at full
development. Most of this demand would be for unskilled labor that would
be met with family labor. Many small rural community subprojects would
also generate demand for local employment, possibly of a semi-skilled
nature.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.        The overall economic rate of return of the project is estimated
to be about 14% with a 20-year analysis (Table 3.4). The cost stream for
the economic analysis is based on five elements: (a) all Paraiba project
costs, except those related to water supply systems, feasibility studies
for NRDP second phase irrigation projects, social forestry and community
development component, or 84% of total project costs; (b) 10% of regional
administration costs financed under the Northeast Rural Development -
Sergipe Project (Loan 2523-BR); (c) 7.4% of regional research costs
financed under the Northeast Rural Development - Sergipe and Bahia Projects
(this percentage is equal to the proportion of Paraiba's rural population
within the Northeast's rural population); (d) Paraiba's share (6%) of
cadastral activity costs financed under Loan 2593-BR; and (e) recurrent
costs on a declining basis for Years 9 to 12, and 25% of Year 8 costs
during Years 13 to 20.
4.        The evaluation of incremental net benefit included two elements:
(a) benefits from 11,500 farmers expected to use investment credit
(3,960 irrigated farms and 7,500 rainfed farms) equivalent to 30% of the
37,800 farmers in the project area; and (b) an estimate for the incremental
benefits accruing to the remaining rainfed farmers who would be reached by
the extension service and who would adopt improved farming practices
without using institutional credit (6,500 or 25% of the remaining
farmers). No benefits were included from the fish hatchery and social
forestry subcomponents because they are too small to have any substantial
weight when compared to on-farm benefits.
5.        Economic prices (Table 3.5) at the farm gate were derived from
the main traded goods including cotton, maize, rice, sorghum, and chemical
fertilizers, taking into account international trading prices, freight,
insurance, processing and handling costs, with price trends projected
according to those estimated by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projection
Department at 1986 constant prices. Beans, cassava, bananas and pineapples
were valued at financial farm-gate prices. All other outputs and inputs
(including labor) were adjusted by the standard conversion factor (0.83) to
account for domestic price distortions.
6.        Sensitivity tests showed that the rate of return is moderately
sensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. If project
benefits fall by 26%, or project costs rise by 35%, the rate of return
would fall to the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. Also, a lag
of three years in achieving project results, such as might occur during a
severe drought, would result in an 11% rate of return.



-5S1 -                                      ANNEX 3
Table 3.1
K_iII .w     ilr - PAM
TqtdA u id ut Ntxdnd  wl    W        d Vlgum o t   W2
Psb d At       T.i                                  Vab
.-   -
1, P                      1jp                  B
A     (be )               -      (b) xs)          (he    )
Amal and S      iial  s2
Comm                               -    27,300             -       37,30              -     10,532           2
M'm                                -      7,710            -        11,149            -      3,439          43
R189whs Bwe                        -     2,155             -        4,047             -      1$8!2          866
V*R Be"                            -      3,358            -        13,952            -      lox,         3,456
Stfb  cb,ii                        -     2,79              -        3,476             -        717          253
catr OIl                           -        -             550         550            55D       550           39
S ,qlu                             -        -           4,800       9,00D          4,8)0     9,000          317
Rim (pisdy)                     1,20    1,4C8           4,700       11,142         3,440     9,734        1,851
yams                              600    5,688          1,21)       14,*a            600     8,550        1,867
PFtabM,                           480      480            960       4,800            480     4,32)        1,795
gwmt Pataum                  160    1,12)           480        3,696           32)      2,576          73
P1xpe (OO ut)                     12      1,195           6m0       8,995            480     7,800        1,044
loa-fiker Comtto (Irdta)           -        -           5,460       13,650         5,460    13,65D        6,729
Tau                                -        -              96       4752              96     4,752          744
Ol=                                -        -              96       1,127             96     1,121          316
BaWis                             610    5,673          3,30D      50,89      1    2,660    45,290        255
Stfrcx                            160      144            32)         374            160       230          1(9
Psya                               -        -             240       7,194            240     7,194          203
(ow                                -        -             110         550            110       550          155
Qata. A;Oe                         -        -             110         704            110       704          110
Scslscp                            -        -             110         308            110       308          174
cEsm1 t                            -        -             110         440            110       440          465
Lisstock mAam
Milk (OOD litams)                  -        -              -       13,475             -     13,475          949
$ML                                  4lS ___                                _           __             24,671
Nlb    s In 1= becaw c0        p mp ti quies am aLe     in udt (fiut).
1/ km ukr ntd cLtrg (awmrco) camt be dbyft 1 cr<p



WAZIL
NmC rmL Dr    P
NWWA MURAL DPVE             F    - PARAIB
a)Brcterstics of I1lltstrative Fam Models
edin Pitmueia  o   cxi   mye
size of
Estinuted   cultivated                                        FNadly Fanm Beneits (US$) Years tb   FIR
tDistrmi   Area       Fanmiz           Main                    Iwo      WI                  Full    over 20
modelof Farms    w)    WP Type Livestock  Location   Cli                Project Proje   ncre     lDeutalDwe    yeam %
1      2,200    2.5 5.0  Ralifed  -            Litoral   lbmf.        792      2,587    1,795         5       69
2      3,700    3.1 4.0  RainfedMIk          Agreste    Semi-ftudd    50D       920        920        3        15
3      3,000    5.0  6.0                     Brejoaine lgillo   U    1,007    1,86         889        4        49
4      2,100    5.0 6.3          _   _   _ Caris    Semi-add           790    2,345      1,555        6        49
da Prdam      llls
5      3,000    8.2 11.3  EsInEedAULk        Sertao     Seai-adid      820    1,650        830        4        27
6      1,000    4.0  4.6 1 Rainfed/IUvigated Serta      Semi-arid      418    2,294      1,876        3        58
(Public)
- -..
7       3,000   4.6  7.5 2 Irgstsel          Sertao     Semi-aid       307    2,760      2,453        4        3B
(Private)
Total 189000 3/
1/ COf vMd  2 ba are lirpted.
2/ All irrtipted.
3/ W  vJelnt to 30% cf the befi i  reuiEv   i:itOiied  credit pla 25% of the remSnitg rainfal awmers
dob  wll adopt irproved tedwoloy usizg otbdr  ureas E credit.                                                                       1 |
!Al



-53 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 3.3
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
gEtimted Ares and Yields o  Nor C5             at Farm Level
WHthout Project and atd       DeoLost
Agroecological               Area (ha)            Yields gk/ha)               Z Increase/
Subarea                   g  o P              WO             WP             Decrease t )
LITORAL
-- erT 1 (Rainfed
with D.A.) 1/              5.0   5.0
Crops
Mize and Vigna
Beans                     0.1   0.3           620/460         713/529           15/15
Bananas                     0.1   0.5         9,000          11,700               30
Pineapple (unit)            0.1   0.5        10,000          15,000               50
Yams                        0.5   1.0         9,500          11,875               25
Cassava                     0.3   0.3         8,000          10,000               25
Papaya                      -     0.2           -            30,000               -
Coconut (unit)              0.4   0.4         3*000           3,000
Pasture/Forage
Native Pasture              1.0   1.0           -              -
Improved Pasture            -     0.2
Forest, Fallow and Others
2.5   0.6           -             -
AGRESTE
Model 2 (Rainfed
with D.A.) 1,               4.0   4.0
Crops
Annual Cotton, Maize
and Ph. Beans               0.4   1.2 2/      150/300/240    1,000/175/140  565/(42)/(42)
Cassava, Maize and
Ph. Beans                  1.3   1.1       7,500/240/240    8,000/260/275    7/8/15
Bananas                     0.1   0.2       9,000            11,700               30
Cassava                     0.2   0.2         800             1,000               25
Pasture/Forage
Native Pasture              1.0   1.0          -               -
Improved Pasture            0.1   0.3          -            30,000
Forest, Fallow and Others
0.9    -                          -



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Table  3.
Page 2
Agroecological                   Area (ha)          Yields (kg/ha)              I Incresse 
Subarea 8P                                        WO            WP            Decrease ( )
BRWJO
Miel 3 (Xainfed
with D.A.) 1/                  6.0   6.5
Crops
Annual Cotton, Maize
and Ph. Beans                0.3    -          100/300/420   -
Cassava, Maize and
Ph. Beans                    0.6   1.2       7,500/240/300   9,250/290/360       23/21/20
Potatoes                       0.3   0.6       6,000            7,500                 25
Bananas                        0.2   0.5       9,000           11,700                 30
Urucu                          0.1   0.2         900            1,170                 30
Sweet Potatoes                 0.1   0.3       7,000            7,700                 10
Pasture/Forage
Native Pasture                 3.1   2.7         -
Improved Pasture               0.3   0.3         -
Artifical Pasture               -    0.3         -                -
Forest, Fallow
and Others                    1.0   0.4         -
CAkIRIS DA PRINCESA
Model 4 (Ralnfed
with D.A.) /                   6.0   6.3
crops
Annual Cotton, Maize
and Vigna Beans              2.0    -         100/300/240      - 
Maize and Ph. Beans            2.0   3.6        620/540           715/620          15/15
Custard Apple, Maize
and Vigna Beans               -    0.1          -            6,400/160/120         -
Guava and Vigna Bean          a -    0.1          -             5,000/300            -
Soursop and Vigna
Beans                         -    0.1          -            2,800/120
Cashew Nuts                     -    0.1          -            4,000
Cassava and Ph.
Beans                         -    0.5          -            9, 750/540            -
Castor Oil and
Vigna Beans                   -    0.5          -            1,000/625             -
Pasture/Porage
Vative Pasture                 1.0   1.0                           -                 -
Forest, Fallow
and-Others                   1.0   0.3                           -



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3*3
Page 3
Agroecological                   Area (ha)             Yields (kg/ha)              X Increase/
Subarea                        WO       WP         WO                VP          Decrease ( )
SERTAO
Model 5 (Rainfed
with D.A.) 1/                10.0    11.3
Crops
Perennial Cotton                2.6 3/  -           20              -                    -
Perennial Cotton,
Maize and Vigna
Beans                         2.3 3/  -           16/400/240    -
Annual Cotton,
Maize and Vigna
Beans                         1.2    0.5         420/300/240   1,000/170/140  138/(42)/(42)
Maize and Vigna
Beans                         0.      4.0        560/420          645/485           15/15
Rainfed Rice                    0.      2.0      1,600            2,500                   56
Sorghum and Vigna
Beans                          -      3.0          -            1,875/800
Pasture/Forage
Native Pasture                  1.0    1.2           --
Improved Pasture                 -      0.6        -                                    -
Forest, Fallow and
Others                        1.8      -
PUBLIC IRRIGATION
Model 6  (Irrigation &
Rainfed with D.A.) 1,
Crops -                         4.0    4.6
Perennial Cotton                0.3 31  -          100
Perennial Cotton,                   -
Maize and Vigna
Beans                         1.5 3/  -          80/400/240        -
Annual Cotton, Maize
and Vigna Beans               0.6    0.6        480/300/420       480/300/420         -
Maize and Vigna
Beans                         0.3    0.3        560/420           645/485           15/15
Irrigated Cotton                 -      1.0        -              2,500                 -
Irrigated Vigna
Beans                          -     0.6         -              1,475                 -
Irrigated Maize                  -     0.6         -             3,000                  -
Irrigated Tomatoes               -     0.1         -            50,000
Irrigated Onions                 -      0.1         -            12,000                 -
Pasture/Forage
Native Pasture                  0.6    0.6          -                --
Improved Pasture                 -     0.4         -            309000



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Tabe 3T.3
Page 4
Agroecological               Area (ha)             Ylelds (kg/ba)              Increase/
Subarea                      VO      VP          VO              VP          Decrease ( )
Forest. Fallow and
Others                        0.7    0.4           -                -
PRIVATE IRRIGATION
Model 7 (Irrigation
and Rainfed with
D.A.* ';                    5.1    7.5
Crops
Perennial Cotton              0.7 3/  -          100
Perennial Cotton,
Maize and Vigna
Beans                       0.9 3       /      80/400/240        -
Annual Cotton,
Maize and Vigna
Beans                       0.4 3/            480/_60/420
Maize and Vigna                -
Beans                        -      0.5        -                 645/485
Rainfed Rice                  0.1    0.5      1,600              2,500                56
Irrigated Cotton                      1.5         -              2,500
Irrigation Vigna
Beans                        -      1.5         -              1,416
Irrigated Bananas              -      0.5         -             20,000
Pasture/Porage
Native Pasture                2.5    2.5                              -
Forest, Fallow and
Others                      0.5    0.5          -
1 D.A.: Draft Animal
/ Area infested by the boll weevil, where the technological package recommended includes
the reduction of the shares of maize and vigna beans In the consortium and the use of
improved cotton variety and fertilizers, combined with thorough pest control.
3/ Area infested by the boll weevil.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(. _._____ ._  gqd  _f h.'d   1______)__
I        2        3         4        5        6       7        e       9       1%      is       12      13       14      15       U       17       t
KY  1f1  IETm                         -2"00   5S*.  *713210  -24,0   30.1 104.0 1U.O 273".0 3016.  312S0IM.0 29370 2                            zM,0  f.o0 V  .o 26510.0 2924.0 311S46.0  460
IOTa. i'i-r vnma  in K T    r-20.   -sn.7290-66,                         .o*..o1230 m05.   asa.316.0m                       .   09.   'wo rn.i  rsas.o _rz.   iag_. 226.
5 EFUfA   E.ItA 1E1403.0 -20  236.o   3293.0 -20   32Z                                  SU.0100  609                   9.0 &           - 35.0.0 2 0 USA 2 .0 -                     I.0
am               rB                    tt30.- 2IM0 V0  .42   4M.0 IMM. WM 0.0 .
603011  0016OA5                         1261.#0  12".0   lilo   0794,0   121.0  1164.0  109"90  loft5.#  M                U12.5  476.3  2720.0  2120.0  272,0  2.0    7720.0  27t0.0  2n9.0
OK llV    iSl                           23.0  261".0  320           35.0  4522.0 4.0   4370                 .0  36.0   264.0   1.0   It 0   t .0 107.   102.0 12.0 1OWA0   12.0
WTh1                                    492.0  1909.   16093.   1511.0   914.0  793.   4672.0  30.   32.   260.   1743.0    MO   9.    96.0   99.0   99.0   996.0    9.04o
MUIIITtIU                               9690   9100.0   meo.   11733.0  1097".0  tiw,0  107A0  U4.0  926.0                 e..    .0    21. 2     .0       22.0    2W52.0    2052.0    W.O    12o
1N                                      2w70.0i    20      44.0   3J.0    o.0             0.0  124.0   t6.0   134.    15           7.3    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0
EGSE     eNREK    lt St1"* 36.0   4193.0                                  -        -        -           -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -            -       -        -
_1   IE31  1                            1M00   2640.0          -         -        -        -       -            -       -        - _          -       .            -            _       _        _
0IEm     069060 11I                     1017.0   9106.0   S2.0   06.0   84210  Oe.0                 -        -       -        -       -                         -           -            -        -
EUWUL Law  t        no                 44;93.0  443.0   44.0    44.0    44.0                        -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -                -          
I      tat C  COSTS                   10267.0 tS 0  1 .0   17036   18365.  9473.0   I.    40. MMS   42                        3003AM      17136.0  17136.0 171346.0 807136.0 17136.0 17136.0 17340
MAL  =JC   _M A   .5'T M.   .S  -2800 -2W 0
Iota INJECT zcIlltll IET 55927   -211807,0  200424.0  237040 -19532.0 -Th139. 8w07300n   134540 197616.0 24$J2Y95 269).6,0 2693.S5 28719. 229691.0 259017,0 261312.0 2116.0 294420.0 30701O0.
j.ina        _     .     '...u    _1g..a .....a _ _ a* _     .._ S ..sn.m. . -.3*  .tsi      _n      _~   .. .s       *;  t_ .-gig  _._ 



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Tablee .5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analyses
(Cruzados in Constant November 19Yb prices)
1              Price
Selected Products          Unit       Financial          Economic
1987/89        1990/94    1995
Imported Products
Cotton - long fiber         kg      7.00    -           -          -
- short fiber        kg     5.00    4.51         5.97      7.47
Maize                     kg      1.40    2.79        2.79       2.71
Rice (paddy)              kg      2.70    2.22        2.76       2.80
Non-traded Products
Sorghum                     kg      0,50    2.18        2.71       2.72
Imported Inputs
Urea (45%N)                 kg      2.80    3.28        4.63       4.43
Triple Super Phosphate
(45% P205)               kg     2.50    3.17         3.60      3.94
Potassium Chloride
(60% K20)                kg     2.60    2.48         2.77      2.94
All Other Inputs/
Outputs:                                 Financial Price x 0.83 1/
/ Standard Conversion Factor.
Source: Bank Mission.



- 59
ANNE 3
Table 3.6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMN  PROGRAM
NORTRHAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Project Sensitivity Analyis
"A.SENT UW.UU  OF KET STRA   At ,i PISCWtlT PATE Of 11l
1.?,T      LI 102      Up 2o?       P 52    M'.4 1Q %    NO  Mt    OM 50Z  LAS I M YftR LW:, YE: LOS 3 Y S
CdlO!          Y9 .37.9   4146.?   t2?6415.5  968043.231.!  X$4#             .'0#460:1 -271!3S. 9   1S562654    93M9t.,8   -.'!t7.
UP '0%         214#452*9   My31         442#330,   ;844lt6Ae   44*12   -13#424,6  -W3 240.?  1015440                 -182.1   -914r24.3
UP 202         130MM.0   244,306,7  M59t245-5  '('061 Y    16.4:'.2    9',09.6  -439t325:9    IM53'   8u267d 1  -175909.3
JP M0t        -121e88r.0    -7,'1 i  1.19O 4   w1  ;            *235.925'  *.'4'        -1f 9 !;F0,  -234#79 3  -:46o522.0  -4284164.2
MM 102         382.622.9  496s1t..'  610J!00: 4         1s. I   '18t604.1   1r4 .7'54   1897fr571,   2690710.6   167.99        7W345.?
MM1 202        466#.Y079  5s 0.4.  i64PS85 4 :. '6'O1(           P.X *   9. .38s830.3  -102t9960   3M3.795. 6   752#072,8   1.0.4306
MM  50$        ?1PP62.8   !32,'0   69144.4 t 98.S6:67  605.024.0  4%.f90M3   14929;0 6O 6.050X5  'iO,32?,?  4129685*6
LAO I YFAR                          -           -           -                                        268953.1   1472430.3   75.S8l.1
LAM  2 YEARS           -4 -                                 -                                      -  -       -                  W2430O1,  ',67.9
A8 3 YtEARS                                                             - -          -                       -            -     228.
INTIAL WAES IMF Ri  t1   RFrT 9TNEAps
Si,4333331.                   3833333
PMTOT      LP102       lP t0 1      JP.      D MNI0       VWU N2%    VWt ' 10:r   4       Y' LAO2YEA"R.LAe 3 YEARS
C.TOT             14,464      155? .0       6,A86      19.'6i      13 ;YI       11.909       67,7       13 y.2      laS.t        10.920
UP 102            11366       14 464       l5.473      18.15       12.154       128136       S '1Il     12.2.4'     lo.."        10.104
UP 202           2t237         1.3:461     11.464      17?044      111191        9.16?      4CM00       1. V7        1019. I0     9.365
Up l02      i       .S67      1*1,;29                  14 1464      9,716           .42M     248 2 t     S. IN        9.!4;       7 195
NOWN 102          IS.67       16.81"       ;7 Pe21     20 .441     14 4.44      13.108       '.in1      141.52      12.313,!     11.831
DMWN  "02         1i:0.14     !8.1'       I 1 2'6     2I.326      1 .i932     1i4.464      ?1!5!        .!?7 4.2               12.858
Wil8 to%          22: 57      23.681       24,478      27.175      21.349       '?:96 9i.464            !0. 406      89,581     17.040
!.'3 I YEAR                  -            -                 -           -            -           -      14.4t4 z!.052            11.891
L.'W   YEA'            -            -           -           -           -            -           -           -       14,464      13.052
LAO3 IEAS"                          -                 -           -            -                       -                 -       :44464
SVITCH41N  'J.'II.NS AT 11.
4 AP.AISA       94ITPCHING    PERCVItASE
STRM                   VA.UE        3lALIfi      3 3
e                         ;TOT            1sW39i387.70   840.849,79       -26 20
C.TOT             840,4M.78  1f13?7.S?.?o         35.50%
MeL Prr.,:st      oll, d  iJ  ttZ   298>537.-
I;.taeinal  P.ee .?tn - 141.%
P Ewi,sltt E  .e.,e to As b ffr - 15.4%
U-.
LA



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PARAIBA
Documents Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on Northeast of Brazil
- World Bank Report 3988-BR "Rural Development Programs for Brazil's
Northeast: An Interim Assessment." February 7, 1983.
- Kutcher, Gary P. and P.L. Scandizzo. "The Agricultural Economy of
Northeast Brazil". A World Bank Research Publication: The John
Hopkins University Press, Baltimore and London, 1981.
- Peter H. May. "Northeast Brazilian Agriculture - An Overview"
January 9, 1986.
- Report 5360-BR - Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project,"
May 31, 1985.
- World Bank Reports 5349-BR, 5350-BR, 6118-BR, 6117-BR and
6135-BR, "Northeast Rural Development Project" for Rio Grande do
Norte, Sergipe (April 1985), Pernambuco (May 1986), Bahia, Piaui and
Ceara (September 1986).
B* SUDENE
- "Regional Program of Support to the Small Rural Producer," May 1984
Volume   I - Program Summary
Volume  II - Background
Part I   - The Brazilian Economy
Part II - The Northeast
Part III - The Rural Sector in Northeast
Volume III - Policy Framework
Volume IV - The Program
Part I   -   - Global Conception
Part II-VIII - Program Components
Part IX      - Targets and Total Costs
Volume   V - Administration
Volume VI - Socio-Economic Justification
Annex      - Regional Agricultural Programming
- Description of the Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation
Sub-Systems," September 1984.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
C. State Secretariat of Plantin & Paraiba
- Northeast Program for Support of Small Farmers, October 1984; and
subsequent updated and revised reports:
Volume 1:    Project Background
Volume 2:    Program Framework:
Part 1: The State Economy
Part 2: The Rural Sector
Part 3: The Small Rural Producer
Volume 3:    The Political Framework
Volume 4:    Part    I  - Targets and Costs
Part   II  - Land Tenure
Part  III  - Water Resources
Part   IV  - Rural Extension
Part    V  - Research
Part   VI  - Marketing Services
Part  VII  - Rural Credits
Part VIII  - Small Communities Development
Part   IX  - Farm Models
Volume 5:    Program Administration - Executing Agences
Training-Coordination
Volume 6:    Program Impact
D.  World Bank, SUDENE and State Government of-Paraiba:
- "Minutes of Understanding, December 17, 1986".
E. IBRD Supplementary Staff Working Papers
(i)  Water Resources Development
(ii) COSTAB
(iii) FARMOD
(iv) Economic Analysis



44'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE
oyw*u                IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                            B R AZ I L
PARA                                YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS
SPouth  America
3'6
caStelO do PIau~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JaocOftwo
s-i                               >    at             \                 -s         R18 GRANDE  .o
oToud      -0 -          DO NORTE
x~~~~~~~~~
ookk~~~~~~
0801s0s          ~~~PIAUI  fgzosd At
/-'%on#        do o 



8'                                                                            -                      I                    ~~~~~~gJO'v     entr~o   p-ul
7  't   -                                                        > ERNAMBUCO
~~Bntn 2.09,           J  -                             ~~                                                          do Pot'owY,  
/ |1                                                         Seto Se                                                                                 ALAGOAS
N S. 9
0t; 0 5Co-n-s } O Serhor do Boni'                                                                              fldon DoreO 7
*                                                                                      Rbe,m do Po-t>                             SERGIPE
Bo 8     arto O         /of ' )ARACAJU
12                                                                                                  <'-e e'o  ;  >^ BAHIA                                    A.!og ho,euB                                                  12-
 " '                                          O Sroberoba                               OF*,,o de Sorotno
0
S Ant dv Jo,o             SALVADOR
G  OI AS s                                s      d*rio &  itM o                  . :--.                                               o vco.                              Project Boundary
0Jave                                            Land adjudication:
/                              Oerumodo                                                       ^ Q > .ki.  Year O
Year I
' >. V S- .)w ..............  .J               V,Oo.o do Conq-tto  0buo   t_ Year 2
N                                                                                                                Year 3
. ...nv..                                                                                                        Land adjudication under
f F * D" *)    |                      }   *   }~0    Nuclei Centers
-16 29B]RASI|t                                                                                                                              Jr 2 cs2Ltz Rivers 16-
TOe   09$    OnO4'0d b                                                                                                                         Cabr6i.o                          Rivers
tsw ITW h&* aa WdO xPcWd by                                                   m; Cr 
The WOW nna    ot arof .. k  2                                                                                                                                                        State Boundaries
*esd.swd .a *.b so f~ V's
4m wr uset of rh  bV SW*) 7:
m    dW ndV 4 t,en,WtaW     ton    .                                                                                                                                                      International Boundaries
UDCo.wn,.t,o The d.nola,nnn                                        MIA/R                                   I
'nSod and ft ba-'daoe                                                                                                                               OA  b-
-on tS .np do o  p ON'" n_
>       h .te ntsaIrn nc.CodonS* , SW                                           A                                                                                    0           100           200           300  KiOMETERS    KM
ny An n on thV tet *e st ,k ,C;                                                                                                                                                 I                                i
of SWy inntory on any                                                                                                                                                                   0
ando,n.rnt.n on M  dow ot  j                                                                                            ESPiRIT0                                0                    100                   200 MILES
su sch 00                  /                                                                                          t     SAN0                                                                                                  C
SD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0)
co-'403 



/                     ~~~NORTHEAST RURAL DEVEI
NORTHEAST RURAl DEVELOPNV
/                                               ~~~~~~~~PROJECT 
CEARA      /                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMPLEMENTATION YEARS
LOYEAR I
/                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEAR2
.,.; sYEAR 3
..,,.YEAR 4
6"                                                                     hl      r g/
r.- a Odocrut gw ~~RIO GRW
/'t. on,.E A l _~.Vps
XTnunX, 9 r- r~~~~~~~~~~o                                             t.Nrt  NW 
}  t Sot Jse  Aguiar  <              o               ~           ieJdAnrea    S  .de Moldto             0
'      '                                                       r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mre o  nto- r 
0~                                                                              g
s GW ht b_ r f ~ ~   ~    guir 
rynray~~~~~~~a JOS6                                        0                                             gfl
fl_Gf 7 lAbd)*,* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ Ma
OllfG bF                                                                                       ,+     **~spihiaci
f_ G  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G~~JS
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Urnt Il                                             G  k
Gt_"Gf~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo
38e                                           37~~~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                      Voh



IBRD 20376
L
.OPMENT PROGRAM
ENT PROJECT - PARAiBA
kREA
ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
-     SELECTED ROADS
o   MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
*   STATE CAPITAL
O   NATIONAL CAPITAL
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
-s *- ~STATE BOUNDARIES
- - --REGION BOUNDARY
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NDE DO NORTE
Aro_ run__   *          / A
wad      St AG do o                     l       ^0     ~       d   o           PtmuPRABC
toOntO KOSO                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CiEARA
RIO GRANDE
bGbI                                                                     *          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 NORTE
50 Oge \,/Sa I t  ) 
Sldd   \Pecn h.    amno                                                                                                         JOAO
P< Ct~                                                      JQ,  h ;  A                                 PARAiB    PESSOA*
,,t' ds                                                                     s             B     R   A  ZI  L 
115040~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 PEtUIlotego
Quoemo  Fagund                                               A
,/ Cabocaimsj) BovLa                                   -     do) Pogo'
0  BoqwiraAootre                                                   0PInibtw                      PERNAMBUCO
VENTE A          C DGUIANA
Borrode  Umb                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~COLOMBIAj   Q~
Borra de ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-/GUYANA SURINAME
SaoO                                                          35 (gUU>A
To Coruoru
BRAZIL        ~~~~Northeast
PERU                           ')Region
BOLIVIA       BRASILJA@ \
0    25                                                                                              s.75  3*
KILOMETERS                                                      CHIAL
/ARGENTINA2
36'                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URUGUAY
MARCH 1981



33Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
B R A Z I L
/                NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT
:4                NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJE
./             AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPEI
'  .'                      CLASSIFICATION:   DESCRIPTION:
CE ARDA                     /                      LI
CEARA                                              L      VERY ARID       NOT SUITED FOR RAIN-FED AGRICULTURE
/                        [.  1ARID             LIMITED SUITABILITY FOR RAIN-FED AGRICULTURE
SEMI-ARID      PRODUCTION POSSIBLE FOR CROPS REQUIRING
/                        t                       A 3 TO 4 MONTHS GROWING SEASON
FT1 m   WET DRY       PRODUCTION POSSIBLE FOR CROPS
F-.1                  REQUIRING A GOOD LEVEL OF MOISTURE
6                              ,/                                                .. ADEQUACY DlURING 5 OR MORE MONTHS         -
iHARGREAVES, 1974)
/7Befm do St*j
**.- r-,>                                              RIO GRAND
)   *.                           8reIo4\ Coto4doC:d (               N
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m o/,.4>  A,aie$
To Jogjonbe                                                                           o
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b -                                   -
0A
-  P.   / ~ ~~~ ~~~( C  ;o- 
TO~PENMBC SO5.
Bonito del  do COertliono   i
lxarp             ONov6             MuO
_1w uwd Ts S     **    *                                                                      -
OW    S<O
.otW  de I
ff4 ~4 4, s4Q4$U
Pedr3
d~~~~~~~~~~~~Ni                                 -Aa 
0   18            /                                    7t- 
00mal.*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ The



IBRD 2039
k. .   '6                             -o                                                          -    3,4 -
T PROGRAM
IECT - PARAiBA
ENDABLE RAINFALL
-o   ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
-     SELECTED ROADS
o   MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
*   STATE CAPITAL
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
-_    MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
-'-~ STATE BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARY
~- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IE DO NORTE
t | FINova
Plorosta~~~~~~                                                   s-PRUL, t                              )Nrtes
C:0    75           5      5     10                     
36~~                                               ~~                 ~      ~ _____  To Natal
daTrkako
CEARAt
RIO GRANDE
DO NORTE
K'~~~~~-~~~~  ~~~~                         PESSOA                       P~~~~~~~~~~jAR AIBA      JAOAO0
Pitimbu               ~~PERNAMBUCO
NVENEZUE~)  / !R7UIN
COLOMiA ~~~ 
-/.dGUYANA  SURINAME
/~~~~~             I~~~  Northeast
PERU\   l.)Region
BOLIVIA         BRAS'IiIA@ 
0    25   50   75    100
KILOMETERS                                                              /       PARAGUAXN)
)ARGENTINAQ/)
3601                                             350                                               LRGA
URUGUAY        ~~MARCH 198;



