Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT No 21548
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24720)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.1 MILLION (US$7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR
A PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 21, 2000
Private Sector Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2000)
Currency Uiiit = (CAF Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 697 = US$ I
US$ I = SDR 0.752
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO         Banque Centrale des Etats dAfrique de l'Ouest
CBC           Burkinabe Shipping Council
MICM          Ministry of Industy, Commerce and Mining
ONAC          National Office for External Trade
OHADA         Organisation en Afrique pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires
UEMOA         West African Economic and Monetaxy Union
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:    Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     I1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                            23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     3 5
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000289                                       Project Name: PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS
Team Leader: Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao                        TL Unit: PFG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-24720
Country/Department. BURKINA FASO                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: DB - Business Environment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/30/90                                Effective:  10/13/93           01/31/94
Appraisal.  06/19/92                                  MTR. 06/30/95              06/30/97
Approval:  03/18/93                                Closing:  12/31/97           06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementingAgency: BURKINA FASO/MINISTRY OF COMMERCE; BURKINA FASO/INDUSTRY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Hasan A. Tuluy                             Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                   Silvia Sagari
Team Leader at ICR:   Marie-Ange Saraka-Yao
ICR Primary Author:   Gabrielle Rooz; Jerome
Chevallier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUJN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to help create an institutional environment capable of providing support to
sustainable growth of the private sector. The project was designed to help implement a Government
economic reform program to respond to increased macroeconomic imbalances resulting from large
expansion in public consumption and investment in the 1980s, the result of the country's socialist
orientation. Increased macroeconomic imbalances led Burkina Faso to seek assistance from the Bank and
the IMF. A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was agreed in 1991 and the Bank extended a first Structural
Adjustment Credit. The objectives of the adjustrnent credit were to improve public resource management
and create incentives for private sector development. To achieve the latter, the program included actions in
the areas of public enterprise divestiture, banking sector restructuring, trade and price liberalization, and
regulatory reform. Two technical assistance projects were designed to help the Government carry out its
reform program, the Public Institutional Development Project approved in June 1992, and the project under
review.
Assessment of Project Objective. The project objective was in line with the country assistance strategy to
help the Government create a policy and regulatory environment supportive of the private sector. It was
also consistent with the Government's economic liberalization program. The objective was too narrowly
defined, however. Focusing on institution building without clear indication of a purpose is a recipe for
disappointment. The program lacked an overall private sector development strategy providing long-term
objectives for the sector and the necessary tools for implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective of the project was not revised but project design was modified.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included three components: (i) assistance to the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Mining
(MICM) to implement the divestiture program and streamline administrative procedures related to external
trade and the establishment of new enterprises; (ii) reorganization, privatization, and strengthening of the
institutional support structure for private sector development; and (iii) support to the Ministry of Finance
and Planning to complete the privatization of the banking sector and strengthen financial intermediation.
1. Assistance to the MICM (US$3.17 million). (a) Streamlining the Ministry's procedures relating
to private sector activities. This sub-component was designed to help the two one-stop windows
established under the SAL (one for external trade and one for investment) to improve their organization and
procedures. (b) Support to the Privatization Commission This sub-component was to finance one year
of operating costs of the Privatization Commission, established in 1992 under a PPF and PHRD grant, and
consulting services to assist in the implementation of the Government's divestiture program, also for one
year. Government's budgetary allocations were to support the Commission's operating costs starting in
mid- 1994. Technical assistance was to be financed afterwards by proceeds from sale of public enterprises.
2. Assistance to the Chamber of Commerce, the Burkinabe Shipping Council (CBC), and the
National Office for External Trade (ONAC) (US$2.75 million). (a) Reorganization of the institutional
support structure. This component was designed to reorganize, privatize, and strengthen the support
structure of the Chamber of Commerce, CBC and ONAC. It was to transfer to the Government all tasks of
an administrative nature performed by the agencies, and to the Chamber of Commerce those providing
extension services to private businesses. It was to rationalize the management of warehouses and shipping
equipment that was under the control of the Chamber of Commerce and CBC. (b) Assistance to the
-2-



Chamber of Commerce This component was to strengthen the Chamber of Commerce's ability to assist
private businesses obtain the support they needed. It was to strengthen the Chamber's capacity to evaluate
private firms' needs for technical assistance, follow-up and assess results of this assistance. It was to
establish a data base to record all available local and foreign sources of assistance to private enterprises'
operations. It was to help private firms carry out feasibility studies and provide financial start-up support.
3. Financial sector component (US$0.81 million). (a) Assistance to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning. This component was to finance technical assistance to help the Ministry manage the
privatization process of financial institutions and improve the management of the Agency for Debt
Recovery. (b) Strengthening of financial intermediation. This component was to finance: audits of the
commercial banks prior to their privatization; a study to convert the Postal Services Agency and the
National Savings Agency into an independent financial institution within the postal system; a review of the
legal system to improve bad debt recovery; and a study to create long-term financing instruments and the
necessary legal and regulatory framework for their establishment.
Assessment of Components:
The project was a complex operation involving a large number of institutions (10 in total), most of which
with little experience with Bank procedures. The Government was ambivalent on private sector
development and reluctant to reduce its involvement in the management of the economy. Under these
circumstances, providing a large package of technical assistance (a total of 400 man/months was
envisaged) was not the most appropriate approach.
The strategic focus of the privatization program was short-term, targeting primarily a reduction of state
subsidies to loss-making public enterprises in the public sector. The institutional arrangements of the
privatization component were also deficient. The Privatization Commission was established as part of the
Ministry of Commerce. This resulted in a slow and overly centralized decision-making process, with
negative consequences on the Commission's decision-making ability. The combined effect of the slow and
cumbersome decision-making process and lack of Government's commitment was a significant obstacle in
moving forward the divestiture program. The objectives of the institutional reforms were relevant and
consistent with the project's overall objective insofar as they sought to address bureaucratic bottlenecks to
improve the business environment. However, private sector participation was not actively promoted during
the design stage and remained limited during implementation. As a result, the reforms did not fully address
the sector's needs. Measures under the financial sector component were relevant to the project's objective
and supported the development of the private sector.
The project over-estimated local capacity to implement the various components and placed unrealistic
expectations on the pace of the privatization program. Shortfalls in counterpart funding substantially
slowed down implementation of that component. Furthermore, during project preparation, insufficient
attention was given to the country's economic and social background, which was shifting from a centrally
planned to a more market-oriented economy, and the time lag required for the Government to adjust to the
changes and buy into the reform process. This underestimation had a negative impact on the pace of
project execution-particularly the privatization program, and was reflected in the Government's initial
lack of commitment. The SAR correctly identified the slow pace of the privatization program as a risk but
did not recommend adequate mitigating measures.
3.4 Revised Components.
Project implementation was slow, and two months before the initial closing date of December 31, 1997,
only US$2.2 million (about 30 percent) had been disbursed under the credit. Following the project's
- 3 -



mid-term review of June 1997, the Government, with intensive assistance from the newly-appointed Bank
resident representative, launched the preparation of a private sector workshop to discuss private sector
development issues with representatives of the public and private sectors and the donor community. The
workshop took place in October 1997. It gave the private sector an opportunity to make a number of
concrete recommendations for improving the business environment. The Government gave encouraging
signs that it was ready to follow up on them. The Government and the Bank concluded that the project
could be an effective instrument for implementing these recommendations, and more generally, the reforms
agreed under the highly indebted and poor countries (HIPC) initiative. The project was restructured on the
basis of an action plan based on the workshop proceedings, and the credit was extended by two years to
December 31, 1999. An amendment was presented to the Board in April 1998. The amendment involved
changes in the project description to include a new component relating to the telecommunications sector and
to modify the component on business laws. It also involved a modification of Credit allocation. Project
restructuring was as follows:
The telecommunications reform component (US$0.4 million) was added to open up the sector and
encourage private sector participation in the development of services. The reform component was to
develop policies and strategies for the sector, promote national consensus-building for the Government's
policy strategy, establish a legal and regulatory framework to foster competition as well as a regulatory
agency, and introduce competition in mobile telephone market.
The business laws component (US$0.3 million) was designed to help disseminate the new business laws
expected to become effective in January 1998 under the OHADA treaty, provide training to judges and
private operators to facilitate enforcement of the laws, and revise national laws to ensure their consistency
with the new framework. The OHADA treaty signed by Burkina Faso and a number of francophone
countries in 1993 aimed to streamline and update business legislation for member states through a uniform
set of laws, and to strengthen the legal and judicial security for enterprises through effective settlement of
disputes. Another objective was the promotion of arbitration as a means of settling contractual disputes
and facilitation of regional and international trade.
The matching fund within the Chamber of Commerce was canceled because of the Chamber's weak
capacity to execute it and because of the existence of a number of other similar funds managed by multiple
institutions. The study to review existing legislation on bad debt recovery was canceled because
regulations to deal with this issue were being adopted under the West African Economic and Monetary
Union (UEMOA) of which Burkina Faso is a member.
Two additional activities were added towards the end of the project: support for an agribusiness strategy
and a competitiveness study. The agribusiness strategy was to help restructure the fruit and vegetable
industry and identify entry points for potential sources of growth. The competitiveness study was the
result of a joint collaboration between the Bank and the Government that started in late 1998, at a time of
difficult dialogue between the Bank and the Government on the appropriate reforrn agenda for the country.
The private sector development project was not going well because of resistance by various parties to major
institutional reform, privatization and liberalization, which were perceived as World Bank dogma. As a
way of moving forward and generating ideas, the Government agreed in October 1998 to carry out a
comprehensive economic competitiveness study and analysis of sources of growth for Burkina Faso.
The closing date was extended a second time from December 31, 1999 to June 30, 2000 to allow the
Government to complete three specific ongoing activities in the areas of telecommunications reform,
privatization and support to the private sector.
- 4 -



Component                                               Cost (US$ million)
1. Assistance to the MICM                                      3.17
2. Assistance to the Chamber of Commerce,                      2.75
CBC and ONAC
3. Financial Sector Component                                  0.81
4. Telecoms Reforms                                            0.40
5. Implementation of the OHADA Laws                            0.30
Total                                            7.43
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated "unsatisfactory" because of poor project design and deficient risk analysis. The
project was complex in view of limited implementation capacity and weak Government commitment to
private sector development. When the project was approved, the adjustment program was not implemented
at a satisfactory pace. Performance indicators were detailed for each sub-component in the SAR, but they
were mostly to measure outputs instead of outcomes. The risk section did not provide a thorough analysis
of potential problems. Two main risks were identified. The first risk-- slow progress in privatizing public
enterprises and banks--was considered low because of the Government's commitment to the reform
program. The second risk was the business community's slow response to play an active role in the
institutional system to support private entrepreneurs. This risk was also considered low because of the
active participation of the Government and the private sector during preparation. The project pre-dates the
QAG review process.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is rated satisfactory. The main achievement of the project is its contribution to a
major shift in the Government's understanding of the strategic and development issues it is facing as the
new century begins. This shift was initiated towards the end of the project through the highly participatory
competitiveness study mentioned above. The study highlighted the need for the country to adopt a more
aggressive reform program if it were to make a significant impact on poverty. The Government used the
results to articulate a new development program that formned the basis for the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP) presented to the Board in June 2000. The project also helped the Government implement its
divestiture program, thereby reducing state subsidies and increasing firms' productivity and doubling
employment. Through lessons leamed from the divestiture program, the Government decided to extend the
privatization process to the infrastructure sectors--telecommunications, energy and air transport. The
project was instrumental in initiating reforms in the telecommunications sector and opening it up to
competition. Finally, the project was instrumental in strengthening the financial sector. The banking sector
was restructured, leading to increased competition with the entry of five new financial institutions.
The project was less successful in restructuring the institutional support structure to private entrepreneurs
and streamlining the administrative procedures for private sector activities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Assistance to the MICM.
(a) Streamlining of the Ministry's procedures relating to external trade and establishment of new
private businesses. This sub-component did not achieve its objective to improve the organization and
procedures of the two windows. Expected output for this sub-component was a reduction in the processing
time for investment code applications. A one-stop agency was created in 1994 to screen applications for
investment code benefits and register new enterprises. It became operational in 1997. Although service
standards were established to speed up the approval process, procedures remain cumbersome. The project
- 5 -



financed a study to recommend ways to eliminate unnecessary steps in setting up new businesses and
ensure that procedures are consistent with the new OHADA regulations. The FIAS study has highlighted
that, despite progress in streamlining the administrative procedures to better respond to the needs of new
businesses, these procedures could be further streamlined. Private enterprises still have to go through
several public agencies, six in total, to register their new business, despite the existence of the one-stop
agency. Since the majority of these new businesses are small enterprises, these successive administrative
steps represent a high cost to them, estimated to average 17 percent of their capital base. It is the
Government's intention to transfer the one-stop agency to the proposed "Maison de l'Entrepreneur". The
concept of the "Maison de I 'Entrepreneur" emerged during the national workshop of October 1997 as a
one-stop center to provide information to entrepreneurs and streamline administrative procedures. The
center will liaise with all existing agencies dealing with private entrepreneurs and provide support to their
associations. The project financed a feasibility study to define the center's activities, its structure, and
financing. The center is expected to become operational by the end of 2000.
This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory because its main institution-building objective was not
achieved.
(b) Support to the Privatization Commission This sub-component has achieved its overall objective to
complete the divestiture program encompassing the privatization or liquidation of 39 enterprises out of a
total of 44 in the initial program. Seven laws and decrees were enacted from 1991 to 1999 to authorize the
divestiture of these companies and to empower the privatization agency.
The physical targets set at appraisal have been met. In the first phase of the privatization program from
1991 to 1994, out of 22 enterprises to be privatized or liquidated, 13 were privatized and two research
centers were transferred back to their line Ministries because they had no profit orientation. Of the seven
remaining from the first phase, five were privatized and two liquidated. Out of 22 companies from the
second phase, 12 were privatized and 10 liquidated.
In terms of impact, the program contributed significantly to the reduction of state subsidies to firms from
CFAF 20 billion in 1991 to CFAF I billion in 1999. As of end-1999, privatization receipts and new
investments amounted to CFAF I I billion and CFAF 20 billion, or US$16 million and US$29 million
equivalent respectively. The program also resulted in an increase in employment despite some retrenchment
due to liquidations and downsizing in the railway company. Gross value added of the privatized firms
increased by more than 68 percent during the period.
The program's largest impact might be assessed against the Government's decision to extend privatization
to the so-called strategic infrastructure sectors (telecommunications, energy and air transport). Without the
exposure and gradual learning experience gained throughout the current program execution, expansion to
these sectors would not have taken place. A study to formulate a divestiture strategy for the remaining
public enterprises, including the remaining utilities and a number of small-scale enterprises, has been
completed. The study served as the basis for the preparation of a new privatization program in the
infrastructure sector.
Implementation of the divestiture program has taken much longer than initially expected, however. The
strategy formulation phase, from recruiting the advisor to Government selection of a final sale strategy,
took an average of 501 days. The centralized decision-making process with frequent cabinet involvement
resulted in the privatization of an average of three companies per year, compared to a regional average of
seven. The length of the process was detrimental to the financial situation of some of the companies to be
privatized, which needed urgent capital inflows. A new decree was enacted in 1998 to improve the process
-6 -



but resulted only in marginal changes with little impact. Moreover, the privatization strategy adopted by
the Government was not best practice from an economic standpoint. Bidders were guaranteed special
import protections without any indication on the phasing out of such a protection. On the other hand,
bidders were expected to retain all employees from firms to be privatized. Privatization of SOSUCO, the
sugar company (by far the largest transaction) raised serious doubt on the integrity of the entire
privatization program. The Government changed the rules of the game during the process and, eventually,
selected the lowest bidder (a price difference of 11 percent with the best offer) based on the investor's
promise to launch an ambitious investment program.
On the capacity building front, despite the shortcomings mentioned above, technical staff in the
privatization agency and in line ministries have considerably learned from the process. They have
familiarized themselves with best practices through technical assistance and study tours abroad. They are
now better equipped to handle the remaining transactions to be implemented under the new program.
This sub-component is rated satisfactory because it has achieved its quantitative targets and helped develop
capacity in the privatization commission. The privatization process is rated unsatisfactory, however,
because of its lengthiness and the inadequate handling of the largest transaction in the program.
Component 2. Institutional support: assistance to the Chamber of Commerce, the Burkinabe
Shipping Council (CBC) and the National Office for External Trade (ONAC). This component has
partially realized its objective to reorganize, privatize, and strengthen the institutional support structure.
Although the Chamber of Commerce has been privatized, it has kept some of its previous functions, but
more importantly it still operates as a public-sector institution. A new general assembly with
representatives from the private sector and sectoral commissions were established. In 1996, a new Board
of Directors was established by the general assembly, and a new general manager appointed by the Board
of Directors. This new structure brought a clearer definition of responsibilities among the agencies and a
disengagement from the Government. All enterprises are de facto members but do not pay membership
fees. Most of the Chamber's resources originate from fees collected for the use of its warehouses and
market facilities. The Chamber of Commerce provides market information to enterprises and support in
preparing investment code applications. It operates three professional training institutions. The project
also financed a study on reorganizing its human resources structure. Recommendations have been
implemented.
ONAC and CBC have not been privatized and continue to operate as public institutions. Their statutes
however were changed to allow representation of the private sector on their boards. They also continue to
be funded by the Government. Both institutions still need to define their respective role and position
themselves to achieve credibility with the private operators. This is particularly the case for ONAC which
is now attempting to position itself in the area of establishing and monitoring quality standards. On the
other hand, private operators do see a role for CBC, in particular in providing assistance in handling
products for small shippers. The agency needs however to move to a more privately oriented modus
operandi and improve its performance to also establish credibility with private operators.
This component is rated unsatisfactory because its main institution-building objective was not achieved.
Component 3. Financial sector component. This component has achieved its overall objective to
strengthen the financial sector.
(i) Support to the Ministry of Finance
-7 -



(a) Privatization of banks.  The banking sector was restructured, with the privatization and
recapitalization of the main banks. Final agreements for the privatization of the Banque pour le
Financement du Commerce et des Investissements au Burkina was reached in 1997, and the bank was
renamed Societe Generale des Banques au Burkina. The Banque Nationale de Developpement was
liquidated in January 1998. The Banque Arabe Libyenne Burkinabe was taken over by the Banque du
Commerce du Burkina. Two new foreign banks (Ecobank and Bank of Africa) and three non-bank
financial institutions entered into operation in 1997-98. All banks are observing the capital adequacy ratio
of 4 percent currently in force, and five banks are already observing the revised ratio target of 8 percent
established by BCEAO, the regional central bank, in mid-1999. All banks should be in compliance with
the new target by end of 2001. The restructuring of the banking sector has also led to increased
competition.
(b) Restructuring of the Postal Services Agency and the National Savings Agency. The restructuring of
the Postal Agency and the National Savings Agency was completed in April 2000, with separation of
accounts from Treasury. Agreements have been reached on the compensation of debt between the Treasury
and Sonapost.
(c) Creation of new financial instruments for long-term lending Several new institutions were created
including two leasing companies.
(d) Support to Microfinance Sector. In January 1997 the Government and other micro-finance
institutions adopted the PARMEC law that regulates micro credit financial institutions in the UEMOA
countries. A micro-finance supervision unit was established within the Ministry of Finance. The unit was
strengthened to enforce the PARMEC law. The project financed equipment and training for the
microfinance unit in the Ministry of Finance. The project also financed a study to help the Government
define a strategy for the sustainable development of the microfinance sector. The conclusions of the study
will be discussed during a workshop which the Government will hold in the first quarter of 2001 to
formulate such a strategy.
(ii) Strengthening of the Agency for Debt Recovery. The objective of this component was achieved. The
Agency for Debt Recovery has so far recovered 17 percent of the total amount of bad debt transferred
during the period 1991-1999, corresponding to about CFAF 10.9 billion out of CFAF 64 billion. Of the
total amount of bad debt, the proportion of private debt amounted to CFAF 27 billion, of which CFAF 9.7
billion was recovered, or 36 percent, which is a commendable result. The proportion of public debt was
CFAF 19 billion, of which CFAF 1.2 billion was recovered, or 6 percent. It is not expected that the
remaining balance on the total amount of bad debt will be recovered. The financial audit of the Agency
was completed. Training of agency staff was also completed, as was the purchase of 12 computers.
Given the Agency's positive performance, it was proposed to create a more permanent, privately oriented
structure for bad debt recovery beyond the project. The Bank will assist the Government in exploring
experiences with a similar agency in Cameroon to evaluate the possibility for the agency to continue
operating on a private basis.
(iii) Revise laws governing bad checks and delinquent debtors. This component was dropped because
of adoption of a new law at the regional level.
The overall project impact on the financial sector is considered highly positive. The project also helped
establish an institutional framework that will be used to monitor the microfinance institutions and formulate
- 8 -



a broad policy for that sector. A note on the financial sector was prepared to define the next interventions
to further develop the financial sector.
Consequently, this component is rated satisfactory.
Telecommunications Reform Component. This component has achieved its objective to initiate reforms
in the telecommunications sector by implementing a sector strategy and a regulatory framework. The
sector's restructuring program was successfully launched and has achieved tangible results on the ground.
The Government adopted a sector policy to open up the sector to competition. To this end, two laws were
also adopted by the Government: one to establish the legal and regulatory framework of the sector, the
other to authorize the privatization of ONATEL, the public telephone company. The Government has
agreed to transfer management control of ONATEL to a private operator. The studies on the regulatory
framework were completed, and basic regulations were adopted by the Council of Ministers in February
2000. A regulatory authority was established in November 1999. Calls for bids were issued in December
1999, and two mobile telephone licenses were granted in May 2000, which brought in a total of US$19
million in license fees for the Government, i.e. more than the proceeds of all privatizations supported by the
project (US$16 million). The privatization of ONATEL has been launched. Advisory services are
currently being recruited to prepare the sale. More importantly, ONATEL has rebalanced its tariffs: a
reduction of more than 50 percent on international traffic and more than 30 percent on long-distance traffic
became effective on May 1, 2000. This component is rated satisfactory with respect to sectoral policies
and physical targets.
Business laws. This component has achieved its objectives. After a slow start, dissemination efforts were
successfully completed with the information component. The training program for judges and private
operators was completed. The new court register has been set up in the two largest cities. Harmonization
of national laws with OHADA laws is underway. Studies to simplify administrative procedures to set up
new businesses in keeping with new OHADA laws have been completed. Consequently, this component is
rated satisfactory.
Support to a new agribusiness strategy. At Government's request, the Bank has provided support to the
restructuring of the fruit and vegetable industry. Given the structure of the Burkinabe economy and the
identification of untapped potential in the production and export of non-traditional products, it was agreed
that the analysis of the value chain for the horticultural sector could be a good entry point to analyze the
sources of growth for the country. The project financed study tours for Government staff and private
exporters to gain better understanding of success stories (such as in Kenya) and a workshop to disseminate
findings. An action plan has been agreed with private operators to improve the sector's competitiveness.
Competitiveness study. The project financed a competitiveness study that has triggered a significant
turnaround in the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the appropriate reform agenda for the
country. Since its completion in April 1999, workshops and cabinet-level meetings provided a forum for
discussions between the Government, the Bank, donors and civil society that have led to heightened
awareness and consensus-building on how to move forward on the country's development program. As
discussed above, the study has set the stage for Burkina Faso's new development program and put in place
a more participatory process between the Government and the Bank in developing a new private sector
development strategy, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, and the CAS under preparation. The
Governnent is preparing a private sector development program to implement its new strategy.
Summary rating of output
-9-



In the initial program, one major component (the financial sector) is rated satisfactory, one minor
component (institutional support) is rated unsatisfactory and the rating for the other component (assistance
to the Ministry of Commerce, including privatization) is mixed. The three new components are rated
satisfactory. Overall, the program is rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
n.a.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project helped develop or strengthen the following institutions, as discussed above: the privatization
agency, the loan recovery agency, the postal services agency, and the national savings agency. Training
under the project was substantial and helped build capacity in best practices in privatization in line
ministries and technical staff of the privatization unit. The project also helped the Government move from
a cautious to a more engaged position in opening up sectors to competition and divesting itself of the more
critical utility sectors. On the other hand, the project was partially successful in building the capacity of
the Chamber of Commerce, the CBC and ONAC to better respond to the needs of the private sector.
Accordingly, the overall rating on the institutional development impact of the project is rated partially
satisfactory.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc re-established the competitiveness of the economy and triggered
strong growth. The devaluation provided a more favorable environment for some of the project's activities,
such as divestiture of public enterprises and restructuring of the financial sector. It also increased the
initial IDA credit allocation in local currency, which allowed the Government to achieve more than initially
expected. On the other hand, the availability of large donor resources for private sector development made
it difficult for the Government to adequately coordinate a variety of programs that were not always
consistent among themselves. Another factor was the difficulty to attract private partners willing to invest
in the banking sector, which slowed down the restructuring of the financial sector. In general, it has been
difficult to attract solid domestic investors with the financial capacity required to meet investment needs to
rehabilitate the privatized companies.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Weak Governnent commitment to private sector development in the early phase delayed project
implementation. A waiver on two conditions of effectiveness (to revise the statutes of the Chamber of
Commerce and elections of the members of its executive bodies) had to be granted to avoid a further
extension beyond the January 31, 1994 deadline, more than 10 months after Board approval. Insufficient
counterpart funding was a recurrent problem throughout project implementation. Cumbersome procedures
for public enterprise divestiture, requiring ministerial decisions at each step of the process, considerably
delayed the divestiture program.
- 10 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project unit has provided weak leadership during most of the implementation period.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Detailed project costs and financing tables are presented in Annex 2. The disbursement profile reflects the
project's slow pace of implementation, compounded by recurrent shortages of local counterpart funding.
Over the period 1994-97, the project disbursed US$2.22 million (31%) of the total credit, and US$3.87
million (55%) between project restructuring and the end of the project, representing a total disbursement of
US$6.09 million (86%).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is likely. It hinges on the broad dissemination of the analyses and conclusions of the
competitiveness study. Recent Bank/Government dialogue on the country's competitiveness has
demonstrated the Government's commitment to accelerating the reforms supported by the project. The
Government is likely to continue implementing the divestiture program at an accelerated pace and to
complete reforms in the telecommunications sector. Increased competition in the financial sector is likely to
lead to improved services and lower costs. The OHADA business legislation has been disseminated, but
basic weaknesses in the judiciary system remain to be corrected, including through increased funding for
operating expenses. The institutional support structure for private sector development remains to be
streamlined and fully privatized. Govemment's direct or indirect allocations to the Chamber of Commerce,
ONAC and CBC should be discontinued.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Bank is considering a new private sector development operation as a follow-up project in the following
areas:
e Support to divestiture program. The Government carried out a strategic analysis of the State
portfolio of some 53 PEs. Based on the analysis, it will determine which companies will be part of the
divestiture program. The project will support the implementation of the additional program;
3   Telecommunications reform The program will build on the initial results of the telecommunications
reform successfully launched under this project to continue providing assistance in: (i) building
capacity of policy makers and telecommunications regulators; (ii) establishing a rural
telecommunications strategy and funding mechanisms and undertaking initial implementation; and (iii)
completing the privatization of ONATEL.
*  Information and new technology to (i) establish a strategy on building an enabling environment for
developing a country-wide Information Infrastructure; (ii) develop detailed policy on key building
blocks of readiness of Internet and E-commerce throughout the country; and (iii) implement priority
actions and applications.
*   Further reforms in the financial sector will be executed at the regional level, under regional programs.
The BCEAO project currently in preparation will strengthen the regulatory framework at the regional
level and develop new payments systems. The Bank will continue assisting the Government in
finalizing the microfinance strategy to subsequently define specific areas of intervention in the
implementation phase.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
- 11 -



unsatisfactory. The project was complex and poorly designed, including a large number of studies with
little relevance to private sector development. The objective of the project was too narrowly focused on
creating an institutional environment, and not enough on the purpose of this effort. Given the
Government's weak commitment to privatization, the SAR was optimistic as to the pace of the program.
Contrary to what was stated in the SAR risk section, there was insufficient dialogue between the
Government and the private sector during project preparation. The project included too many conditions of
credit effectiveness, resulting in a ten-month lag between approval and effectiveness. If these conditions
were deemed critical for the success of the project, they should have been fulfilled before negotiations. It is
not clear, however, whether these conditions were critical to justify delay in credit effectiveness: elections
by private entrepreneurs of members of the Chamber of Commerce, bid issuance for the reorganization of
the institutional structure, or Government adoption of appropriate legislation conferring collection
privileges of tax services to the Agency for Debt Recovery.
7.2 Supervision:
During the early years of project implementation supervision was unsatisfactory. However, despite delays
in meeting effectiveness conditions and difficulties with critical institutional aspects, serious problems in
counterpart funding and procurement, implementation progress was consistently rated satisfactory.
Follow-up letters did not raise any substantive issues. Missions did not follow up on previous
recommendations and agreed actions. Moreover, the project suffered from a series of changes in the
organization of the Africa Region. Project management was transferred to a small trade unit created in
1995 in the Africa Region. The unit was later dismantled during the 1996 re-organization and the project
remained unsupervised for a year during the transition period.
From mid-1997 to credit closing, supervision has been highly satisfactory. During that period, the project
has been supervised by the same task manager and essentially the same team members. Thorough
supervision and continued commitment from the team helped the Government move on its reform agenda.
The resident representative was closely involved in day-to-day problem solving. The Country Director
provided the necessary resources and quality support needed to the team, which resulted in establishing a
better policy dialogue with the Borrower. Approval of the two extensions enabled the Government to
initiate a series of new activities that have helped create a new environment for private sector development.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated marginally satisfactory. It was unsatisfactory in the early years
because of poor quality at entry and inadequate supervision. In the past three years, however, the Bank
sharply focused its supervision effort and used the project as an instrument for a significant turnaround in
its policy dialogue with the Government.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's commitment to the reform program and to the project objectives was lacking. Its
involvement in preparation was minimal. Governmenfs ownership of the project was also minimal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Insufficient counterpart funding of project institutions and inadequate qualifications of key project staff
were a perennial problem. Procedures for project implementation were slow and cumbersome. Expected
changes in the institutional framework for private sector development have not taken place. Instruments for
- 12 -



an effective dialogue between the Government and the private sector have not been used. It is important to
note that towards the end of the project, new Government leadership demonstrated strong interest to use
the project to move the reform agenda, as illustrated by the approach used to implement the competitiveness
study.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementation unit was inadequate for most of the project's life.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. Government commitment to private sector
development has been weak until recently. Project implementation suffered from inadequate funding and
lack of leadership.
8. Lessons Learned
Technical assistance is not a substitute for weak Government commitment. In the absence of a shared
vision among all stakeholders on what a project is expected to achieve, little change can be expected. Other
instruments than a large technical assisfance project should have been used to develop this shared vision.
The private sector should have been more actively involved at all stages.
The Government did not seem committed to really change the institutional framework for private sector
development, and despite a number of studies financed by the project, little was achieved in this respect.
Capacity building is incremental and part of a long-term process. It requires strong motivation for change
in recipient institutions.
To be effective, privatization should be part of a clear strategic vision, shared by all stakeholders.
Emphasis on transactions for short-term gain is not appropriate. Transactions should be embedded in clear
sector policies.
Close donor coordination is essential in countries such as Burkina Faso, which are highly dependent on
external assistance. The Bank, in close consultation with interested donors, should support a government
program, based on a common approach.
Special conditions for credit effectiveness should be avoided as much as possible. If a condition is critical
for project success, it should be a condition of negotiations.
Supervision should be systematic and issues-oriented. Continuity is essential. Close attention of Bank
management is essential. The contrast between the quality of supervision during the first and second parts
of project implementation is striking.
Extending the closing date when performance is unsatisfactory is a difficult call. In this case, the two
extensions served Burkina Faso well, if only for the competitiveness study, which was instrumental in
changing deeply entrenched mentalities, and laying the ground for a much energized reform program. The
Bank team sensed that the Govemnment was ready to provide a stronger leadership for moving the reform
agenda.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 13 -



This is the summarized version of the Borroweres contribution to the ICR.
DESCRIPTION DU PROJET
Titre                              Projet d'Assistance au Secteur Prive (PASP)
Credit IDA                         NO 2472-BUR
Date d'entree en vigueur           31 Janvier 1994
Date de cloture                    30 juin 2000
Couit                              neuf millions de dollars US (4 milliards FCFA)
(sept millions en pret IDA, Deux millions
en contrepartie nationale)
Bailleurs de fonds                 Banque Mondiale
Localisation du Projet             Envergure nationale
Organisme de tutelle               Ministere du Commerce, de l'Industrie et
de l'Artisanat (MCIA)
Organe de mise en muvre            Cellule de coordination
Personnel implique                 06 agents (3 cadres + 3 agents d'execution)
Duree                              contractuelle 3 ans (1994-1997)
lere prorogation accordee 2 ans (1997-1999)
2eme prorogation - 6 mois (janv. a juin 2000)
PREFACE
Le present document constitue le rapport de fin d'execution du Projet d'Assistance au Secteur Prive
(PASP) au Burkina Faso qui a fait l'objet du credit NO 2472-BUR du 15 juillet 1993 d'un montant
equivalant A cinq millions cent mille (5.100.000) Droits de Tirages Speciaux, soit quatre (04) milliards de F
CFA. Le credit sera clos le 30 juin 2000 au lieu du 31 decembre 1997 prevu initialement dans l'accord de
credit. Ce rapport est base sur les differents documents du Projet et les informations foumies par les
composantes et le secteur prive. C'est ici le lieu de remercier le secteur prive, la Banque Mondiale, les
composantes, le Premier Ministere et les departements ministeriels pour tous les appuis apportes lors de
l'execution de ce Projet.
INTRODUCTION
Dans le cadre du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS) mis en ceuvre depuis 1991 avec
l'appui du Fonds Monetaire International (FMI) et de la Banque Mondiale, le Burkina Faso a entrepris une
serie de reformes economiques visant le desengagement de l'Etat des secteurs concurrentiels et une
liberalisation de l'dconomie nationale.
Le secteur prive est desormais reconnu comme le moteur de la croissance economique. Afin de
creer un environnement propice A son developpement, les autorites burkinabe et la Banque Mondiale ont
e1abore le Projet d'Assistance au Secteur Prive (PASP).
L'objectif principal du Projet etait de permettre le developpement institutionnel des organismes d'
etat qui assurent des services administratifs au secteur prive et des intermediaires financiers A travers cinq
(05) composantes:
*   composante secteur prive
*   composante secteur financier
*   composante Privatisation
- 14 -



* composante juridique
* composante secteur telecommunications
Au demarrage du projet, seulement trois (03) volets etaient prevus. Il s'agit des appuis au Ministere
du Commerce, au secteur financier, et a la restructuration des institutions d'appui au secteur prive. Suite A
la prorogation du projet deux (02) autres volets ont e  ajoutes; il s'agit des secteurs juridique et des
telecommunications.
EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS PAR COMPOSANTE
4.1. Resultats acquis
4.1.1 Composante secteur prive
* La Commission de Concertation Etat Secteur Prive sur les reformes du systeme d'appui au secteur
prive par arrete N 92-058/MCIM/SG du 18 septembre 1992 qui a e  remplacee par une Commission
Permanente de Concertation Etat / Secteur Prive a beneficie pour son fonctionnement d'un
photocopieur, d'une motocyclette YAMAHA Dame et d'equipements informatiques.
* L'elaboration d'une strategie en faveur du secteur prive en mars 1999; ce document traduit la volonte
du Gouvemement de mettre en ceuvre tous les moyens dont il dispose pour favoriser le developpement
du secteur prive et la croissance des entreprises;
3 le fmancement de l1edition de quinze (15.000) depliants publicitaires a l'intention des operateurs
economiques; le depliant presente le Centre des Guichets Uniques, donne ses objectifs et des
informations sur les diff6rentes prestations;
3 la forte presence du prive dans les organes de decision suite a la restructuration de l'ONACet du CBC;
* la mise en place d'un reseau informatique pour le CGU afin d'accelerer les traitements des dossiers;
* la reduction des delais de traitement des dossiers au niveau des guichets uniques suite A la formation
des agents ; les gains de temps sont principalement imputables:
* au principe de regroupement geographique des procedures,
* A la specialisation plus poussee des agents,
* au reamenagement de certaines procedures.
4.1.2 - Composante secteur financier
TRESOR
La formation des agents a permis aux differents services (le service de suivi des institutions de
micro-finance et le service monnaie et credit), d'accroitre substantiellement leurs capacites d'analyse et de
traitement des dossiers. Les connaissances acquises ont perrnis 6galement de faciliter la preparation et
l'execution des missions d'inspections et de contr6le des institutions de micro-finance.
Depuis l'acquisition du materiel informatique, l'on note une certaine fluidite dans le traitement des
dossiers et dans la confection des statistiques sur les institutions financieres, les services beneficiaires etant,
avant la livraison des equipements informatiques, confrontes A un manque crucial de micro-ordinateurs.
Les audits finances par le PASP dans le cadre de la restructuration des banques ont servi de base A I'
assainissement de leurs bilans.
SONAPOST
La formation a ete benefique pour le personnel. En effet, la formation en marketing a permis la
- 15 -



sensibilisation de 44 agents sur leur responsabilite en ce qui conceme l'accueil de la clientele. Ceci a eu
comme resultat, une amelioration de la qualit6 des prestations de la SONAPOST et un accroissement du
chiffre d'affaires.
L'obtention du materiel informatique a permis d'ameliorer le traitement des informations et surtout de la
comptabilite. Les terminaux et le nouveau serveur permettront de traiter les operations en temps reel et
donc de reduire le delai d'attente aux guichets.
La s6paration effective des flux generes par les services financiers d'avec ceux des services postaux.
Cette separation devra permettre A:
o   la SONAPOST et au TRESOR d'envisager leurs relations sur des bases nouvelles et plus saines,
*   A la SONAPOST d'assainir sa gestion et d'ameliorer la qualite des prestations offertes au public,
*   au Cheque Postal de retrouver sa credibilite avec le retour envisage du CCP A la compensation
interbancaire.
BRCB
*   La mise en place d'un reseau informatique : les tAches de gestion autrefois executees manuellement,
s'effectuent maintenant avec plus d'aisance. Cela a permis de maitriser le volume trop important
d'informations A gerer, reduisant ainsi le temps de travail lie A chaque poste. L'affectation de dix (10)
terminaux informatiques dans les differents postes de travail a permis aux utilisateurs de consulter et de
suivre l'evolution des traitements effectues sur les dossiers.
* L'acquisition de micro-ordinateurs portables : leur portabilite a permis aux differents agents d'eviter le
transport des dossiers lors de leurs rencontres avec les ddbiteurs et les avocats. En outre, ils ont permis
aux agents d'effectuer des contr6les sur le terrain pendant leurs missions en provinces.
-   L'acquisition de micro-ordinateurs: la configuration mise en place (reseau Ethernet) a permis au
secretariat de faciliter certaines taches administratives.
* La communication entre secretaires, notamment I'echange de documents, de meme que leur impression
sont desormais maitris6s.
*   La formation de l'informaticien: elle a permis au technicien informaticien de prendre en charge
l'administration de l'ensemble du reseau surtout au niveau du systeme. Cette prise en charge lui confere
les aptitudes suivantes:
-      Gestion et administration du reseau;
-      personnalisation de 1'environnement,
-      maintenance des applications.
4.1.3 - Composante Privatisation
* sur 44 entreprises A privatiser:
-      22 ont e  privatisees,
-      11 ont ete liquidees ou sont en cours de liquidation,
-      03 entreprises ont ete retirees du programme (dont une restituee A son ancien proprietaire et deux
affectees au Ministere des enseignement secondaire, superieur et de la recherche scientifique (MESSR) A
des fins de recherches et huit sont en cours de privatisation .
Une etude sommaire des performances de 09 entreprises privatisees demontre que l'impact economique des
privatisations est positif .
*   Sur l'emploi: Les privatisations se sont traduites dans un premier temps par des compressions de
personnel, puis ulterieurement par des embauches;
*   Sur l1'volution de l'activite et des performances: la progression est moderee en termes de volume
d'activites, mais nettement sensible en terme de resultat et d'investissement, donc en termes d'imp6ts
- 16 -



per,us par l'Etat;
* L'amelioration des performances economiques et financieres des societes privatisees s'est traduite:
- Par une evolution positive du resultat net de la plupart des entreprises: sur 16 entreprises, 03
seulement ont realise des pertes en 1997 ; les autres societes etaient beneficiaires ; cette situation s'
explique par l'introduction de methodes rationnelles de gestion, toute chose qui a pernis
l'augmentation de la capacit6 de production des entreprises privatis6es;
- Une evolution positive du chiffre d'affaires: sur 16 entreprises privatisees, 15 ont enregistre une
augmentation de leur chiffre d'affaires;
- Une evolution positive de la valeur ajout6e la valeur ajoutee a evolue en dents de scie. Cette valeur
ajoutee a surtout augmente en 1998. Cela temoigne de la creation de richesses par les entreprises
privatisees dans une certaine mesure;
- Un accroissement notable des investissements nouveaux lies A la necessite pour les repreneurs de
moderniser les outils de production (19,8 milliards FCFA d'investissements);
* La contribution des entreprises privatisees a l'assainissement des finances publiques;
* La reduction des depenses budgetaires : il y a lieu de souligner particulierement la suppression de la
prise en charge des salaires des subventions et des exonerations fiscales et douanieres;
*   L'accroissement des recettes: 1'ensemble des recettes financieres liees aux transactions entre l'Etat et
les repreneurs a rapporte au Tresor Public la somme de 10,5 milliards de Francs FCFA A la date du 31
decembre 1999.
*   Par ailleurs, les entreprises privatisees ont verse A l'Etat au titre de l'imp6t sur le benefice industriel et
commercial la somme de 2,5 milliards de Francs CFA A la date du 31 decembre 1999.
4.1.4 - Composante juridique
-   les seminaires se sont deroules a la satisfaction des seminaristes tant au plan de l'organisation que du
contenu des presentations. Les magistrats desornais appliquent tous le "droit OHADA" notamment en
ce qui conceme les procedures de recouvrement et les voies d'execution;
*   recrutement de contractuels pour la reprise et l'immatriculation retroactive des declarations effectuees
depuis le l er janvier 1998 comme si elles l'avaient ete ds l'origine; le numero de RCCM qutelles
auraient recu dans cette hypothese leur sera respectivement affectee et un dossier individuel leur sera
affecte;
*   la version definitive du rapport relatif a la mise en conformite des textes nationaux aux dispositions de
l'OHADA permet une plus juste apprehension des questions de choix methodologiques qui se posent
dans le cadre de la problematique de la mise en conformite.
4.1.5 - Composante secteur telecommunications
* L'adoption de la loi 052/98/AN portant reforme du secteur des telecommunications;
* L'adoption d'un document de politique sectorielle;
* Le dossier d'appel d'offres pour l'attribution de deux licences de telephonie mobile a et lance le 15
decembre 1999;
* Les textes reglementaires comme le regime tarifaire et le regime d'interconnexion sont en cours d'
adoption;
* Les autres textes d'application de la loi sont en cours d'elaboration par le consultant;
* L'adoption du decret portant statuts de l'Autorite de Regulation le 20 decembre 1999;
* La tenue du forum national sur la reforme du secteur les 28 et 29 avril 1999;
* La formation en regulation de trois membres de la cellule;
* L'acquisition d'une somme d'experience avec le voyage d'etudes d'une importante delegation conduite
- 17 -



par le Secretaire d'Etat aux Telecommunications en Amerique du sud.
* La cellule de coordination au sein du Ministere de la Communication est maintenant pleinement
fonctionnelle, les moyens materiels ayant ete mis en place par le PASP.
4.2    - Insuffisances
4.2.1 Composante secteur prive (CCIA-B ; ONAC ; CBC ; CGU)
* D'une facon generale, la restructuration des structures d'appui a accuse du retard pour diverses raisons.
* L'adoption des nouveaux statuts de l'ONAC et du CBC s'est faite seulement courant 1998.
* Les dernieres instances de decision ont ete mises en place en septembre 1999.
*   Au niveau du CGU, si des progres ont e  accomplis en matiere de reduction des delais de certaines
formalites administratives, les procedures administratives restent encore a simplifier. Le CGU installe a
Bobo est partiellement fonctionnel.
*   Une sous evaluation du projet d'informatisation du CGU n'a pas permis d'achever la mise en place du
reseau informnatique (logiciels et cablage non prevus dans l'appel d'offTes).
4.2.2 Composante secteur financier
TRESOR
Les insuffisances que l'on peut relever a ce niveau sont:
3 Le volet formation : la formation des agents a 6te partiellement executee en raison de calendriers non
conformes a ceux de certaines institutions de fornation. Sur 14 formations programmees, 08 ont ete
effectivement realisees.
*   Le volet service consultant: le resultat reste mitige et les attentes non satisfaites au regard du champ de
l1'tude non totalement couvert par les consultants,
3   Le volet equipement: celui-ci a connu une realisation tardive. Ce qui ne permet pas de juger a I'heure
actuelle son impact reel sur les services. Mais d'ores et dejA on note une certaine fluidite dans le
traitement des dossiers et dans la confection des statistiques.
SONAPOST
On peut relever a ce niveau les insuffisances suivantes:
*   Le volet 6quipements: la lourdeur administrative constatee dans les procedures de passation des
marches.
* Le non-respect des delais de livraison par les foumisseurs;
* La non prise en compte de certaines preoccupations exprimees par l'institution paraissent
fondamentales (equipement des centres de tri).
* Tout cela a eu pour consequence la livraison tardive du materiel destine a la SONAPOST.
BRCB
* La prise en charge de l'environnement reseau n'est toujours pas effective. Cela constitue un handicap
pour l'institution, car la gestion des stations leur echappe.
* II en est de meme pour le transfert de fichier, la maintenance systeme et d'application a distance.
*   De facon generale, tout le protocole de communication (TCP/IP) n'est toujours pas maitris6.
4.2.3 - Composante Privatisation
- 18 -



Le programme de privatisation a accuse un retard dans la realisation de ses objectifs A cause des
contraintes suivantes:
* Un dMlai extremement long dexecution des differentes etapes du processus de privatisation, en grande
partie dui A la lourdeur du processus de decision.
*   Un manque de programme de communication pour informer le public et les investisseurs potentiels sur
ses enjeux majeurs et son role cle dans la politique de developpement economique A moyen terme.
4.2.4 - Composante juridique
* Le demarrage des seminaires de sensibilisation a accuse un grand retard. Consequence, le demier
seminaire programme ne pourra pas 8tre finance par le PASP.
*   Seule la formation des greffiers aux nouveaux formulaires et l'application des dispositions de l'Acte
Uniforme de l'OHADA au Registre du Commerce de Ouagadougou sont effectives.
4.2.5 - Composante secteur telecommunications
*   Les travaux de la reforme ont mis du temps A demarrer;
*   Le recrutement du juriste s'est fait de facon tardive.
ANALYSE CRITIQUE DE L'ACTION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
ET DE CELLE DE LA PARTIE NATIONALE
5.1 Appreciation de l'action de la Banque Mondiale au cours de l'execution du Projet
5.1.1 Principales d6cisions ayant favorise I'execution du Projet
3   Le recrutement d'un comptable d'une secretaire venant du prive, et aussi d'un nouvel auditeur
(SOFIDEC) au profit du projet;
*   Les differentes decisions de prorogation du Projet (31 decembre 99 etjuin 2000);
* La tenue de l'atelier d'octobre 1997 sur le secteur prive;
* La tenue d'un mini atelier sur l'assistance au secteur prive (novembre 1999);
_ La restitution de l'etude sur la competitivite et les sources de croissance au Burkina Faso.
5.1.2 Principaux elements ayant freine l'execution du Projet
*   La decision de recruter un seul cabinet pour auditer les comptes du PASP et I'assister dans la gestion
du systeme comptable. Le logiciel GESPROJ propose par le cabinet (ARTHUR ANDERSEN) n'etait
pas satisfaisant;
*   La lenteur des reponses relatives aux avis de non-objection ont entrain^ des retards dans 1'execution des
marches (surtout pendant la periode de octobre 1996 A juillet 1997);
*   La forte mobilite des superviseurs : en six ans, le Projet a connu cinq superviseurs;
* Le manque de conformite des procadures de passation de marche de la Banque Mondiale avec celles
nationales entraine souvent des retards dans les passations de marches;
*   L'absence de suivi du Projet: jusqu'en juillet 1997, aucune dvaluation A mi-parcours du Projet n'avait
ete effectuee par la Banque Mondiale, alors que la date initiale de cloture etait fixee au 31 decembre
1997.
*   Mieux, d'octobre 1996 A juillet 1997, le Projet est reste sans superviseur. En effet, en septembre 1996,
un superviseur etait affecte au PASP et en novembre 1996, une mission de supervision fut realisee par
- 19 -



ce demier. Et depuis lors, le Projet n'a recu ni d'aide-memoire de ladite mission, ni de messages, malgre
les efforts de la cellule de coordination d'entrer en contact avec ledit superviseur;
*   L'identification et la preparation du Projet par la Banque Mondiale a et peu satisfaisante. En effet,
certains documents de base tels que le manuel de procedure, n'ajamais existe au PASP. Les b6n6fices
attendus du Projet etaient decrits en des termes tres generaux. Ce qui rend 1'evaluation difficile.
*   Les relations assez difficiles avec certains superviseurs ont influe negativement sur 1'execution de ce
Projet (incomprehension, jugements non fondes, manque de concertation, d6cision unilaterale);
*   La decision de retenir 50% des demandes de remboursement pour justifier l'avance initiale a bloque les
dernieres activites du Projet pour insuffisance de tr6sorerie;
* Le changement du cadre du Projet : initialement Ioge au sein de la Direction des Etudes et de la
Planification du Ministere du Commerce, de l'Industrie et de l'Artisanat, le Projet a et transforme par
la suite en une structure autonome, sans aucune mesure d'accompagnement, principalement pour ce qui
conceme les charges de fonctionnement. Cet etat de fait a ete une entrave A la bonne execution des
activites du Projet.
*   Les difficultes du demarrage: elles sont dues en partie A l'inadaptation des conditions suspensives liees
aux versements des fonds de demarrage.
5.2- Appreciation de la partie nationale au cours de 1'ex6cution du Projet
5.2.1 Principales decisions ayant favorise I'execution du Projet
* La tenue de I'Assemblee g6n6rale des Chefs de Projet en Juin 1995, d'ou des decisions importantes
relatives A la bonne marche des projets ont e  prises. Il s'agit entre autres, du recrutement des chefs de
projets,
-   Le pilotage de la reforme des structures d'appui par la Commission de Concertation Etat / Secteur
Privi(CPCE/SP) nationale avec l'appui de consultants intemationaux;
*   Le desengagement de I'Etat de certains secteurs juges auparavant strategiques tels que le secteur des
telecommunications, le secteur du transport aerien, et le secteur de l'energie...
*   Les decisions prises pour alleger le processus de privatisation ; il s'agit entre autres de la simplification
du dispositif institutionnel, du renforcement des capacites au sein du secretariat permanent et du
lancement de la campagne de communication sur le programme de privatisation.
* L'implication financieres des composantes A certaines activites par des prefinancements pour permettre
l'execution des actions programmees
*   Le financement du budget de fonctionnement de la CPCE/SP par les institutions d'appui.
5.2.2- Principaux elements ayant freine l'execution du Projet
*   La definition du Projet a ete peu satisfaisante et les termes de la Convention etaient assez imprecis;
*   La faible participation de l'Etat au budget du projet; cette faiblesse s'est traduite par l'irregularite et
l'insuffisance de l'apport de l'Etat. Au cours de ces deux dernieres annees, l'absence de la contrepartie
de l'Etat a entrave le bon fonctionnement du Projet;
*   Le faible effectif de la cellule de coordination (trois cadres, une secretaire de direction) face A la gestion
de dix composantes appartenant a cinq ministeres;
*   La forte mobilite du personnel ; elle s'est traduite par le depart de plusieurs agents du projet. En effet,
en six ans, l'on compte: trois responsables A la tete du Projet, quatre comptables, cinq charges d'
etudes.
*   Cet etat de fait s'explique par l'absence de coherence dans le traitement des agents comparativement
aux autres projets pourtant finances par le meme bailleur de fonds.
- 20 -



5.3 - Autres appr6ciations
53.1- Evaluation de l'efficacite des cabinets, consultants ou fournisseurs ayant particip a ila
realisation du Projet
Le choix des cabinets, consultants ou foumisseurs pour la realisation de certaines prestations n'a pas
toujours ete judicieux. Certains consultants intemationaux ont simplement abandonne NW&tude sans laisse
d'adresses. Au niveau de certains foumisseurs, les delais de livraison n'ont pas toujours ete respectes. Ces
insuffisances ont rejailli negativement dans les delais de mise en ceuvre des activites, et dans certains cas, le
materiel livre n'etait pas conforme.
5.3.2- Evaluation des performances du Projet par les composantes
Le Projet a souffert des changements qui se sont operes au gre des circonstances conjoncturelles.
Certaines composantes ont assiste impuissantes a la suppression de certaines rubriques, pourtant inscrites
dans les activites initiales du Projet. Beaucoup d'activites hors programme ont ete executees souvent au
detriment de celles programmees (Etude sur la competitivite et sources de croissance de l'economie
nationale, Relance de la fili&re fruits et 1egumes) .
Consequences: certaines activites initialement programmees n'ont pas pu se realiser avant la date de cl6ture
pour insuffisance de ressources financi&res.
5.4 - Evaluation des performances du Projet par le secteur prive
* Le secteur prive apprecie positivement les reformes intervenues notamment a travers:
*   La restructuration des institutions d'appui (ONAC ;CBC; CCIA-BF);
*   La mise en place du CGU du CGU avec la centralisation de certaines formalites et la reduction des
delais;
*   la reforme en cours du secteur telecommunications;
* le disengagement de l'Etat de certains secteurs concurrentiels;
* 'rimplication du secteur prive dans le processus de pilotage de I'6conomie nationale (creation de la
Commission de Concertation Etat/Secteur Prive, I'entree de leurs representants dans les instances
dirigeantes des structures d'appui au secteur prive ... );
* le projet de mise en place de la "Maison de l'Entrepreneur";
*   l'adoption de la strategie du gouvemement en faveur du developpement du secteur prive.
* On deplore le fait que le Projet ait consiste en la realisation d'etudes dont la pertinence n'a pas toujours
6t6 etablie, cela au detriment d'une assistance concrete qui aurait mieux profite aux entrepreneurs.
11 recommande cependant:
* I'amelioration du systeme dtinformation et de formation;
* Ia suppression de certaines taxes jugees arbitraires par le secteur prive;
*   I'amelioration de l'acces au credit .
LECONS A TIRER
6.1 Composante secteur prive (CCIA-B, ONAC,CBC, CGU)
CCIA-B - Pour un meilleur fonctionnement de la CCIA-B, les propositions suivantes peuvent etre faites:
*   Assurer la representation des differents corps de metiers a la Chambre,
* Ameliorer l'attitude d'ecoute et la diffusion de l'information, de la formation.
ONAC - Pour remndier a ces insuffisances, le secteur prive recommande:
- 21 -



*   un elargissement de la sphere geographique des propositions commerciales notamment en direction des
pays non encore touches (pays nordiques, Angleterre, Asie...), des ONG et autres organisation
specialisees dans ce type de partenariat,
* une assistance aux entreprises en matiere de design pour l'adaptation de leurs produits A l'evolution des
marchds (gofits, label).
CGU
*   Bien dimensionner les projets pour mieux satisfaire les besoins des beneficiaires.
*   Avoir necessairement un plan de communication pour le CGU pour une information des usagers et
assurer les meilleurs relations publiques avec les usagers.
6.2 - Composante secteur financier
BRCB: Valoriser le savoir-faire du BRCB.
TRESOR - L'accent doit etre mis sur le choix des consultants afin d'eviter non seulement les cas
d'abandon d'6tude (comme cela a ete pour l'etude sur les nouveaux instruments financiers), mais aussi, les
etudes peu satisfaisantes (comme ltUtude sur la microfinance).
SONAPOST: Revoir la procedure de passation des marches, et le sui'vi de leur execution.
6.3    - Composante Privatisation. Pour assurer une meilleure rdussite dans l'ex6cution de la suite du
programme, il est necessaire que les actions soient mieux coordonnees, Banque Mondiale, Gouvemement d'
une part, et Commission de privatisation et autres structures ou Ministeres impliques d'autre part.
6.4    - Composante juridique. Recommandations: Un programme d'urgence devra etre defini en vue
de la mise en place du registre du commerce de Ouagadougou dans un premier temps et de celui des autres
juridictions ensuite.
RECOMMANDATIONS
Les principales recommandations que l'on peut faire sont les suivantes:
*   D'enormes besoins demeurent encore insatisfaits au niveau du secteur prive. II serait souhaitable que la
reflexion sur l'appui au prive puisse se poursuivre en vue de trouver la forme la plus efficace pour
assister le secteur prive. D'oui la necessite de mettre en place un nouveau programme qui devra mettre
l'accent sur un appui plut6t operationnel qutinstitutionnel au secteur prive.
*   Les groupements professionnels devraient etre responsabilises et renforces pour permettre au secteur
prive de jouer un r6le plus efficace dans l'economie nationale.
*   Pour cela, il est recommande d'elaborer des programmes de formation / conseil tant pour les entreprises
que pour les petites, moyennes et micro entreprises.
* La poursuite de la reflexion que le Gouvernement burkinabe a entame avec la Banque Mondiale pour
promouvoir la competitivite de l'conomie par une participation plus active du secteur prive.
*   La poursuite du desengagement de l'Etat dans les secteurs concurrentiels pour cela la realisation
effective de l'etude sur le portefeuille residuel est indispensable.
* L'appui A la relance de certaines filieres, telle celles des fruits et legumes. L'atelier sur la filiere fruits et
legumes a pu mettre en evidence un certain nombre d'avantages comparatifs dont dispose le pays et a
formule des recommandations dont l'impact pourrait se faire sentir rapidement si le comite de
concertation propose par I'atelier etait rapidement mis en place.
- 22 -



*   L'accent doit etre mis sur I'ame lioration de l'environnement reglementaire d'une part, et du systemre
judiciaire d'autre part.
CONCLUSION
L'execution du Projet a souffert de difficult6s diverses, qui n'ont pas permis d'atteindre tous les
objectifs fixes initialement dans I'accord de credit. C'est pourquoi, le Gouvemement souhaite la mise en
place d'un nouveau projet qui puisse prendre en compte les aspects qui n'avaient pas pu etre executees par
la formule actuelle du PASP, notamment, L'appui direct aux entrepreneurs. L'espoir est cependant permis
compte tenu du changement des mentalites constates au cours de la periode d'execution du Projet. Le
Burkina Faso dispose encore d'un certain nombre d'opportunites non encore exploitees comme il faut
comme dans le domaine des fruits et lgumes, du sesame, etc.
(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.
10. Additional Information
-23 -



TELECOM SECTOR - SELECTED KEY INDICATORS
Increase in Telephone Lines over the Period 1994-1999
1994                    1 995_ 1996  1 997 12998   1 999l
Number of lines                  26,328    30,043    34,055  36,258  41,700      52,000
ncrease                            20%        14%       13%      6%     15%     24.70%
Number of lines/100 Deor le          0.3       0.3       0.3     0.31   0.38        0.51
Source: UlT et ONA TEL (1998 - 1999)
Summary of Changes in Tariffs (as of May 2000)
Internatinnal    Natinnal ._ caL.l  Mnbile
USA: -67%            -30%      20%      -17%
Asia: - 50%
Europe: -30%
Other African -40%
countries:l
Key Telecommunications Prices
Amounts in US dollars (May 2000)
Benin     Burkina        Togo          RCI          Niger       Mali
Connection fee                   91.4        75.1         76.9           53.8        46.2       100.0
Monthly subscription              3.8          4.6         2.2            5.9         3.7         3.0
L.ocal call (I min.)             0.03        0.02         0.01           0.02        0.00        0.00
Call to UEMOA country             0.9          0.7         0.9            0.8         0.8         1.1
Call to France                    2.6          1.2         1.8            1.4         2.0         2.1
Call to USA                       2.7          1.2         2.5            2.1         2.8         4.6
- 24 -



SITUATION OF THE BANKING SECTOR, END OF 1999
Name of Banks            RICIA-R         BIB      SGBB    BCB  COBA.BB ROA    CNCA
Established                1974          1974     1973    1988   1997    1997         1981
Capital /I                  5            4.8       1.6      2       1.5     1.24      3.5
No. of branches             11           21         3        2      2        2         18
Effectives                 345           408       120      77      37       33       146
Deposits /1                80.4          58.7       -       8.5    15.2      3.8      14.6
Credits l1                 55.5          67.6               6.7   11  .6   2.8        23.6
/1 in millions of CFAF
- 25 -



SUMMARY OF THE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM FOR THE PERIOD 1992-2000 (in FCFA)
Name of       State    State      State                                              Date           Sale
No.       Firm        Owned  Divest  Retained           Sector             Method            of Sale         price
I  IBRAKINA            9.43%     9.43%      0.00%    Beverages         Sale of shares        1992          262,487,500
2   SBCP              50.00%    50.99%      0.00%      Textiles        Sale ofshares          1992           10,287,900
3   SBMC              48.99%    48.99%      0.00%     Textiles         Sale of shares         1992           37.323,456
4   SOBEBRA          100.00%   100.00%      0.00%    Beverages   Merger with Brakina         1993
5   SIFA              32.00%     7.000/o   25.00%    Manufact.         Sale of shares        1993            71.500.000
6   SONAR             52.08%    27.08%     25.00%    Insurance         Sale of shares         1993          360.875.000
7   ZAMA-PUB.        100.00%    75.00%     25.00%     Services         Sale of shares        1993           102.454.000
8   FASO-PLAST        34.60%    27.40%      7.00%     Industrv         Sale of shares        1993           301 720,000
9   GMB               68.77%    43.77%     25.00%   Agroindust.        Sale of shares        1993           68 1.750.000
10  CIMAT              73.32%    61.77%     22.80%    Construct.                              1993         1,299.120,000
11  SOBECA            100.00%    81.32%   18.68%       Leasing            Leasing             1993
12  SONAPHARM          52.00%    43.60%      8.42%    Pharnac.          Sale of shares        1994          215,650,000
13  SCFB                _                             Railways           Concession           1994
14  FLEX FASO          95.00%    69.77%     25.23%   Agroindust.        Sale of shares        1995          160,000,000
15  SHSB-CITEC         43.00%    43.00%      0.00%   Agroindust.         Lease/buy            1995        Lease/buy
16  Burkina&Shell    51.00%    26.00%       25.00%    Petrol/dist.       Concession           1995          825,500.000
17  SONACAB            58.82%               58.82%   Tile industry       Liquidation          1995            0
18  RNTC-X9           100.00%    75.00%    25.00%    Transport                                1996           Concession
19  CSPPA             100.00%              100.00%   Agroindust.         Liquidation          1996            0
20  FASO YAAR          98.75%               98.75%      Trade            Liquidation          1996            0
21  FASO-TOURS                                         Services         Sale of assets        1996          1 Franc
22  SOSUCO             82.36%    52.00%     30.36%    Agriculture       Sale of shares        1998         4.402.000.000
23  SOPAL              93.93%    86.07%      7.86%    Agriculture       Sale of shares        1998          753.000.000
24  INB               100.00%    82.00%     18.00%     Services                               1999          325 000.000
25  SOCOGIB            87.85%    63.15%    24.70%    Real estate        Sale of shares        1999
26  SNTB               46.00%    31.00%     12.00%    Transport         Sale of Shares        1999        398.970,000
27  SAVANA             82.73%    82.73%               Agroindust.        Liquidation          1999           120,000,000
28  SONACOR            90.80%     0.00%     90.80%   Agriculture                              1999             0
29  AIR BURKINA    99.75%    71.00%         23.75%    Transport           Ongoing           ongoing
30  SLM               100.00%    95.00%      5.00%     Services           Ongoing           ongoing        1.084,019,200
31  ONATEL            100.00%                         Telecoms            Ongoing           ongoing
32  SHG               100. 00%   100.00%     0.00%      Hotel             Ongoing           ongoing
33  CNEA              100.00%        _             | Agroindust.          Ongoing           ongoing
34  FASO FANI          71.27%    67.00%      4.27%     Textiles           Ongoing           ongoing
35  SOFIVAR            76.76%    51.76%     25.00%   A roindust.         LiQuidation                          0
36  SOBEMA             50.00%               50.00%                       Liquidation                           0
37  ONAVET            100.00%              100.00%     Pharmac.          Liquidation                          0
38  SONACIB            80.49%               80.49%  Entertainment       Sale of assets
39  SINAC             100.00% _            100.00%     Industry          Liquidation                           0
40  COMIKI            100.00%              100.00%      Mining           Liquidation                           0
41  CNA               100.00%                         Agriculture        Liquidation                           0
42  MACEOU            100.00%   100.00%    0.00%      Agriculture    Sale to former owner
43  Feedlot           100.00%     0.00%   100.00%    Ag. Research      Back to Ministry                        0
44  Fruicema          100.00%1   0.00%1 100.00%  I Ag. Research        Back to Ministry                        0
-26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicaoWMatiix                      Projt  in last PSR                     ActuaLatast Estimate
1. Assistance to MICM
- Streamlining of procedures required by                                    - Services have improved, reducing time
importers                                                                     required to set up a new business.
- streamlining procedures to administer                                     Additional improvements are still needed to
requests to benefit from the investment code                                  eliminate remaining unnecessary
- simplify procedures to set up businesses                                  administrative steps.
- State subsidies were reduced from CFAF
20 bn in 1991 to CFAF 1 bn in 1999. In
1999, privatiation receipts and new
investments totaled CFAF 11 bn. and 20 bn
- Prvatization program                                                       respectively. Employment doubled. Gross
(a) privatize 15 enterprises by 1993                                        value added of privatized firms increased by
(b) privatize 22 additional enterprises by                                  more than 68%.
1996
2. Institutional support                                                      Limited impact since full privatization did not
- privatize CCLA, CBC and ONAC to                                            occur.
improve efficiency of services provided to
entrepreneurs
3. Financial Sector                                                           - Restructuring/privatization of the banking
(a) remove the state from the management                                     sector has led to increased competition with
of commercial banks                                                           the entry of five new financial institutions.
(b) improve overall financial intermediation                                 Financial sector is now sound and meets
prudentiai ratio requirements. Capacity built
in agency for debt recovery.
4. Telecoms reforms                                                           - Opening up of sector to competition. Entry
a) build consensus on sector reform                                           of two new mobile licenses. Reduction of
b) formulate sector policy                                                    more than 50% on ONATEL's int'l traffic and
more than 30% on long distance traffic.
- Regulator set up.
5. Reforms of business laws (OHADA)                                           - Harmonization of national laws with
a) judges fully aware of new laws                                             OHADA laws in process.
b) adjust national laws
c) set up registry of court
6. Competitiveness study                                                      - Renewed policy dialogue between
a) identify and measure impact of main                                        Bank/Government. Major shift in Govt's
competitiveness constraints                                                   understanding of the strategic and
b) identify sources of growth and articulate                                  development issues in new environment for
strategy                                                                      PSD development.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatilx                    Projected in last PSR                  ActuallLatest Estimate
1. Assistance to MICM:
- Creation of a single window for all                                         A single window was created in 1994 and
business authorizations and formalities                                       was operational in 1997.
including agreement to the investment code.
- 27 -



- Support to Privatization program                                           Of 44 enterprises, 25 were privatized, 12
liquidated, 2 were transferred back to their
Ministries, 5 still ongoing.
2. Institutional support
- Privatization of CCIA: Elected
representatives of private enterprises have
taken over CCIA, all support to private
entrepreneurs concentrated in CCIA
- Reorganize CBC and ONAC: rationalize                                       CBC and ONAC have been restructured but
their activities, transfer admin. tasks to state                             not privatized.
- Matching fund to help private firms carry                                  Activity was dropped because of the
out feasibility studies and provide financial                                existence of a large number of similar funds.
start-up support
3. Financial Sector
Privatization of banks                                                      All banks (5) were privatized.
Restructuring of postal services                                            Restructuring was completed in April 2000,
with separation from accounts from the
Treasury.
- Creation of new financial instruments for                                  Several new institutions were created
long-term lending                                                            induding two new leasing companies.
- Support to microfinance sector                                             Adoption of PARMEC law by Govermment.
Microfinance Unit within the Ministry of
Finance was strengthened. Preparation of a
sectoral strategy.
- Strengthening agency for debt recovery                                     Of a total amount of CFAF 64 bn of bad
debt, CFAF 10.9 bn. was transferred, or 17%
during 1991-99. Proportion of prvate debt
recovered was CFAF 9.7 bn, or 36%., out of
CFAF 27 bn. Proportion of public debt
recovered was CFAF 1.2 bn, or 6%, out of
CFAF 19 bn. Remaining balance is not
expected to be recovered.
- Revision of laws governing bad checks and                                  This activity was dropped because of
delinquent debtors                                                           adoption of new regulations at regional level.
4. Telecoms reforms                                                          Adoption by the Govemment of sectoral
policy to promote competition. Adopbon of
two laws to set up legaVregulatory framework
and to privatize ONATEL. Competition in the
sector achieved with two mobile telephone
licenses, bringing in US$19 million equiv., in
license fees to Govt.
Training for judges and private operations
5. Reforms of business laws (OHADA)                                         was completed. New court register was set
up in the two largest cities.
The study was completed in April 2000. Its
6. Competitiveness study                                                     results were used to develop a new PSD
strategy, the PRSP, and the CAS.
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apprais     ActuaULatest  Percentage of
Estima        Estimate      Appraial
Project Cost Cy Component             US$ million    US$ million
Support to Privatization Commission                   3.17           4.14           131
Institutional Support to Private Sector               2.75           0.97            35
Financial Support Component                           0.81            1.11          137
Telecoms Reforms                                      0.00           0.91             0
Implementation of the OHADA Laws                      0.00            0.24            0
Coordination Unit                                     0.72            1.02          142
PPF                                                   0.51           0.18            35
Total Baseline Cost                                   7.96            8.57
Physical Contingencies                               0.52           0.00
Price Contingencies                                  0.52           0.00
Total Project Costs              9.00            8.57
Total Financing Required               9.00           8.57
Source: Project Files.
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expendibe Catepry         ICB       Procurment Method1            N.B.F.     Total Cost
Expenditaire Categomy  1GB   NCB          Other2
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.81          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.81
(0.81)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.81)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          5.63         0.00         5.63
Studies, TA, training        (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.03)       (0.00)       (5.03)
4. Inc. Operatings Costs      0.00         0.00          2.05         0.00         2.05
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.65)        (0.00)       (0.65)
5. PPF Refinancing           0.00          0.00          0.51                      0.51
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.51)          ()         (0.51)
Total                      0.81          0.00         8.19         0.00         9.00
(0.81)       (0.00)       (6.19)        (0.00)       (7.00)
Source: Memorandum of the President
Project Costs by Procuremt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category      Ica5          NCB         Other2        N.8.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.45          1.01         0.00         1.46
(0.00)       (0.45)       (0.51)        (0.00)       (0.96)
3. Services                  3.28          0.04          2.02         0.00         5.34
Studies, TA, training        (3.28)        (0.04)       (1.55)       (0.00)       (4.87)
-29 -



4. Inc. Operatings Costs          0.00            0.00           1.60            0.00           1.60
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.08)         (0.00)         (0.08)
5. PPF Refinancing                0.00            0.00           0.18           0.00           0.18
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.18)         (0.00)         (0.18)
Total                          3.28            0.49           4.81           0.00           8.58
(3.28)         (0.49)          (2.32)         (0.00)         (6.09)
Source: Project Files
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component               Appraj;l                                   Estimate   0   0:;: f4 Percentage of Appraisal
C|mponent  ::;Appra i sal Esimt                           Actual/La0000test Estimate    X:
-______________       IDA       Goov       CoP        iDA        Govt      CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Assistance to MICM         1.17      2.00                  1.96       2.18               167.5  109.0
Institutional Support     2.75       0.00                  0.97       0.00               35.3    0.0
Financial Sector          0.81       0.00                  1.11       0.00               137.0   0.0
Project Management        0.70       0.30                  0.71       0.31               101.4  103.3
Telecoms Reform            0.00      0.00                  0.91       0.00                0.0    0.0
OHADA laws                 0.00      0.00                  0.24       0.00                0.0    0.0
PPF Refinancing            0.51      0.00                  0.18       0.00               35.3    0.0
Sources: Project Files. Disbursement Dept.
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
n.a.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:               ____ _
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal - June 1992         7   TTL, I PSD, I Op. Off., 4
Consultants
Negotiations-Feb. 1993
Supervision
April 1993                    1  Sr. Operations Officer                S                 S
January 1994                  2  Sr. Op. Officer, Op. Officer          S                 S
June 1994                     4  TTL, I PS, I PSD, I Op. Off.          S                 S
December 1994                 3  TTL, I Op. Analyst, 1 PSD             S                 S
March 1995                    3  TTL, I Op. Analyst, I PSD             S                 S
July 1995                     3  TTL, I PSD, I Op. Officer             S                 S
November 1995                 6  TTL, 2 PSD, I FS Spec., I             S                 S
Fin.Analyst, I Consultant
June 1996                     5  TTL, I PSD, 1 FS, I Fin.              S                 S
Analyst, I Consultant
July 1997                     5  TTL, I FS, I PSD, I Fin.              U                 U
Analyst, I Consultant
Oct. 1997-Nov. 1997           7  TTL, 2 PSD, I Telecom, I              U                 U
Consultant, I FS, I Fin. Analyst
March 1998                    4  TTL, I PSD, I Fin. Analyst, I         U                 U
PF
July 1998                     7  TTL, I FS, I Telecom, I PSD, 2        U                 U
Legal/Reg., I Consultant
April 1999                    5  TTL, I PSD, I Telecom, I PSF,         U                 U
I Consultant
August 1999                   2  TTL, I Fin. Analyst                   U                 U
November 1999                 7  TTL, I FS, I PSD, 2 Legal, I          S                 U
Fin. Analyst, I Consultant
ICR
November 1999 *               7   TTL, I FS, I PSD, 2 Legal,           S                 U
I Fin. Analyst, I Consultant
May 2000                      4   TTL, I FS, I PSD, Fin. Analyst       S                 S
* The first ICR mission took place in November 1999. However, because the closing date was extended to
June 2000, a closing mission took place in May 2000. This mission was also an identification mission for
the follow-up project.
- 32 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  ActualVLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              78.3                       201.6
AppraisalJNegotiation                   46.3                       126.4
Supervision                            298.8                       852.0
ICR                                     10.0                         8.9
Total                                  433.4                     1,188.9
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
fMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Institutional Development               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
Z Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
* Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
[ Lending                                           OHS O(S   *U  OHU
El Supervision                                      O HS * S  OU  OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  OU  O HU
62 Borrower performance                             Rating
L Preparation                                       O HS O S  *  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance            0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                0 HS 0 S   * U  0 HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS  * U  O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report
2. Aide-Memoires
3. "jAtelier de Reflexion sur la Creation de la Maison de I'Entrepreneur, Compte rendu des Travaux",
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Juillet 1998.
4. "Burkina Faso - Competitivite et Croissance Economique: Orientations, Strategies et Actions",
Ministere de I'Economie et des Finances-Banque Mondiale, Avril 2000.
5. Burkina Faso - "Note sur le Secteur Financier, 3 juin 1999".
6. Burkina Faso - Completion Point Document of the Original HIPC Initiative and Second Decision Point
for the Enhanced HIPC Initiative. Prepared by the Staffs of the World Bank and the IMF, May 2000.
-36 -



