Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11567-BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BUWIA FASO
PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTACE PRJECT
EBlRUARY 23, 1993
r .;  '  j jV  i' ;L  y ' ._  .'\711. y'
:i'~~ t,'   3', ,i
Industry and Energy Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
Tbis docment has a rsticft  dI stftbtond mNay be used by rents only in the pedonnanme of
thei officl dutis Its content may not otberwse be disdosed wiout World Rank autholidaion,



Currency Unit       -            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US $1.0             =            276.625
CFAF I milion                    US $3,615
SDR 1.0             3            USS1.371
A&BBRV,IA=IN$N AND,CRONYMS
AGSECAL    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BCEAO        Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de I'Ouest
BFCI         Banque pour le Financement du Commerce et de ldndusre
BIB          Banue inernationle du Burkina
BICIA        Banque Internationale pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et 1'Agriculture
BND-N        Banque Nationale de DEveloppement du Burkina
BRCB         Bureau de Recouvrement des crdances du Burkina
CARFO        Caisse d'Autonome de Retraite des Fonctionnalres
CB           Commission Bancaire de l'UMOA
CBC          Conseil Burkinabe de Changes
CCIA         Chambre de Commerce de 'Industrie et de l'Arsanat
CCP          Compte Cheques Postaux
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CNE          Caisse Nationale dEpargne
CNSS         Caisse Nationale de SJcurite Sociale
EPIC         Etablissement Public I Caract&re Industriel et Commercial
EPA          Etablissement Public I Caractre Administratif
G3OBF        Government of Burkina Faso
MIFP         Ministtre des Finances et du Plan
MICM         Ministere de lIndustrie, du Commerce et des Mines
ONAC         Office National du Commerce ExtErieur
PC           Privatization Commission
PID          Projet Institutionnel de Ddveloppement
SAL          Strucural Adjustment Loan
SE           Socie d'Etat
SEM          SociEtE d'Economie Mixte
SGS          Societe GQErale de Surveillance
TSAIP        Transport Sector Adjustment and Investment Program
UMOA         Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



E : ........*                   4 .  . ... ..  . . ..4      .  ..          .    .    .  . .   4  . . . .     * .                  .   .  .
zg~~~~~~ 4                                       *   **                                 *   *   **  .*             ........ .... ...E........ 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  ......    ..  ....    ...    ...                                         4 ...
.    .     4                              *         *    *    *    * .    .  .    .    . 4  .    .  .    .    .    .    . 4    4
...... 4.....   . . 4..    4    .... 4 4      9 4 4          4.  4.    4  V   *    .  4    4  z   *  .-
*    4.   4    4..  4...  * .    4   ... 4*  4.  4.  4..  4*.-;*    4    4   4  4    4    4  4    4   9    4 . 4..  ..4.4    4
.........~~~~~~~~~~.    9.....   ..   4..   . . .. ... 4_  4.....  *    4..  ...   4..a...  
.   .   .    .   .    .    .    .   .    .    .   .    .   .    .   .   .    .    .   .    .    .   .  e; ka~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *    *    *    *  cg  *   *   *    *    *   **   *    * *    * 
.    . . . . . . . . . .    . .    . . . . . .   ~~~~. . . .:. R          .4       .    . . .    . 4  
4*          6                                         
fl~ ~~~                                                                                         *     { ...g           ....ij.|}l     
|   |  g tg 1;,lj g14                             a~iti                                                                             -l isl . Et 1 
d~~Ra                           iiii                                                 g



| F 1j3; 1|J[|[piij
I igZiWl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   .                            .   .  .    .    . 
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4p                  4      * 4 
xS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X            .   * .  *.  * .  .   .   *.*
[Er!F  X                                                                ......... 4 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . . .             4 4 4 4 4



lUSr OF ANNE=
Annex I      Litd ofpublc aetpis   ............................... 36
Annex 2      PrivatLzatin program           ...       .     ............. 38
Annex3       Lls ofprvatprofhsoionarginzdo  ....... ............. 40
Annex4       Privateconsultlngfis ........            .................. 41
Anex 5       Exten  Donors Programs ..         .......       .................. . 42
Annex 6      Govrnment's Policy Letter on a program fbr srengthening support and
finncinsttions ........................... 43
Annex 7      Overview of the Banking sector . . . ........  ...       ..51
Anex. 8      Tms of refec for the orgaization of the two one-step-windows .... 54
Annex 9 A    Terms of  trer    for the privatization of the Chamer of Comme
(CCIA)         ..........................                        58
Annex 9 B    Tems of reeemnc for the rerganizatn of the structure comprised
ofCCIA, ONAC and CBC  .. ..... ................... 61
Annex 9 C    Tms of rferee for the raionaliadon of the mogomen of
CCIA's  d CBC's warhousingf i  .....................facili        64
Anni  10     Terms of refec  for the convesion of the CCP/CNE into a financi
stution          ........ ...... ........ . 66
Annex 11     Terms of reference for a feasibility study on new fincial
Annex 12     Estimated proje costsand financing pln ....            .    ... 72
Annx 13           poplnng...... .... 74
Anex 14      Keyprojectactviiesand evautioncrithera      ...........        .. 80
Annex 15     SupeviionPlan.................. 83
Ann 16                   schedule............ 85



i
BU1U -  FASO
Creit and-l"oJot SWIMWQ
Bon:          ~~Govermn Of Burkina FMs
B:ndkiarin-,        Mintry of 1n_y, Commerce and Min  (MJCM) and Mistry of
Fine   and Planning (IhP); support insitonm: Chambred
Commerce de lInduste et de 'Artisanat - CCIA, Office Nal op
Anmnerce Extrir - ONAC and Consegl             de  Ca           -
CBC; Prvae nsitutons providing support and services to the private
sector; Pivate Entrepreneurs; banks and financial insttutions.
AntM:               SDR 5.1 mllion (US$ 7 million equiaent)
Imm:                Sandard IDA terms, with 40 years maty
ftWectiond:ft   The proposed project would primaiy focus on the instuona
deveopment oft (f) the governmt agencies delivering adminstratie
services to the private sector; and, (i) the fincial  termediies. It
would  also  support measures  aiming  at deepening  financi
intermedistion. The project contsts of the following three components:
(a)                        his to  component will fiane  short-erm techcal
sistance, taioig  and equipment to impre   the MICM  capacit in:  )
administerig the pwcedu   relag to eteral trde and the estblishment of
ew private businese; and, (ii) efkiently caying out the Govwnment's
program for divestiure from public entaeise.
Ob) J     niu         cmponent. The purpose of this component is to
rganze, privatize, and strengthen the support sttre comprised of the
CCIA, the CBC and ONAC by: (i) transfrg to the Government the tasks of
adminitve nature that they presentiy perform and to the CCIA all those
consisting of providing extenion serices to private e nep n;  (d)
stheng CCIas ability to bep private entrepreneurs obta the assistance
that they need; and,  1 rationalizing the management of warehouses and
shipping equipme  presently under CCIA and CBC contol. In addition, the
project would finance thugh the restuctured CCIA, technical assistance to
privae entrpreneurs who wish to Improve their operations or create new
(c) Em=a     seialscor mazon eut. Under this component, the project would
fiance: () the sevices of an expert investent bankr to assist the MFP in
evaluating private investors proposals to buy shares In public   eprises or
financil ntiuns  nd in negodating with them; (Hi) tecnical assistance to



II
rove the orgaWnzatio  and proceur  of the BRC1, and equpmen to
computerize its operations; ffO) the updae by Indepdnt auditors of the banks
auifts prior to thei prlvatelzio  (lv) a study ito prear te conversion of the
postl checking and  ags system (CCP/CNE) In  a fidal ialtudon (v)
a roview of the las rdatig to bad checds and delincuent debtors; and, (vi) a
feaibily stdy to Ideny  the condon for ithe creon and the viility of
longem f¢iaaiumet for Inestmet financing.
1dmdaJoiadB Cn and  nhZI Pa: Cmn $ OOOs)
l.ocal   PErwJgn
Assistance to the MICM          2350            820       3170
titutional support component      -            2750       2750
Financial sector component       170            640        810
Project Coordination             550            170        720
Refund of PPF advauce            280            230        510
Contingencies44
Total                     3790          S210        9000
IDA                             2170           4830       7000
Goverment                       1                Q         Q
Total                     3790          5210        9000
-.oject       anenets ad  :
1.ft     no pred project will help the private seor repnd to ot
political and    omic tansition towards democrac and liberaization that is
underw  . It will complemen the policy and regulatory reform as wel as thbe
Government divestiture proces presenty underway, in the context of a SAL and
other Bank-suuppored sectora projects. It would help implement the Government
stategy to create n environment conducive to the development of the priv
itidatve in the economy and to tnsfe to the private sector a restructured and
strngthened insttoa support strucure whose services are critical to piva
_nuvpr    s.  lhe specific benefits from the project would onsist of: )
Improved administatie services, in addition to the aisce aady being
delivered to Ot  Miistry of Finance and Plannig by the Public Instutn
Deveopment project (PD), by strealining pocedu  relating to etera trade
and to the establishment of new enterprises; 0i) the establishment of an efficient
and private suonal swpport su     based on a strengthened CCIA which
would play a central role in cordint  and chaeling all local and fore
sistance a1ailable to private entrepreneurs; and, Qhl) the deepenig of financial



IntrmdItIn,paticulry trough aiding the bank tha hav been prvatla
and privat Ivets to ae fnancial    me    mdRd    _
flgof. PA, y one0f ,_stdd M,  &pia w
ParticlW ipt creatn, in tie m   m, a local Instonal capact  whic
would mure a          e_elvelo-pme  of the priv  sector.
Bihi  Tho success of th proct Is condidond by the prog_m acheved In
Implementingthe pvatiaton of public enteprises and f inana  stitons. A
se back In ti aa would dicourW  the prvate seaor and  st In ,nore
diffculty In  pleme g the omasu   conied in tis project. lTib isk i,
however, mItid by the Goment commtm    which has ben rtate In
th seood PFP ezpe to be agred on   March 1993 wtb do Bank ad W
IW. There Is ao a isk ta the  ucurigpvalaton pocs expected
to ta  place duing  o proect mih lag and prove difficult to implem_t
Adequate sueviion, mostly at the onset of the project, along with the ddelry
of effective technical entvisged In the project, will be crucil in
allevitng t   haad.  WIt vegad to ihe private stor, the bun
ommuniy might prove unable or unwiuling, since no i_N  t  fin     
proposd to play a sgWfcaut role In takiog chage of the ineional system
supoting private            .  However, contacts taken duig projct
prepaatIonwita    of the pivae sector reued In to  alishmett
of a GaOVey  t-priva  secto  Consultative Commission dS
comprse  mostly of hlgbly respected              Of th
busine  commnity. Ts commission actvely pIn the preaon
of the project ad  ts exected cnibton in oveg t               projc
ImpIemtton and evuain should suta the ierest of h pdvate sector In
die projct



1
L. ThE MACROECONOMC CONTX
A. Background
1.           Burkna Fm is a landlocked country located in a trasitona zone beween the
Sudan-Guinean regons and the Sael. Its population of anim million is 90 % nru. With a per
capia GDP of $320, Burkina Psmo is one of the poorest countries In the world. It's economy
dpends heavily on agricultre and ivestock whicb aouats for about 30% of GDP, provides
over 60% of export earnings and employs almost 90% of the coutry's active populaton.
Manuacuring conbutes about 14% of GDP, and trade and services about 42%. Overall,
aking into account agrictu  and inormal actvities, privae sector actiities dominate the
economy and provide about 80% of the couy's output. Informal activities eacompass
practically all agriculwal operations, are preponderant in trade and services, and signficant In
the secondary secor. la the modern sector, Govemment services and public enteprs  play a
major role.  Private enterprises, however, have remained very acdve, paticady in
maIufactrig and contucton
2.           Rapid population growth and a weak resource base ntwitanding, Burkina
Faso's economic perfomace throughou the mid-1980s fared well. When the rate of expansion
of real GDP has exceeded the rate of populaton growth, inflafion was moderae. Between
1982/92, GDP growth (3.7% annualy) slighty outdistanced population growth (3.3% anally).
Between 1980/88, there was rapid growth (averaging 5.5% annually) fueled by a sto
performance in agriculture (6.4% annually), an expansion of public consumption, and a
construction boom gen ed by public investment programs. Ihese sources of growth, however,
proved to be unstanable and, in 1989 and 1990, the country experienced a decrease in
eonomic prmance because of reduced public consumption due to budgetary constints and
nadequate rainfall: annual growth dropped to 3.4%  and -0.1%  respectvely.  Due to
xceptionlly favorable climatic conditions, it rebounded to reach 6% in 1991 and dropped again
to 0.7% In 1992.
3.           The deterioration of public finsaces has been one of the factors which hampered
Burkina Faso's economic growt. lhe cumulative overaJl budget deficit of the govenment,
which averaged 12% of GDP in 1986/90 (excluding grants) produced a heavy debt service
burden. Becau  of administrative inefficiency, poor tax revenues from a stagnating formal
sector, and prioritization of other eWpenditres, Burkina Paso begun to fall into arras on ats
domestic and extral debt service obligations. At the end of 1990, extern principal and interest
arears amounted to approely CFAF 49.4 bitlion. The Government accumulated an
additional CFAF 34.0 bilion in domestic arrears. Gross domestic savings averaged 6.4% of
GDP during 198C-90. Due to a re influx of worke' wages, gross national savings is much
higher, averaging 10.9% of GDP during tis same period.
4.           In the 1980s, Burkina Faso's external accounts developed favorably becae of
increased revenues from the exportation of the commodities which are its main foreign exchange
earners: cotton, livestock and gold. lT current account deficit has improved when compared
with the performance during the 1977/82 period. Net capital inflows coverea not only the curent
account deficit during 1982/88 but also built up gross official reserves of almost seven months
of imports at the end of 1988. In 1989, however, the country's balance of payments position
weakened due to a deterioratg trade balance, a large deficit in the service accoun, lower net



2
private trandfers and the state's liability for addtional arreas following the liquidato  of a
railway company owned Joinly with C8te d'voire. Burkina Paso's exten  position Js projected
to remain fragle because of sow growt In gold expors and weakening of the ter  of trade.
5.           During the period 1986/90 investment reached, on aveMage, a high of 22% of
Gl? largely as a result of public investments. These investm , howver, consisted of a few
larg.j infrastructure and building contuedon projects with manal economic return. Private
ivestment In formal eFbnta was consrined by a restrictive legal and ulatory famework
(this issue h presety addrese  as discussed in paras. 17 througb 21). Its ,i! cing was
crowded out by the privileged treatment given by the banks to the public sector in nearly all
economic activity. As a resutt, the private sector invested primarily in housing, office building
construction and informal activities. Because of increased budgetay constns and of recent
deterioration of the banking sector, public and private investment now hae to rely mostly on
foreign assistance.
B.    The role of the private secto In the economy
6.           Ova-view. A recent study fianced by a Japanese grant', revealed (see table 1)
that despit years of ilntrventions Gov ent policies duriW  which pvat in ie  was
systematcally discourad, privateactivities, incuding those of the informal sector, still play an
important role in the economy of Burkina Faso.
TABLE 1
Public and Private sectors
contribution to GDP by sector
(in % of total GDP in 1990)
Private Sector Contribution  Public Sector
Percent                         C-Ql,rlbution   Total
_____ __    of GDP    Formal   Informal   Total
Agriculture        30.6        5         95        100         0         100
Secondary Sector    23.1      18         61        79          21        100
Tetiy Sector       46.3       22         48        70          30        100
otal           100.0       16         65        81          19        100
7.           The domiance of the private sector is due to the importance of informa activities
in the Burkinab economy. In the formaP part of the economy, however, the contibution to
GDP of the public sector is estimated to be higher than that of the private sector. In the
J/  Soarce: 0. Le Moe "Dw*haa Faw - Comiream t *e develomt ofdW priva bdxsla so.rm
manrch 1992.
aDh1Bed as hcdg obn e*pimefe mer seor



3
seconday sector, for example, public nrprise output amounts to about 21 % of GDP compared
with about 18% for the priva  sector. The public sector is the only provider of utilities and
plays a domi  role In mining and manu ng, while the private ssctor is clearly dominant
In coustcion advies which were at the core of the economic growth reported for the period
1982/90. In the tetiary sector, private activitdes are preponderant in trade, and important In
transport, while the public sector monopolizes financial and govermeL services.
8.           The informal sector is estimated to account for about 65% of the nation's output.
Its importance varies according to th type of activity. In agricultre, although the marketg of
cereals and cotton have been greaty controled by Govenment istuions, private  rming
performed by about 600,000 family farms acu   for about 95% of the setor's output. The
informal setor also appears to domine in the secondary sector whre productive micro-
enterpises are estimated to acoount for about 80% of manufcturing otput. In the tertiary sector
informal enterpri:eL play a maor role in services, account for the same output as formal trade
companies but are amost non-exist  In the transport sector.
9.           Growth potential. Although oppornmities for privae acdvities to expand In
Burkina Paso do exist, the private sector has not lived up to its potentia for development. A
recent study of the financial sectors has revealed that over the 1985/90 period, privat Investment
ccounted for only 22% of an estimated tota investment of CFAF 26.5 billion. Although there
are possibilities to expand both traditional and market-oriented agriculture, only a few smnal
prvate venrs have begun exporting fruits and vegetables to European markets. Despie
rlatively rich and diverse minra resources including deposits of gold, zinc, copper and
manganese, only gold is preseny mined. A new project, involving foreign investors, is expected
to be  opating a zinc mine in the nea future. ManufactC  g opporuities for the local and
regional markets, although limited (e.g construction materials, garments, agri:rsing), are
not exploited to take advantage of the raw materials and the hard working and disciplined labor
force that are available.
10.          Until the late 1980s, private sector activities were discouraged by the marxst and
centrly planned policies of the Governent which resulted, in distorted markets and
cumbersome business nules and regulations. Furthermore, the Government's reliance on the
public sector to generate economic growth, in addition to inducing impwt economic
inefficiencies, bas contr    to crowding the private sector out of access to bank credit. With
very little, if any, incentives and practically no institutional support, the private sector inested
mostly in housing and informd actvities.
11.          In the late 1980s, when Burkina Faso's situation worsened, as a result of lagging
fiscal revenues and growing budgetary constrain  and macro-economic Imbalances, the
Government began to realize the limits of its interventionist approach and the necessity of a
greater role for the private sector in the country's economic activities. It decided, therefore, to
prepare, with the Bank and IMP assistance, an important adjustment program which it started to
implement in 1990. This program, described in the first Policy Framework Paper (PFP) agreed
with the Bank and the IMP in 1991, included far-reaching policy and regulatory reforms paving
the way to the development of private initiatve in the economic arena. In addition to restoring
'1/ M. Remue dx sysfnimekr en vw d'ealuser k posenikl de dvwlppewe de I17_tad X
Jaare ax wkina Fao, June 199 t    labk in the proJectfeks.



4
sound public finaw-e manaeme  and macroenomic equilibria, In particular, It aimed, at: O)
removing the constt, and tablishing an enabling environment to prmote tapid ad efficient
growth of the pdvate sOctor, and, (fI) tasering to the private sector cmmercial and productive
enterprses of the puMic sector. To facilitate this trasfr and to further encouage a susaned
expansion of the privao str, the GOBP wants now to promote the establishment of adequate
A-. effilcient sUPPOr ser s to pivate entreprener, while pursuing the privatization ptocess
and taking appropriate meares to make the financial Intermediation system more responsive to
their Leeds.
C. The refonm of the polcy and rOgulitorY enVIronment
12.          To support the implementation of this policy framework, the Bank approved, In
June 1991, a first Struct   Adjustment Loan (SAL). Ito GOBF has, in addkion, sught the
Bank's assitane tough a reny approved Public Ittional Development Project (PID) for
strengthening the budgetary and civil service management, revising the legal framework rdating
to activities of the private sector and developing the civil services skils to prepare and Implement
appropriate economic policies. Two recentdy approved projects, the Agricultura Sector
Adjustment Loan (AGSECAL) and in the Trnsport Sector Adjustment and Ilvestmenm Project
(ISAIP), are expcted to tacle the specific Issues of these sectors. While these two latter
projects are not yet effectve, the implementation of the reforms included in the SAL I now
ptogrSslg safactorily. The following paragr     report on the results achieved thus far in
the areas of trade and price libeaization and of business environment and privtizaton.
13.          Trade Poldes Reform.  The pursuit in the 1980s of an import-substitution
development strt   and of high fiscal revenues to sustain Goverament spending had led to the
establishment of a cumbesme system of quanttative restrictions (Qrs), tight controls on trade
operations through prohibitions, conditional imports, monopolies and high tariff barriers on all
imports. An intricate system of prior authorization was applied to vktuaily all exported and
imported goods. Govement companies were given monopolies on the trade of the main
imorted or exprted commodities. Direct txation of all exports and heavy protction fom
imports resulted in an incentve stru e highly biased against export opeaons. The tariff
structur was encumbered by a multitude of taxes, a grest disparity of tariff rates and a
cumbersome administative valuatioD system.
14.          In 1990, with the chmge in attude towards the private sector, the GOBF began
to relax import and export rtgulions. In 1991, it repealed the export tax and abolished prior
authorization for the exportation of nearly all goods. The export monopolies on cotton and gold
were, however, mainned. With regad to import operations, all required import documents
were consolidated into a single authorization and all state monopolies on imports other than fuel
and rice were lifted. The GOBF further adopted a program of trade liberalization to be
implemented under the SAL durig the period 1991/93. The main objectives of thbis program -
to be reached by the end of 1993 - are: O) the gradual abolishment of prior import authorization
(Auotrisatlon Piable hk. lI'i     and quan  ve restrictions (Qrs), which would be limited
by early 1994, for security, health or environmental reasons, to five imported products (military
equipment, explosives, pharmaceutical, toxic plants and small fishing nets); and, (Hi) the revision
of the present tariff system with a view to simplifying and rationalizing the rate structre,



5
elidnat  disotion  and hmonizn the effetve proteon across aivities. Tis tariff
reform would also ensure a neutal revenue impact.
15.          Despite the disruption in Government activities caused by the succeful
undertaking of a politlal de zion prOcess, a number of measures to li lize trde and
prices have already been eofbrced. The aumber of categories of goods subjec to prior impott
authoriztion has been grauialy reduced from 30 In 1991 to 20 in June 1992 and 15 by the end
of 1992. By the end of 1993, only fie products would be subjec tO prior import auftrization
as menoned above in pam 14. With regard to monopolies, in the context of the recenly
approved AGSECAL, the monopoly on the Import of rice will be abolished. In January 1992,
impor taxmati  based on standard administrative values (urs     , was replacd by
tariffs. Since Jsnuary 1, 1993, a simplified rationalized and streamlined taiff schedule with only
tree product categories and tariff rates is in effect. With regad to import procedur, a one-step
window (gichet unique des oons nondganiku du gMM=    eu  was established
in Febuary 1992 to prompdy handle the remaining administative procedures applying to
importrs and to prepare the documents required by the import pre-shipment Inspections carried
out, under the SAL provisions, by  Gci en&e de ,Survelilance (SGS), since December 1992.
Although this ichet uni=m is now operational it still needs to improve its organization and,
most importady, to computerize its operations in order to facilitate its wort
16.         Price Ubdon. Until the late 1980's, prices were admistere througb
a system which included auhorized profit mais   for goods, either localy produced or
imported, and fixed prices for goods, mostdy agricultural, that were deemed essential. Since
1990, the GOBr has gradually opened the pricing sytem to the iuence of market fowes, fist
hrough exercising ex-post rather than ex-ante price controls and then by abolishing, in 1991, the
system of adminisraively determined prices for all locdly produced goods but re that are
deemed essenial (sugar, rice and wheat flour). However, in the conte of the AGSECAL, the
GOBF envisages to liberalize the producer and consumer prices of all cereas, to link the
producer price of cotton to the price observed on the international market and to liberalize the
domestic marketing price of sugar. With regard to imported goods, it has reduced, in 1991, the
number of those which were subjected to adminstered profit margins from about 100 to 36. To
give time to local producers to adapt to a competitive market, it has envisaged to phae out the
elimination of the remaining preset margins with the abolition of the Qrs. The itended result
would be to reduce their mber to affect only the five mentioned above in para. 14 by the end
of 1992 and only one (proleum product) by the end of the SAL period in December 1993.
17.         Prsatebusnrelo. Untl 1991,inadditiontotheil-conceivedpolicies
mentioned above, a number of regulations hampered the development of private investment
These included an inadequate investment code, an outdat  commerca leglaion, a rigid labor
law, an inefficient legal/judicial system and a system of land tenure rigs exduding individual
property ownership.
18.          Ihe investment code has since been amended to expand its coverage, rationalize
the incentives that it provides, and facilitate the access of potenti investors to its benefit. In
the new code in effect since June 1992, fiscal incetives have replaced tariff duty exemptions
which resulted in disbtortions of the input price structure. The new code also includes a free-zone
regime for export activities. With regard to the code coverage, all activities are eligible for the
code benefits, except mining and commerce which are subject to specific regulations that are also
to be reviewed in the context of the iID. In order to reduce the processing time of investors'



6
applications, the Mistry of Industy, Commerce and Mines (MlCM) established, In Ocber
1992, a onestep-window (guce unique des investissements) to handle all the procedures
relating to the administration of the code. In order to further sreamline the procedures requred
to set up new investment oprations, the MICM has agreed, during project appraisal, to expand
the role of the gubihdAe unito the handling of all the procedures required to establish new
ventues even when they do not seek the benefits of the Investment code.
19.          With regard to commercial legislation, in 1991, under the ongoing SAL, the
GOBF adopted a receiership law for distressed companies and established, in April 1992, a Law
Revision Committee to revise and update existng laws with a view to publishing them In a
consolidated form. Within this committee, a sub-committee is expected to receive techical
assistance under the PUD, to review the Commercial Code and related legislation (imcluding the
new land tenure law) and to amend them as necessary. This sub-committee is expected to
propose to the Government a new commercial code which would be adopted by the end of 1993.
20.          In the area of labor regulations, a review of the role of the national employment
office (ONPE) bas been carried out with the assistance of the ILO. As a resut, the ONPE's
monopoly on hiring has been abolished. The process of reform of the Labor Code began In
1990. In particular the code has been revised to provide flexibility in the use of long- and short-
term contracts, and in the dismissal of employees for economic reasons. The final draft of the
Code, which has been extensively discussed with the Bank, has now been adopted by the National
Assembly.
21.          Finally, with regard to thejudicial system, the Government intends to create, with
the support of the PID, separate commercial courts in Burkina. Before June 1994, it will stdy
ways to set up the legal and institutional framework necessary to undertake arbitration for
rsolving conflicts arising from business operations. The PI) will also provide the judicia
system peronnel with the assistance and training necessary to communicate and apply the new
commerci laws and business practices.
22.          Public Sector Enterprise Reform.  The public enterprise sector consists of
about 71 entprises (not including the banks and other financi ins"tions) of which 25 ar
classified as Etablissement Public I Caractere Industriel et Commercial (EPICs) fully
Government-owned and direcdy supervised by government ministries; 12 are S d'Eta
(SEs) also fully Government-owned but reporting to a board made of civil servants; and 34 are
Soci  d'Eoonomie Mixe (SEMs) in which private capital is present. These enterprises operate
in all sectors of the economy and their size varies widely - from less than 30 to over 1000
employees. Public enterprises play an important role in the economy wih about a 17% share of
the value added and about a third of the employment in the modern sector. Athough precise
information on their performance is scarce, their financial results are generally esftimated to be
very poor despite the subsidies that most of them have received in the form of tax and custom
duty exemptions (Amex I). In 1990, the losses of the 13 biggest enteprises reached about
CFAF 8.5 billion. This had a significant negative impact on the Government budget by depriving
it of much needed fiscal revenues and on the banking sector which granted sizable amount of
credit to the public enterprises thereby crowding out the private sector.
23.          As part of its adjustment program, in 1991 the GOBF decided to reduce its share
in all financially viable public enterprises (mcluding the banks) to a maximum of 25% and to
liquidate the non-viable ones. According to the SAL provisions, however, on a case by case



7
basis and with the Bank's pior agreement, the Government could rea, if waanted, a bigger
share in public utlities and mining ventr. 'Me SAL also envisaged several m  which
were implemented in 1991 to prare the prvalzation process.  hese mesures include: (1) the
termintion  of all direct or indiet sbidies - except for tariff duty exempdons stil granted to
the power company which pl    a strategc role in the economy; i) the eldm iaon oflo
guntees to all public errises; (iil) the abolishment of the specific stattes of the public
enteres so as to subject them to the normal commercial law; and, Iv) the adoption of a
privatizaton law that lnStitutes far and transparent privadzation procedures. At the sam  time,
with the assistance of a Japaes grant admistd by the Bank and a recently approved PPP,
the Govemment stablished a Privatizat}on Commission (PC) to carry out the divestiwe process.
In July 1991, along with the privatization law, the GOBF issued a list of 12 enterprises, to which
nine other enterprises were added in January 1992, that the Commission could put up for sale.
24.          After a slow start, the PC took decisive steps to fulfill ht mandate. So far, three
entprises have been liquidated and four others privatized4. Two bids have been received for
the sale of the Govemment-owned cement complex and negotiations with one of the world's
largest cement producers are presently undeay. In August 1992, the PC Issued inviatons to
bid, which were publicized In local and foreign newspapers, to bid fr 15 other enterprises which
have since been evaluated. At the end of January 1993, deadline set up for bid submission to
give enough time to poteni bidders to acquire information on the enterpries hat are for sale
and, therefore, ensure that the bidding process will benefit from the greatest audience and
transparency possible, the Priaization Commission received 25 proposas to buy 10 public
enteprises. Finally, four local consulting firms are presently reviewing 12 of the 25 existig
EPICs to dewmin whether they should be classified as I3bbl i Publics I Caractbre
AdministraDf (EPAs) which are government agencies, or as commercial or industrial enterprises
which should be privized.
25.          For the 1994/96 period, the objective of the Privatzation Commission is to
evaluate and privatize 22 other public enterprises, as well as the EPICs which would have, been
converted into enterprises operating under the normal commercial law (An= 2). It wfll also
supervise the restructuring, which is presentdy underway with extern  bi-lateral fia=ng, of
some large enterprises among which are Sosuco (sugar), Paso Fani (textiles) and Soremib (gold
mine). The Privatzation Commission faces an enormous and lengthy task in its endeavor to
satisfactorily carry out the Goverment divestiture program. It needs to hire skilled personnel
to help it euate the aet of the etrrises offered for sale, evuat the bids receed and
negotiate the sale of public enterprises. While the sale of government assets is expected to
generate, in the future, enough resources to finance this assistance, the PC is likely to have to
rely on external financing durig the first years of operation.
H. THE INSlUFIIONAL SUPPORT TO PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
26.          In addition to a  a    policy and regulatory eviroment, ihe availabiity of
appropriate support and financl services ar  indispensable ingients to a sustnable
development of the private sector. During the era of government reliance on the public sector,
'J  bmprle 8qW   arm Shnc (sho), NAuaaiq (ae) Fand at Dan Fand D extilv
kteprkspn%iAd are SCP OM oaclo), S$UC ler), Brasa and Sabbro (ber).



8
pdvae entepreneurs received pracdcally no technical assismce ad very ltdo financig In
suppott of their operations. Goveent suppct Isitons were ill-equipped to provide them
with adeqa extension sevices and the fiacial sector catered primarily to the needs of public
entpises. With de change of attde towards the private sector, the Government realized th
te arr  of measures intended to foster the developmet of the private sector had to be
completed by a strengthening of the instudonal framework and of the financial system
Consequently it decided to prepare, witi the active coilaboration of the privae sector, the
strengthening of the Insttionl support to privat sector pfomotion, hl the course of project
preparation, it commissioned, with Japanese grant finaning, a consultig firm to review the
exisng framework of istuions proving extension services to privat entrep  s ad
another to assess the financial system with a view to evaluating its capacity to finamce prvae
investments and to mobilize the requir  term financIal resources.S  lhese stWdies were
completed in early June 1992. With regard to the  stiuional framework, the consultant study
reommended reviewing tho funions of the exting support insdbtion  with a view tD
elnating redundancies,   ening their ability to provide adequate services and iceasing
the involvement of the private sector in their operation. In August 1992, the GOBF established
the Commission do Concerati   a Government/Private Sector consultatve body compdsed of
24 members, of which 19 represent the private business community, to assist the Ministe  of
industry, Commerce and Mines and of Finance ad Plan in reviewing the studies, prepaing
appriate reform programs and implementig them.
A.    Government Instituns
27.          The Cwnbre de Conmere, de 1'Zndste*   de l'AWlkw  - CCIA. Crated
long before Burkina Fasos Independence from colonial rule, CCIA is at the center of the
instiutional framework supporting Burkhnabd enterprises. With a staff of about 200, annual
revenues of more than CFAF 1.5 billion and 1990 profit of about CFAF 400 million, it is the
most important of the Government instiutions dealing with the private sector. It was originally
conceived as a representative body of private entrpeurs of the industrial, commercW and
artisan sectors which were supposed to elect an Amblde C ai   (an eent D the
sbolders assembly of a corporate compay) which, in tun, appoints CCIA's Buru
Consula  whose powers ae similar to tose of the board of directors of a corporate enotepise.
In the early 1980s, fti process was modified by severa decrees, the most important of which
amended, in 1984, the statutes of the CCIA to align them with those applicable to EPICs.
CCUs independence from the state was then brought to an end. Today, this institution is under
the control of the MICM and the financial supervision of the Ministry of Finance  d Planning
(MFP). The Government designes the 50 members of its As-emblde Co'sud   and the 6
members of the Bureu Consu . CCIA's execuve stucure has been also complicated by
the establishment of an Admin ve Council comprised of 11 Govment appointees whose
role conflicts with that of the          . CCIA's functions stUIl consist of providing
intrmation and training services to its members, and of voicing their interests in the decisions
prepared by the Government with regard to policy and regulations that might affect them.
However, its mand   has been broadened to also Include the execution of economic studies on
~  5g~* Etade d cA*e hkmdoaa d#Md a la _flin  du MeM w 0   au Dmia F  . Aaw
1992 a9t
BW Remdunh  fimnhrelon vae d'ivwSuerkootntidel diwdYwtode 12 Igf
dix*e axs Alf  Zao.te l992. BJod s       a k In diXe pqWUm



9
bhaf of the Govenment, the mnagement of public            and the undertaling of any
commercial or industW  vent, relatng to the dwelopment of Burkina Paso's entepis.
28.          To cary out its mandae, the CCIA has, under a General Secretary appointed by
its Bur=  aulair, an  anaonal strucue comprised of eight directort  in its
headquarters in Ouagadougou and of offics in Bobo Dioulasso and in the ports of COtonoU and
Lomt. Most of CCIA's activities concentrate on managing its warebouses. Wit about 50% of
the instittions labor force, thre of the eight dioi are in dcarge of a complex network of
bonded warehouses and handling equipment established in the main train or truck sta     of the
coury as well as in the coastal ports where the country's imp    are docked and its expor
shipped. Only 10% of CCWs staff i8 employed by the two directorates In cge of delivering
information, training and tedchical assistance to privat entrepreneurs. To finance its operat,
in addition to the mrees from the sale of its services, the CCIA receives a fee varying from
CFAF 7S to 500 levied by the customs office on each ton of imported or exported goods. CCIA
also benefits from a 0.25% fee levied on the value of Imported or exported goods. lbis fee has
never been used, as anticipated, to constitta guaratee fumd for unpaid custom duties. In 1991,
the fees received by the CCUA represented about 28% of its total revenues. Overall, CCIA has
more than CFAF 6 billion of surplus funds that it invested in transport and storage facilities and
also in business operations which sometimes compete with those of its members.
29.          Despite its significant resources, the CCIA Is, according to 93 etrrises
surveyed during the review of the insttutional framework, of Ittle help to the private sector.
Only entrepreneurs operaing in extea trade appreciate its services in the areas of bonded
warehousing, an aciviy which could also be, according to many of ihem, successfolly nrried
out by private entrepreneurs. All entepreneurs surveyed believe that, because its present
management is appointed by the Government, CCIA's role as a defender of their interests is not
very credible. Furthermore, they do not perceive the CCIA as being very useful in pviding
adequate extension services: despite atempts made by extern  donors, including USAID and
CCCE, to strenen its departments in charge of delivering Information, training and tcnical
or marketin guidance to private entreeeurs, the support tha they have received so far is very
limited. Not only CCIA does appear to be relatively inffective in delivering adequate extension
semces and channeling externi donors' assitance but it is psrceivd as being a fiacial burden
on the enterprises because of the mandatory fees levied on Ilmported or exported goods to help
finance its operations.
30.          The Offlce NaUWad du Co.areeoe R04rkdr - ONAC. This insti  was
established in 1974 as an EPA (ft Ument pu1ij Ia care adminisrati to facDilitatehe
development of Burldna Paso's exten  trade, in particular its exports. ONAC reports to the
Ministry in charge of commerce. Its board of diectos as well as its general manager are
appointed by the Government It has a staff of about 60 people and an organional stucture
comprised of four departments in charge, respectively, of delivering commcinformation and
aining to enterprises, promoting Burkina Faso's poduts  on foreign markets, carrying out
mareting studies and preparig statics on extena trade, and of admin g the institution.
ONAC's operations are financed, like those of the CCIA, by a fee of 0.175% (reduced, since
1987, from 0.25%) on the value of all imports and expors. In 1990, Its revenues amounted to
about CFAF 400 million.
31.          According to the consultants' study the very existence of ONAC as a separate
agency is dubious, becase its activities are eiher of an administrative nature or redundant widi



10
toe of the CCIA. The only activity with which ONAC is given credit by the Bulna4W
enteprises, Is the pr   n of intational f    in which the CCIA participates. Very few
entreprenu  are aware of the other mandates of ONAC - such as pviding  tg    and
informaion  relating to intratonal trade - which are aso among CCIA's responsibilities.
Finally, ONAC's other tak, such as the preaation of trade stadstics or the cying out of
general market studies, are purely administrative and could be caried out, as It is commonly the
case, by civil servants of the Misty of Commrce.
32.          Co.sel B "wi         des Chaqewi - CDC. This Isition was originally
conceived as a profssional organization representing the country's importers, exporters and
transporters with a manda   prote their itest and facilitate their operations in the area of
sea, land and air tranportation. However, when it was officially creted in 1978, it was
established as a government-controlled agency (Etaklin public I cara.ctkroe ia1) whose
boad is comprised of nine members appointed by the Government, of which only two reprt
the private sector. The CBC is managed by a Geera Secray, also appointed by the
Government, and performs five main functions. It assists the Government In negotiating sea
freight tariffs with foreigni transporters and, thus, in seuing adequat and faily priced
tro    in  for Burkinas Imported or exported goods. In the area of land trn , CBC
supervises the implmntio of regional agreements, informs local trsporters on available
cargo from and to the coastal ports of LAmid, Cotonou and Abidjan and allocates this freight
ong them. This latter t A was, however, abandoned in late 1991 in the context of the TSAIP
preenty being implemented. Another Important activity of CBC is to provide, sometime in
competiion with CCIA, warehousing facilities, in and outside the country, to importe  and
exporters. Finally, CBC collects and dissemntes infomatibon    the transport sector activites
and prepares the related staiscal data.  CBC carries out these tasks with a staff of 9S and
through an orgaization which includes three depatment at the headquarters and vre ne s
and warehouses in the costal ports and in Bobo Dioulasso and Bitlou. CBC's 1991 revenue of
about CFAF I billion includes the fees that It chargs for Its sevices and, as In the case of CCIA
and ONAC, a tax of 0.25% of their value levied by the customs on all imported and exported
goods. In 1991, this tax represented about 44% of CBC's tot revenus.
33.          Like those of the CCIA and ONAC, CBC's functions are a complex mix of
administrative tasks and of commercial services.  he       sunrveyed concur in their
judgement that CBC is a bureaucratic institution which should be restuctured and privatized.
Entrepreneus of the shipping and transport industries are, however, far more critical of CBC's
performance than those of the industrial and commercial sectors. They feel that they are neiter
consulted by CBC on the problems that they fice, especialy with regard to cumbersome
adminitraive procedures, nor are they helped in soling them. Informaon on avaisable figh
in the coastal potsis not provided in a dmely fhion by the isution. Finaly, CC's and
CCIA's overlapping roles in the management of bonded warhous  and the inadequacy of their
services, especily with regad to merchandise handling, are perceived by the busness
community as a mis-allocation of the financial resources that they are compelled to provie to
these  ui.
B.    Privat hisdtutlons
34.          ProfeIonal oanions and consul_t   fm. Probably as a result of the
inefficiency of Government insitutons in delivering assist   to the private sector, or becase
of the entrepreneurW spirit of the BurknabEs, a myriad of private support iions exist in



11
Burkina Faso. They could be classified into two main cateores: profsional associations and
consuting fims. Accodig to the wonsuitants review of the support system to pvat seor
itiativere aro no lesss thas 46 professional etpreneurialassociations (&M    of the
productive and services sector (of which two are comrised of women entrepreneurs). The 19
most impotnt, including the associations of bankers, of importers and exporters and of
industialists consdttute   Cohe    National du iahkQ , the most powerfidi private orgaWnization.
The tole of these instittions is to protect the intres  of their members and to establish norms
an  sadards 8 fr their profession.  However, very few of them  ae really active or
representative. Their great mber aso results in a dispersion of efforts and initives which
is detrimental to their efficiency.
35.          According to the consultants' review, consulting and advisory services constie,
an important market (of about CFAF 5 billion/year) in which a great number of private
enterprises operate. The nmber of those whose services are directly related to enterpie
production and management (excluding law firms, architects and other miscellaneous service
activities) amounts to 93. They offer services in accountig (30), computer opeons (19),
manage_m  and marketing (25) and communication and advertizing (19) - (&nMeL 4 .. Only
acunting and auditing firms have been found to be retatvely well-stafd and competent Al
other seice companies, mostly those dealing with advertsing and marketing, which are two of
the most impta shortcomig of the Burkinabe private enterprs, are weak, lack qualified
personnel and requre  te    tecnical assistance to strengthen their skills.
36.          External donors programs. Several multi- and bi-lateral donors have initated
programs to assist private entrepreneurs (Annex  . In addition, a multude of NMOs, associated
in a national tederation (Eddraion des Orgnisations Non Gouvernementales - FONG)
headquartered at the ifnisiy of Finance and Planning, operate in Burkina Paso. Th most
important of them are the Frenicb  agnie  raase de PDopmt which assis piva
entrepenes through the CCIA, and the cooperative banking scheme that SocIerntonale
de &AelOnUMt.Deardins (SDID), a Canadian agency, established in 1981. Exteral donors
programs are scattered all over the country and are, sometimes, overlapping or competng - for
example in the area of intere rates and credit conditions. During project preparaton svera
meeting were held in the field with the representatives of the external donors which have ongoing
programs to assist private entrepreneurs in Buddna Faso. All agreed that coordination of their
assistance is needed to ensure more consistency in their acions. Although, their intvendons
are uniquely geared towards micro or informal enterprises, they welcomed the establishment of
a support structe ta would be the focal point to dispatch the local and exteral assista
available to pdvate entrepreneurs. They also agreed that a restructred CCLA could play this role
and become an efficient go-between in the delivery of aistace to private enteprn.
C.    Proposed reform o the bstutional Framework
37.          The existing f1ramework which was established during the years of Goverment
nterventionism is, as mentioned above, unable to effectively provide services that are essenti
to usne  development of the private sector. The support institutions are globaly inefficient
as a result of their own weaknesses as well as of their great dispersion which results in
redundancy, overlapping and sometimes competition which are detrimental to their overall
achievements. The existence of so many private institutions constitutes, nevertess, the
evidence of the vitality of private initiative that the Government has decided to use to establish
a support system that is coherent and capable of efficieny stimulatng the development of privat



12
Initiative. Rather than creating new  tutions, it was agreed during appraisal tt the
rationalization and privatization of the structure cont  of the CCIA, ONAC and CC ould
provide a sound basis to the establishment of such a support system. The GOBF has, tharefore,
committe itself to achieve this objective and prepared a program to srengt    support and
fina     insfitutions spelled out in a Policy LIter which was discussed daig appraisal (&m
0). Ibis program is based on the following main principles that a   o descrie in the second
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) being presendy negotiated with the Bank and the IMP:
(a)   the new support system should be private and, thus, the structure
composed of the three institons will be reorganized with a view to
transfering all tasks of a public service nature that they presently
perform to the Central Government and all the others to the private
sector;
(b)   as a result of this restmucbtg the CCIA would become the foa point
for channeling information and assistance to private support institions
and private productive eepises; and,
(c)   the Government would provide technical and financial support to help
strengten the new private structure, chiefly the CCIA, provided that
aporiate mechanims are devised to ensure that, once privadzed, it
would become self-sufficient over a specified period of time.
M. TWE FINANCIAL SECTOR
38.          In Burkina Faso, as in most UMOA counties, the financial sector is
phisticated by interniona standards. It consists of a linited number of commercial banks
and of non-bank financial institons including consumer credit companies, the posta checking
and savings network, and insurance companies and conrctua savings inst"ions. In the
iformal sector, effts are being made to develop mutualist or cooperative banking.
39.          The financial sector is also fiagmented and fimncial intermediation is shallow.
With the exception of the imortat deposits that the contractual savings institutions make in the
banks, there Is practically no business relation between each type of finacial  suion. The
commercal banis are the only lenders for investng in the moden sector of the economy.
Although the banking system seems to enjoy substanal liquiWty, which has declined over the
recent years because of portfolio problems, investment financig is scarce. Except for a few very
large ventumes and, in the past for ioefficient public eterprs  and Government projects, the
banks have granted practically no term loans to finance investments. Short-term commercial
loans and bank-overdrafs consttute virtuly the only financial instument available in the
system.
A.    Non-bank fina l InstIudons
40.          These institutions include: (i) embryonic cooperative and mutualist institutions
operating in the informal sector mosdy in the rral areas of the couny; (Q) four conumer
credit companies which are the Socidtd i aionale d'6auinement et de leasing (SIEL), te
SocM Burldnabe d'equipme  (SBE), the Fmancibre du       (FM) and e SocM gm le
cr  autmomobile (SOBCA); (di) the Postal checking and sav    syst1n tem(m     diq



13
oos and Caine nationale d'r         - CCP/CNE); and, (fv) five conactl savin
institutioks which include free insurae companies, the SocMt nadonale d'assuance et de
(SONAR), the Union des assuaces du Burkina (UJAB) and 4 Eo.Q=k des
ancs 7(FONCIAS) ad the social secity and re             fids (de Case natonale d
dauritI6    (CNSS) and the Caisse d'Mg        naigt  des fIQ ctiQg   (CARFO)).
41.          Mme Informal financa initutlons.  A number of  sttionsen gae in
mobilizing resources fom, and ganting credit to, the segmet of the population which does not
have access to the formal financial system. Along with informal mutualist ornzaions based
on credit risk-sharng among their members, extera donors have established agencies to
financially support entrepreneurs of the informal sector. Of the sever?d mutualist ilsttutons, two
are the most prominent: the Unn des gges  fta= st d             t  d  (USECB
and the nework of Caisss oWaires iardin (SDID) established with Candian assisace
along the lines of mutut corporations of this country. USECBE and SDID each have a
network of agencies operat  mosdy in rural areas and which consists of 67 cooperaves for the
fm    and 27 Csm POW        forthelatter. With about I1,000 members, COPECs collected
about CFAF 400 million in 1991, of which about 200 million were used to grant credit to its
members. In the meanime, the Caisse       aes succeeded in atacting about 30.000
members, In collecting about CFAF 900 million and granting about 325 million of credit. Both
nsttutions are reported to be prudent and efficient with a loan recovery ratio over 90%.
42.           m     the instiutions established with exta donos assistance the most
noiceable are the UNDP assted Ponds d'apui     activins remunratrices des femmes
(FAARDF), PRODIA and Sahel Action. Their actvit is, however, negligible. In 1991,
FAARDF lent about CFAF 22 million to 496 goups of 5 to 6 women. PRODIA had extded
about CFAF 90 million of credit to 290 applicants and Sahel Action CFAF 22 million to 27
groups of borrowers.
43.          Thecnmer_credit nsitutiens. TheseInstiutionsmosdyfinancethepurchase
of vehicles, bikes and durable goods. They are all private, except for SOBCA, in which the
Government owns 29%. They play a maqgn role in the country's economy and, in 1991, their
tal credit portfolio amounted to about CPAF 3.5 billion or 3% of the bank' total credit to the
economy. Recent inspections of the UMOA Commissio aaige have revealed that their
situaon is precarious and, given the small volume of their business, their long-term viability is
uncetain. SIEL is in the process of being liquidated while FIB has been put under receivership.
In order to *straight  up' consumer credit institutions, the Government has decided to subject
the two renaiing insitudons to the same scruty that t proposes for the banis (para. 50). A
financial restrucring plan to be implemented at the time of its privaization would be prepared
for SOBCA while the shareholders of SBE would be compelled to adequately recapitalize this
institution.
44.          Tbe post  dhedkn  and savgs sysem  (Compte  Cqaes Pestax and
Calse NatNomale d'fpEwrg - CCP and CNE). These Government owned istitutions play an
important role in the collection of small savings of the general public in the urban as well as in
the ruri areas of the country. They are both part of the Postal system. The CCP's main
objective is to facilitate, by delivering a check book to its depositors, money transfers between
depositors inside and, through convendons with foreign posta services, outside of the counry.
Whfle the CCP does not remunerate deposits, the CNE pays an interest of 7.5% per year to small



14
depositors. ni 1991, the CCP and the CNE had collected dposits amon_tg to about CFAF 18
bilion or about 15% of total bank deposits. These were In tu  deposited in the Tresy.
Given the serious budgetary consainuts that it faced in the late 1980s, te Govemment syphoned
off their liquidities.  Besides divertng precious resources from the economy, this pracdce
resulted in a threat to the health of these insutions. Ibe treasury debt to the CCPICNE
amounted to about CFAF 10 billion while the banks detned about CFAF 7 billion in checks
Issued by the Goverment to py its civil servants, that the CCP owld not pay because of lack
of liquidides. Realizing the danger to the savings mobilization process th could resut from this
practice, the Government agreed with the Bank and the IMF, in the context of the ongoing SAL
and of the second PFP negotiated in late 1992, to address this problem and to restructure he
CCPICNE. Ithe Go ment has since repaid about CPAF 3.5 billion of the CCP debt to the
bans and has scheduled repayment of the remainder by the end of 1993. The Goverment bas
also agreed to repay its debt to the CCPICNE over a period of three years beginning in 1993.
In the long term, the Government envisages giving the CCP/CNE a more active role in small
savings mobilization and, more generally, in the financia inermediation process. To ths end,
it enviages converting the CCP/CNE system into a financial institution which would continue
to use the network of the postal system to receive deposits, and possibly grant credits to Its
customers, but whose finds woul no longer be deposied in the Governmen treasury, rather
they would be lent on the interbank market. The BCEAO supports this conversion which has
been reenty applied to the CCP/CNE of Mali.
45.          The contracual saving instiutions. Together these instiutions constitute the
major source of term-deposits of the banking system. However, since 1989, the deposits of
CNSS and CARFO have drastically decreased because of increased Govermenet borrowing.
According to the following table, in 1992 they were esimated to have lqukdities amountng to
about CFAF 71 billion (or US$ 280 million) of which about 40 billion were lent either to the
Government or to public enterprises, about 25 billion deposited in the banks (this represents about
21% of their total deposits) and the rest invested directly, primay in housing projects.
TABLE 2
Lending of Contractual Savings Institutions
(in CFAF billion, as of June 1992)
.o:ernmea ttreasury  Banks       O,heIs       Tota:
CNSS                 29.1                 16.6        5.7       51.4
CARPO                10.0                  2.1                   12.1
insuncompanies           0.05                 4.72        1.7       7.47
Total               39.15                23.42        7.4       70.97
46.          The contrt   savings ins"tions could become a major source of term-
finaig for private investments. However, this requires, firstly, hat their term-deposits in the
banks become more stable, which assumes that Government borrowing be eliminate   nd
secondly, that adequate fianca intermediation instuments exist to use the liquidites of the
contactu saving institutions to provide financing term to investment projects. The first problem



is
is being addressed sine  1989, when the Goverment Weed In the first PFP to eamark &ds
in the budget to repay Its debt towards the CNSS and to narea  budgetary displine to
deimin  new borrowing. In the context of the ongoing SAL, acuial studies of CNSS and
CARPO are exected to be copleted in 1993 to hmonize the level of Goverament and
employee contributions t these fmds with their expected fut   liabilities. With regad to
lending in_sumet for invtment financing, their need will become more critical in 1993 when
the decision taken at te UMOA level to limit deposits of insurance companies in the bank to
30% of their liqudes - the remainder to be invested on capial market - is to be implemeted.
This measr could be de          to investmen  in countries such as Burkina Paso by
encoragig capital flight towards countries of the UMOA zone that have capitl markes to use
the surplus fimds hat a  avaable. Howver, the private sector has already underten
iniatives that should be Wpported to establish fiacial instruments to mobilize term resources
for investmnt financing. Private busiessme are carrying out a study to establish a venture
capital company while some banks have indicated their wilingness to creae mutual fund type
bstrumens to fcilitate the prchase of shares by individuals in public enpises to be
ptvazed.
B.    The banig systm
47.          Since 1991, when three alling Governmet banks were merged, Burkina Paso's
banking ssem  consists of six banks: the Da _                 1e Commrce. I
gJ:Agl qnlar. (BICIA); the Bm= Intemationale du Burkina (BIB); the Ban= Natonae
3dyeigo=emen duW Burkina(BND-B); the Ban=ge pour le Financement du Commerce et de
lIndse (BFCI); the aiM Nationale de D lgmon= AgEiole (CNCA); and the Dm1gu
i;e Lh3m    duurkM  (AUB). Detailed iformation on the country's banking policisi
and reguaions and the description of the banilg system are given in  hlex 7.
48.          Banss' peformance and bankig sector reform. In 1990, audits carried out
by the BCEAO revealed that although the banking system had, on the whole, a comfortable
liquidty position, of the eight banks then in operation, five (BB, BND-B, BFCI, UREBA and
CAI) had their portfolios severely affected by delinquent loans. Ihe unroverable loans of these
bank were estimated at about CFAF 49 bilion, for which they had made provisions mount
to only about CPAP 29 billion. I additon, they postd losses amouig to about CFAP 21
billion and, as a result, their net worth was negative by about CPAF 28 billIon. In the context
of the first PFP and of the ensuing SAL, the GOBP initiated, in 1991, the rehbiilitation of the
banking system, yet to be completed, whose main objective is to restore the financial siuation
of the ailing banks and to reduce the state participation in the capital of all the baoks to a
maxinum of 25%. As a first step towards this goal, it merged BFCI, UREBA and CAI. The
resting bank group and BND-D were put under ap6 The Government
then undetook to financially restructure the ailing banks. To restore their balance sheets, it
traferred about CFAF 49 billion of their noneforming loan to a newly established recovery
agency (the Bureau de Recouvrement des Crdances du Burkina BRCB). To compensate the
reduction of the banks assets, their liabilities were also reduced as shown in the following table.
1/ h&the Xa.oa systa, thr is no cract eq-ivaket to ths mesure w c consists dn &imW  de
board f e habtk nd qopboA x an adM W t    a andate to ruatrnw* an a&n mem7L or propose
in llradon in  even *t rewwctprovew to be bopw0ke.



16
Table 3
Restrucing of the baks' balance shees
(In CFAP billion)
RWWMO                           Reduction gf Iabilitie
Bad loans transferred to BRCB   49    Provisions cancelled              29
Loss  written-off                a1    Reduction of capital             13
Liabilities assumed by the GOBF 1/  25
GOBF deposits lost              I
Total                     70           Tota                      70
I/     QOf kh 9 tW* 11 BCEAO and 16 sowar& &e Socia Se'w*jy ysy.
49.          The Government also initiated discussions with potential private investors to sell
the comerisl banks. So far BND-B is the only bank for which no private investor has
manifested interest. In early 1992, a foreign ban, the Meridian group, bought, in association
with local private investors, 49% of BIB's capital. The Goverment retuced its share to 25%,
the remaining 26%, still owned by public etises, are managed by the Da=   OL-
Aaif    i de Q omAWS=  (BOAD) which acts a their tusee. Negodtions are presenly
underway with foreign parters associated with private Burkina  investors to privatize the group
BFCVUREBA/CAI and BICIA.
50.         In late 1991 and early 1992, however, the Banking Commision (mmniuiQn
Bancaix - CB) of the UMOA again audited all the banks and fod  hat despite the financial
restruct    made in 1991 reported above, the banks situation had further deeriod. Te
examiners of the Baning Commission found that the banks, with the exception of CNCA, needed
to make about CFAF 16.2 billion in additional provisions for bad loans, most of which were
ated to insolvent public enterprises. Ihe Government agreed, during the negotiations of the
second PFP with the Bank and the IMP, to a program aiming at completng the restructuing of
the banking system. The objecive of this progm is to achieve the privatization of BICIA and
of the group BFCIIURE/CAI before the and of June 1M   and that of CNCA before the end
of 1993. To this end, it includes the following measures: (t) the CB iopecon reps of the
bank would be updated by independent auditors (with terms of referece agreed upon with the
Bank) and a financia restrucring plan to be negotiated with the banks potentia buyers would
be prepared; (ii) foi each bank, the updated audit report, the restructring plan and the agreement
reached with its potent  new shareholders woud be submitted to IDA's approval; and, (iii) upon
approval of these documents by IDA, a budgetay contribution would be made available to
restruacure the balance sheet of the concerned bank prior to its privatization. With regard to
BND-B, it was agreed that: (O independent auditors would establish, in early 1993, whether it
is fincially viable or not; and, (ii) a decision based on the results of the audit, on whether to
liquidate or maintain the bank, would be made jointly by the Government, the Bank and the IEP
no later th March  1L 1993. Finally the GOBF committed itself to selling to private investors,
before the end of 1993, the shares of public enterprises in BIB presgAty managed by the BOAD.
51.          The need to Improve overall financial nt  on    In their report, the
consultants expressed the opinion that even When the commercial banks have been properly
restructured and privatized, financia intermediation will not be adequate to respond to the



17
demand for private invemet findng.   is demand, assese by the consultantsW, consis
of about CFAF 6 bIllin of investment which I expected to be mad by the private sector In the
neat three yes, of which CFAF 5 billion would aid in the expansion of 10 exIsting private
entrprses and about CFAF 1 billion would help etablish about a dozen newnt. In
addi, accordiag to estim    of the Privat on Commision, about CPAP 4.5 million would
be requied from the private sector ove the nx five years to buy the public epr that are
for sale. It is luikely however that in theshot-termthebankls system will  donits
tradional reluctance to fince private investmet operations. Duig the perod 1985/90, the
banks cobuted ondy 3% of the finacing of investmevts made in the 15 largest private
enses as reported in table below.
TABLE 4
Origin of finacing of investm    made In 15 enepris.
(1985/1990 in CFAF million)
Number of enteprises     Invesment          % of total
l _______________    _________________    in  m llions  of CFA F  fin
Equt finang              1s                  4,928               81
External fiancing        2                    973                16
Bank finacing            2                    162                 3
Total                  15                  6,063               100
52.          The conultants have identified several reasons for the banks' reluctace to more
actively engage in investment financg.  Some relate to the  glains of the UMOA wone:
among them are the credit ceings imposed by the BCEAO In order to control the money sWply
and the interest rates structure which act as a deterent to investment financig. Presenty, the
bank can earn about 11% per year by investing on money maket mostly short-term deposits on
vwhich they do not pay any Interest. The 16% they can charge for term-loans (the maximum
authoized by the BCEAO) would provide them with an extra margin of about 5% which does
not adequately compeate the risk attached to this type of lending. At the county level the other
reasons mentioned include the banks' difficulty in identifying profitable projects and following
up on the investmeats that they finance, the lack of adequate collatera on the part of the
borrowers and the inappropriateness of the procedures for loan recovery or realization of
---- A    .    Finaiy, the consultants study points out to the fact that the only fiaci  tool
available consists of bank loans and that there is no finaial inme  to mobilize either
cntracual saving institution funds or to syndicate small invetMen  to finance bMstn
53.          In order to strengthen the financial sector, the GOBF has decided to complete fis
the restructuring and privazation of the banking system by implenting the measres
recommended by the consultants to improve overall finlancial        In addition to
O &the 153 ewerp*es &ex4te by 313, th 21 biget we *oroughly wanzeX*
O° l two of the 15 enteip.*esrvcl edbincrdtand w  tez   bandetra c rei



18
helping the private sector create adapted financial instruments, it esages taking steps to create
the conditions for more active participation by the banks in investment financing. These
measur  oooncen the promotion of the use of land as collateral by borrowers and the
strengthening of the laws applying to delinquent debtors. With regard to the former, in 1991 the
Government took steps to Improve the land tenure law by adoptng in the context of the SAL
dispositions providing individuals the right of land ownership. Under the PID presently under
Implemenation, a new revio of the law would address Ises of ownership and credit security,
particulady in a business context, that had not been sufficiently taken into account in the first
revision. As regards bad loan recovery, the GOBF has given clear signals to potential delinquent
borrowers by establishing the BRCB which recently published in the Jon  QW    the names
of all individuals who have, so far, defaulted on banks loans and overdrafl. Since its inception
the BRCB has, as of end 1992, recovered about CFAF 2 billion, a performance slightly below
an expet level of CFAF 2.6 billion. In order to accelerate bad loan recovery, the GOBF has
decided to: (i) give the BRCB the same privilege as the Goverment tax services which are
exempted fiom going tirough a judicial process to recover their dues; and, (i1) strengthen its
organization and procedures. In addition, while the cos: to the banko' of foreclosure operations
would be lessened, the lmws relating to delinquent debtors would be strengthened by making it
a penal offense to write bad checks and, for delinquent debtors, to attempt to shield their assets
from banks' foreclosure proceedings.
VL GOVERNMEN STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR IDA'S INVOLVEMEN
54.          Since 1990, the GOBF has adopted an approach to liberalization based on the
divestiture from public enterpres and the reliance on the private sector as the man engine of
economic growth. 'he Bank has supported this approach through a fis SAL, three sector
operations - in agriculture, transport and public works - and a Public Instituional Development
project. These operations aim at introducing the reforms needed, at a global as well as at a
sectoral level, to relieve policy and regulatory obstacles to the development of the private sector
and, at the same time, at btansfeing to private investors the financial, industrial and commercW
enteprises which used to constitute the public enterprise sector. The Government has decided
to take one more step towards supporting the development of the private sector by establishing
a private instittioual support structure and financial institions capable of providing private
etrepreneurs with technical and financial assistance. The two instruments are indispensable for
private entrepreneurs to take advantage of the reformed economic environment and expand their
role in the economy. This strategy is spelled out, as mentioned earlier, in the Program for the
Strengthening of the Financial and Support Institutions. In line with this strategy, the proposed
project would, therefore, assist the Government in implemenfing its program while helping
consolidate the adjustment efforts pursued under the other projects supported by the Bank.
55.          Lessons larned from previous Bank experience. The Public Institutional
Development project (P)ID) is the only technical assistance project and, because it is not yet
implemented, it cannot provide lessons that the proposed project could use. Tne preparation and
design of this project is, therefore, based on the Bank's experience and lessons learned from
similar projects in Sub-Saharan Africa. Firsly, the TA proposed in the project will take place
in the context of a policy and regulatory environment which is becoming, with the reforms of the
SAL, conducive to a sustainable development of the private sector. Secondly, project preparation
has focussed on enlisting Government and private sector support for the objectives of the project
hough the establishment of the Government/Private Sector Commissionde Conceraion which
has participated in the project design and is expected to play a major role in its implementation



19
as wcl as i te periodic evaluation of its results. The objcves and most of thTe rmof
rerence of the assistance proposed in the project have ben dsussed very arly In t  proct
cycle and agreed on during appraisal. Thirdly, the projet would  e  on building the
capacity of exisig Government and private nstuions rather t    establishing now ones.
Accordingly, the TA provided by the project, with local consultant's input whene   possible,
is of a short-term nature in order wo minimize incremental recurret costs as well as to ensure a
tamsfer of skills and knowledge to the staff of the project institios. Th training kiluded in
the project will be delivered on-the-job and will be tailored to the needs of the nsituto
concerned. Finally, carefl attention has been given to the identificaton of the objeedves that
can be achieved during the project and of the key project indicators and evaluation crea,
described in A1a,_4, in order to allow a precise assessment of the project's progress ad
results.
56.          Coordination with IFC. ITe Bank and IFC have already cooperated closdy in
the development of a new and important zinc mining operation in Perkoa (paa. 9). A Private
Sector Assessmen has been prepared, on basis of which a common strategy has been agreed on
which will assist the private sector in Burkina Faso. The distortions in Burkina Faso's ecoomy
are stll such that IFC does not envisage a major role for the momen In the long term, however,
when the business enviromnent reforms presently underway are completed, IFC could assist
trough its usa range of activities. The most immediate prospects for direct investment lie in
the mining sector, as the mining code is reformed. There may also b small-scale posilits for
the African Enterprise Fund. In the mediumterm possibilities for the IFC to assist export-
oriented and import-substitution projects may arise, if the reforms are suffiienty wide-ranging
and durable.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Object}ves
57.          The ultimate objective of the project is to help create an institonal environment
capable of providing the support required to ensure a sustainable growth of the private sector.
The objective is in keeping with the GOBF's far-reaching reform program aimed at llizing
the country's economy. To this end, the Government has outlined a program to ste rgte
support and financial titons in a Policy Letter (&nne), which was officialy submitted to
IDA during negotations (ara. 93 (a)), meaures aimed at  ) puruing empl         of
the meres inidated under the SAL, namely, the improvement of the    atie services
ta it ought to provide to the private sector and the priatzation of public entrpis  and
financial institutions; (ii) reorganizing the instonal support system to prvate   by
transfering to the Government, the activities of civil service nature presently pdforme by the
existing support instutions which would, then, be restructured, privadzed and strengthened; and,
(ili) supporting measures to strengthen financial intermediation. The proposed technical asstce
project would support the implementation of this program. To achieve this objective, it would:
(a)    build on the achievements of the SAL by aisting the Minisy of Induslty,
Commerce and Mines (MICM) in pursuing the Government divestiture program
from public enterprises and in streamlining of adminisative procedues relating
to extn  trade and to the establishment of new private enpries;



20
(b)    assist to carry out the  on   amd strengthening of the institonal support
strucure for private sector development in order to arrive at a filly privadzed
Chmber of commerce (CCIA) Which wiUl play a prominent role in facilitating
the delivery of assistance, either locally avaiable or provided by etra donors,
to privae eneprise and entrepreneur; and,
(c)   support the Ministry of Finance and Planng (MFP) in compleen8g the
privat;izonoftheflnanclal system and sengthefing ncial intrmdiionby
helping it: () negotate the sale of Government shares in financial institutions;
(i) sengthen the laws govening bad checks and actions taken by the finaal
institutions against delinquent debtors; and, (iil) identify the colditions for
establishing new private financial instruments to facilitate the financing of private
investme, particularly, in public enterprise to be privatized and In new
ventues.
B.    Poject Descipion
58.          The proposed technical assistance project would finance, over a four year period,
consuldtant  services, expert advise and equipment to promote institional development.
DrawviDg on previous Bank experience, the project has been designed with the active participation
of the Government and the private sector both of which have recognized the need for reforms in
the institutional framework for the promotion of private activites. The assistce to be provided
under this project would be, for the most part, short-term in nare and is designed to help the
project institutions become self-reliant over a definite time period. In line with the objectives
described above, the proposed project, to be supported by an IDA credit of US$ 7 million dollars
equivient, would consist of the three components: assistance to the MICM (about US$ 1.17
million equivalent), an institutional support component (USS 2.75 million equivalent) and a
financial sector component (of US$ 810,000 equivalent).
59.          Asisstance to the MICM. This cowmponent will finance short-term technical
sistlce training and equipment to improve the MICM capacity in (i) administering the
procedres relating to extemal trade and the establishment of new private businesses; and, (ii)
efficiently carrying out the Government program for divestiture from public enterprises.
60.          Samingof the minist's podr relaX to priva sector auivities. As
conditions of the ongoing SAL, the MICM has established a one-step window (eice uke des
Qratiws de Comnmee Efrieut) to handle all administrative procedures required by importers
and another (icet uniq  des in vim n ) to admist the requests of investors seeking
the benefits of the investment code (see paras. 15 and 18). Although the operations of the go
uiwu in charge of exten  trade are expected to be gradually reduced during the SAL period,
it will have to admnster efficiently the prior declrations required from importers to prepare the
pre-shipment controls to be carried out by SGS. The ismance of these decarations and the
matching of their contet with that of the documents resulting from SGS controls will require an
enormous amount of work. While the establishment of the gichgetii do invesissements
is expected to simplify the administration of the investment code, entrepreneurs willing to create
new enterprises without the benefits of the code have still to follow cumbersome administrative
procedures involving several Ministries. In order to further streamline the process leading to the
establishment of new businesses, the Government has agreed, as mentioned in earlier paa 18,
c extend the role of the guichet unique des investissements to the administration of the



21
procedures relating to the establishment of aU new nterprises whether they seek the benefits of
the Ilnvetent code or not. Both windows, which are expected to carry out an Important
workload, lack presedy the proper organization and procedures to efficiently pfm  oations
that are critcal to the operations of private entrepreeurs. The project would, therfore, finance:
(i) technical aistance to improve their orgaization and procedures; and, (ii) computer
equpment to proems oely and expeditiously their administve tasks. Befre negotiation,
the Govenment adopted an arrtE extending the role of the gkhet u&igue do4 inveis nts
to the processing of all investmenvt requests. The terms of reference for the assimce to the two
windows discussed during appraisal bave been finalized and agreed on during negotiations
(&fD   8?.
61.          IvWto the RiaiawCommiss    The work program of thec ommission
(Annex 2) and its budget for the period 1993/96 were agreed on during project appraisal. To
facilitate the implementation of the overall privatization program, the Government has agreed to
officially publish, before the end of April 1994, (para. 96 (a)), the list, previously approved by
IDA, of all enterprises to be privatized. As mentioned earlier in par  25, the Prvatain
Commission will have to rely, during its first year of operations, on exteral financing. In 1992,
it benefited from the Bank's support through a PPF and a Japanese grant. The project would
finance a one year continuation of the services of an exate  expt, recrited during project
preparation, to help carry out the divestiture program. It would also finance part of the
consulting services needed to help evaluate the enterprises to be privazed, as wel as part of the
operating costs of the Privatization Commission. However, the credit would finance these costs
only for the first year of the project. The costs for the following years would be financed by the
proceeds of the sales of public enteprises. The PFP exped to be agreed on with the Bank and
the M   in Mrch 1993 contains the Government's commitment to make a budget allocation to
fnd the operations of the commission beginnig in the second half of 1994.
62.         Institutional Support Component. The purpose of this component is to
reorganize the support structure comprised of the CCIA, the CBC and ONAC by: (i) redefining
the mandates and fuctions of ihese instuitons in a way that would allocate AU the tasks related
to assistg private entrepreneurs to the CCIA; (ii) privatzing and streogthening the CCIA to
adequately asist private enterprises, in acquiring the assistance that they need to improve their
operaions; and (ill) rationalizing the management of warehouses and shipping equipment
presently under CCIA and CBC control. In addition, the project would help finance, through the
restructured CCIA, technical assistance to private entrepreneurs.
63.          Reogaon of the inst al spo                  Under this sub-component
the project would finance:
(a)   the services of a local law firm to prepare the privatiation of the CCIA. Ihe
consultts, whose tems of reference have been agreed on during apprai
(Amne 9A), would work closely with rerentatives of the privte sector,
particularly with the    b_ajdekCnwzia  , to: (i) identify the prfeiona
organizaions which would be willing to be represented in the CCIA with a view
to ensuring a wide and balanced repeetaton of the private sector, including
women and iormal entrepreneurs; (-d) propose to the ftue members of the
CCIA the rules goveing the composition of the              and h
election of its members and the rules by which the president and general
secretary of the CCIA and the high level staff of its executive bodies would be



22
appoined; and, finaly, OiH) propose accordingly a revision of the staWtes and by-
laws of the CCIA and help prepae the election of the first Assemblee
Cowaim  'he completion of this election s aof e     ffogiue of the
project (para. 94 (a)).
(b)    a cons sXdy, whose terms of reference have been agreed on at appraisal
(Amx 9B), to prepre the rationalization of CCIA, ONAC and CBC and the
techical asstance to help implement it, when the study's recommendations have
beea reviewed and Agd on by MA and the GO . Ihis rationalization would
consist of transfern  all the tasks of an adminiaive nature that these
institutions presendy perfom  to the Govement, and those consistng of
asitance to private entrepreneurs presendy pefomed by CBC and ONAC to
the CCIA. On the basis of the review of the support system and in dose
coordination with repeentatives of the private sector, the consultants woud
identy the functions that each institution should perform. Ihe consultants would
also propose: (i) on the basis of a financial audit of the three institutions a
reallocation of their assets consistent with their new functions; and, (f) a
restructuring plan for the CCIA and, in the event that their existence is still
justified, for ONAC and CBC. With regard to CCIA, the restucturing plan
would include a definition of the organizonal structure most suitable to
efficiendy assist private entrepreneurs, the procedures and the staffing required,
and fiancal projections to determine the conditions of CCIA's viability.
FinaUly, the restucturing plan would include an implementation timetable and
the technical assistance necessary to make CCIA fully operational. This plan
would be based on the following principles: (i) CCIA would not itself deliver
tchnical assistance to entrepreneus but would rather help them receive it from
exisdng privat enteprises or external donors' assistance programs, and
therefore, CCIA should promptly acquire the most accuato information on all
sowues of aistance to private entrepreneurs available locally or abroad; (H)
CCIA would not have any control over entrepreneurs' access to sources of
tenical assistance; and, (iii) the CCIA should become financially self-sufficient
in the medium-term, however, in the interim period, it could receive a
government subsidy or external donors assistance. Since the restructring of the
CCIA is a crucial element of the project the issuance of the invitations to bid for
this study is a condition of effectiveness (par 94 (b)).
(c)    a consultant study to prepare the rationalization of the management of the
inastructure of CCIA and CBC. As described earlier, these two instuons
each have bonded warehouses and shipping facilities for internaional transports
and trade. The project would not only help eliminae duplication between the
two institons in these areas but make the most efficient use possible of these
faclities. To this end, the consultants' study would analyze the legal status and
ownership of the facilities managed by CCIA and CBC (some belong to the
Government, ethers to the CCUA or the CBC) to propose the administaie
and/or legal measures needed to regroup them into a single institution. It would
also make proposals to privatize the management of this institution through a
management contract with private entrepreneurs or its sale to the pdvate sector.
The terms of refnce of this study (Anne%x9) were agreed on during
a-p.



23
64.   According to the implementtion planning in AmLex 13. the studies mentioned in (b) and
(c) above would be ompleted and submitted to the GOBF and IDA for review by March 1994.
Restructuring plans would be agreod on by the GOBF and IDA Including the terms of refeec
for the TA required implementation by June 1994 (para. 96 (b)) and their implementaton is
expected to be completed by March 1995 for the restructuring of CCWCBC/ONAC and by
December 1994 for the rationalization of CCIA, and CBC's facilities.
65.          AssMsmceto CCIA and to ,Va etprnrs. Under this sub-component, the
project would finance short term expertise to help the resuctured CCIA: (i) establish a data base
which would record all ailable local and foreign souices of assistance to improve private
enterprises operations, help private entrepreneurs carry out feasibility studies and/or obtain the
financial support needed to create new ense s; (ii) strengthen its capacity to evaluate
entriepreneurs needs in terms of technical assistance; and, (iii) follow up and assess the results of
the assisance received with its help by private entrepreneurs.
66.   In addition, the projec would finance, through the restructured CCIA, part of cost of the
technical assistance needed by private entrepreneurs. Project preparation (i particular the
consltans review of the instiutional support system) has revealed that, for several reasons,
private entrepreneurs seldom solicit assistance from the numerous sources existing n Burkina
Often they are not aware that this assistance is available. Generally they are not able to identify
the kind of assistance that they need to overcome their problems. Entrepreneurs also perceive
external assistance as being too expensive and do not realize that its benefits could by far exceed
its cost. CCIA is expected to become, with the project assistance, capable of helping
entrepreneurs take advantage of the sources of assistance avaidable to them. To support CCIA
in achieving this objective, the project would finance part of the cost. of the assistance needs that
entrepreneurs would have identified with CCIA's help. Aragen between the CCIA and
private entrepreneurs to deliver this financing, to be proposed by the consultants in charge of
restructuring the CCIA, would have to be approved by IDA. Ihese arrangemeats would be based
on the following principles: (i) CCIA's assistce would be open to all entrepreneurs who reqest
it even if they are not members of the CCIA; and, (ii) CCIA's financing of technical assistance
would be based on a maching grant formula acceptable to IDA. Disburements under tis sub-
component would be su        to the gompletion of CCIA's reoranzatond IDA's
on the arrantm= mentioned earlier (para. 97).
67.          Findal sector component. During the life of the project, the Government
will pursue the privatzation of public enterprises including the commercial banks, a consumer
credit instition and an insurance company in which it is still majority shareholder. Ihe proposed
project will provide tecbnical assistance to the Ministry of Finance and Plan while suPPOring
measures aiming at strengthening overall financial intermediation.
68.          Assistance to the MFP. The project will finance: 1) the services of an expert
invesm   banker to help the MFP evaluate and negotiate investors proposals to buy financial
institutions; this expert to be provided by a well-established investment banldng insdtion would
be available on demand; and, (di) technical assisnce to improve the organization and procedures
of the BRCB and equipment to computerize its operations. To ensure that this later assisnce
will result in improved performance of the BRCB, the Government has agreed to adopt
appropriate legislation confeing effectively to the BRCB the same coUlection privileges as those



24
Of the Govermet tax serices.  Ihe implemenon of this measure b a condition of
effeedmess (pr. 94 (c)).
69.           tng         fJl al Jit. Under this sub-component, the
project would finance:
(a)    the udae of the Banldn, Commission audits of thea    prior to their
prvattion.  This update would concentrate on the evaluation of the bank
portfolios to identdfy the non performing assets and the preparation of a financial
estuturig plan to be negotated by the GOBF with their new poteta
shaeholders. Agreement on the terms of rernce of these audits, discssed
during negoatns is a =Mm of nz    =%at  (pnare. 95);
(b)    a Wtu  to p r the conversion of the CCP/CNE into a fiani i
This study would help prepare an act=Pw plan to convert the CCP/CNE hIno an
independent financial instiution operaing wihin the post system. The study
would, in paicular: I) propose ways to segreate the opions and finanial
flows of the CCP/CNE from those of the postal system; () recommend lega
actions to convert the CCP/CNE into a financial instuon which would deposit
its funds in the financial system rather than in the Govenment treasury; and, (ii)
Identify the conditions necessary to ensure that the new instituton will be
financilly viable in the long-erm. The ten  of reference of this study (an
10 were agreed on during appraisal;
(c)    a review by expr layers of the laws relating to bad checks and delinquet
debtors. As recommended by the SIBM study of the financial sector, this review
would identify the amendments to the existing laws necessary to make it a penal
offse to write bad checks or to atteMpt to coceal assets when credtors take
action against delinquent debtors. Ibis review would also analyze the lega
process for bad loan recovery with a view to streamlining it and lesening its cost
wo fnancial institutions. For consistency purposes, this review would be carried
out under the supervision of the Law Revision Committee established in the
context of the ongoing PID to improve the country's overall legal system (par
19); and,
(d)    a feasibility m*  to identify the conditions under which new and viable long-
term instruments for investment f_ing could be created. ITis study would
build on the existing initiatives mentioned already earlier in pam 48, that are
presentiy considered by banks and private investors. It would identify new
instruments for investent financing and help define the appropriate legal and
regulatory framework for their establi_  The study would also povide
guidance to private entrepreneurs or institutions wling to create such
instruments. The tms of reference of the study (an    1.l were agreed on
during appraisal.
70.   According to the implem   on plaming in Awnne?_, the study of the CCP/CNE
should be completed nd agreement on an action plan reached between the GOBF and IDA by
June 1994 (par 96 (b)). The implementtion of the action plan is expected to be completed by
March 1995. Ihe study on financia istument shoudd be completed by March 1994, and the



25
discussion of its reco ion between the GBOF, the BCEAO, IDA and e                                es of
tke private sector completed by June 1994.
71.              7he technical assistance and conutant sevices to be fiaced by the project,
estimated at about 400 man/month, are summarzed In the following table:
TABLE 5
Assistance Financed by the Project
Bldkia   bntadm                                     Odeivs of *e Asssne
1. AW=to  nCM
actindriae do uConuwo MOO ad                    *I  ve th oglaa of the    Step Wdo  for
Dirction G&nEal du D6vlaWppernentel               bnterlon tUSa  ad for iveatm  t pmad
l    (DOD!)                                      (20 an/month.
* Computeriatn of dr oa          (6  /n).
Commlao de Piva*sat  (Cl)                      0 As" in opat  the CP 02 rr).
* Evalut eneprise to be pivatir  (50 n/*r.
2. IobimL am&
Drei  G6aWe du Commme  (DC                     * Pepape puvaztitn of CCIA (2 rn/n.
Drecin dea Ts ts      ad privat metor          *latoulIz th Mppoa i t  MId of CCI&, CDC, nd
* Ratonaze dke X go      of CCU's nd CCs
ln&astuctur  (10 rnlrn.
OCIA Muiat auirprosus                          OStreoWhe CCJs opratlor (24 n/rn).
* 94mprv eftepris opeatio and help cates usw ertepulas
a20m.rn).
3.  SeC_
Diction do TrEm of theo                           Ast in neodating ses of pic anteuis, ban  (12 rn/r.
Mhdiry of Fince and P an  F)                   * Updat of the  po   epots of bank (10 m1n.
BuRa d  ReccpvrerAtdes Cudandes do             C Improe Organt  an proNedue  and                 of
IBRCB)                                          opeSraios  Vrn.
Fnancal Insi us, pdvat    or                   * Sudy eoons  r cftin of intUMnt (6 r/n).
* Prepae cownei of CCP/CNE into a dnancial   io
(6 rn/rn.
* Res law sgovrigbad chckand deliqetdebtor
o.
4. PrQe Maeeme_D (I!l
Psojec Coodion                                  0 Assstne to set up poj     cgsyae
(10 un/n).
' Mno*   Bgh fpbrMor) ofT lOffice
9M,_m ,Jm of T l_ sso



26
C.    Sat  of project preparon
72.   Becauseof the preparion  of the first democrac elecdon of a natoal assembly and of
the ensuig Government reshuffle, project prerion was slow in the initial phe. However,
the new Government swiftly resumed project preparation, In particular, by establishing in
Sember 1992 the Govenent/prvate sector consltative commimsion which participated
actively in the project paration and design. The project praion, which started in
September 1991, was assisted by a Japanese grant of Y 109,4 million (about US $800,000). hs
Grant helped to establish the Privaion Commission by financing the services of an expert
advisor to the Commission and asset evauation of the public enterps  proposed for
prvatation It financed also consultants studies of the institutiondal famework for privae sector
promotio   and of the fnancial sector, In particular, with regards to Its ability to mobilize term
resources for investment financing. In addition, a PPF of US $150,000 fiaced part of the
oprang costs of the Pivaizaion Commission. In February 1993, IDA approved an addion
PPF of US $360,000 to fince project activities that are critical for a timely project efiWctveness
and implem   on.
D.   Project Cost and Flnandng plan
73.          Ite total project cost, contngencies included, is estimated at US$ 9 million, of
which about USS 3.1 mfilion are in local costs (detaied table icin AwnI2). Th project would
be financed by an IDA credit of US$ 7 million and US$ 2 million of Goverment funding.
TABLE 6
Estimated Project Costs and Finacn Pln
(in $ 000s)
Esdmated costs
Assistance to the MICM         2350           820        3170
Institional support component    -           2750        2750
Financial sector component       170          640         810
Project Coordnation             550            170        720
Refund of PPF advance           280           230         510
.440          mu0       104
Total                    3790          5210       9000
IDA                            2170          4830        7000
Government                        620     
Total                    3790          5210        9000



27
F.    ProectIpeetto
74.          Project Coordination and Management.   he govenment agency direty
concerned by each component or sb-component of the project would be resposible for its
implementation. This would, as recommended by the Banks guidelies for technical  c
projects in the Africa Region, enable Burkina Paso's administration to insdtuonaliz the
objectives of the project and ensure the building of a sustnable domestic capacity within the
project institutions. The coordination and overall management of the project will be t
responsibility of the Ministr of Industry, Commerce and Mines who will be assisted by the
Governmentvate Sector Commission de Concerttion established in Septembe 1992. The
Minister has officially delegated the day-to-day project coordination tasks to the head of the
Directeur des Etudes et de la Planification (DEP) of the MICM. During appraisal, a project
implementation planning (An    1  and a table of key project activities and evaluation criteria
(Annex ) were prepared with the project coordinator who would be responsible for:
(a)   ensuring coordination with the heads of other agencies involved in project
implementation in terms of: (i) timely implementation of the measures
detailed in the project implemenion pli   and, WI) appropriateness
of procurement and, accounting procedures;
(b)   assitng the executing agencies in carrying out their tasks; and,
(c)   reng semi-amnally on project implementation progress to the
Minister of Industry, Commerce and Mines, and IDA, seeking their
guidance as necessary and convening their meedngs to review, in
particular, the recommendations of all the studies t be carried out under
the project and the restructuring plans proposed for all the project
instituions.
75.          To help the DEP carry out this project coordination responsibility the credit would
finance: (i) office eqipment and vehicles required to facilitate its work; and, (1) the carrying out,
in coopertin with the Commissihn de Concertion, of a program of information diss n
to the public at large on the reforms undertaken within the MICM to improve the regulaty
environment of private enterprises and on the progress achieved under the proposed project in
strengthening the instiutional environment.
76.          Other responsibilities for project management will lie with:
(a) the PrivathnConmm.iossion- AC) for the implementation of the evaluation and
pritization programs of the commission;
(b)   the Direction Gdn&rale du Commerce -D CM, for the implementi  of the
measures reladng to the GuichetUni  for exteral trade operadons which are
under its responsibility;
(c)   the Direction G&ndrale du  DEveloppement Industriel (DGDfl for the
implementation of those relating to the  uihe iqe des imesssements,



28
(d)   the Direction Gdnerale du Commerce (IDGCQ) for the execution of the stdies to
reorganie the intonal support stuctre comprised of the CCIA, ONAC and
CBC, and for the implementation of its recomedions oce they have been
reviewed and agreed on by the Government and IDA; (the Dhection des
lt Mneas et Rautiers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport
would assist the DGC in the implementtion of the measures concerng CBC);
(e)   the Directigon du Trdsor (DTf of the Ministry of Finance and Plan for the
implementation of the financial sector measures with regad to: (i) the recruitmen
of an expert investment banker to advise on privatization operations, (ii) the
updating of the banks' audits and the training of their staff; (il) the carying out
of the feasibility study on new financial instruments and the implementation; and,
(iv) the follow-up on the revision by the Ministry of Justice of the laws governing
bad loans, bad checks and repossession of collateral under the same arrangements
adopted under the PID for the revision of commercial laws; and,
(t)   the BRCB for carrying out the strengthening of its organizations and procedures.
77.          The head of the departments of the ministies involved in the implementaton of
the project would be the project coordinator's liaison for ensuring that documentation and project
progress reports are provided as necessary. Besides the short-term technical assistace financed
by the project, no incremental civil service position would be created, nor new staff hired, outside
of the concerned ministries. Confirmation of the above arrangements for project management and
implementation which have been discssed upon during appraisa were given during negotiations
(paa. 93 (c)).
78.          MonitorinL evaluation and mid-term review. Each of the executing agencies
mentoned above would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the part of the project under
its control. It would prepare a semi-annual report on the implementation of the part of the project
for which it is responsible. The project coordination would consolidate the semi-anumal reports
into a report on overall project implementation to be submitted semi-annually to the GOBF and
to IDA. The content of this report was discussed and agreed on during negoiations, (pra 93
(d)). To assess the results achieved, the evaluations presented In the reports would use, as a
basis, the project implementation planning and the key project activities and evaluation criteria
table which have also been agreed on during negoiations. The implementation planning for the
whole project period has been detailed for the first calendar year of project Implementon
Thereafter, the project coordination would consolidate the work programs prepared, by each
executing agency, before the ongoing year in an overall work program to be submitted to MIA's
lwpogm no latter dtan the end of November of each year (para. 96 (c)). In order to ensure more
reliable evaluation, each anmuaI work program would include an assessment of results achieved
in the previous year, additional objectives and criteria to be used for evaluation, if warranted, and
a detailed implementation timetable for the next year. It would also include a report on the
execution of the budget for the previous year and projections for the next.
79.          A mid-erm review by the GOBF, Commission dencera   and IDA wfll take
place no later than the end of June 1995, (para. 96 (d)) about two years after project
efctiveness. Tbis review would focus on the overall development impact of the project, as well
as the etent to which the objectives set for each component of the project, are, or are not, likely



29
to be achieved. The mid-term review would be based on the project coordinar semi-annual
reports, the audits of the project accouns and an evaluation, in particular of the consultants and
techncal assstne pefmance, caried out by independent consltants to be fanced by the
project. In the event that some objectives of the project might be in jeopardy, the GOBF and
IDA would Jointy seek and agree on coarctve actions. 'Me mid-term review will result in a
report prepared jointy by the Govereat, with the pardcipadon of the Comssion de
and IDA, on the results achieved at the time of the review and on how the
remainder of the project would be implemented and, if needed, specific corrective measures to
be taken, additonal monitorable objectives and wvaluation criteria. Of pardcular importance will
be the progress made towards the privatization of the support and financial insttions. In order
to determine at mid-term that the project objectives might be met, the following conditions wll
have to be ftlfUled:
(a)   the two one-step windows of the MICM have become flly operational;
(b)   about 20 public enterprises have been privatized or liquidated;
(c)   the CCIA has become a private kody genuinely representng the private sector;
(d)   the decision reached for the future of ONAC and CBC has been implemented;
(e)   the action plan for the restructuring/strengthening of CCIA has been approved by
the GOBF and IDA, and its implementation is well underway;
(f)   the project accounting, auditing and procurement proedue  have been
implemented to IDA's satisfaction; and
(g)   the perfrmance of the consultants and technical assisutce finnced by the
project is .sa ory.
80.          Other criteria to be used at midterm review are detied in Annex 14. During
negotiations, suraces were given by the Government on: (i) the date of the mid-term review;
and, Qi) the procedures to be used, including the recruitmen of independent consultan  to carry
out an evaluation of the project implementation whose report would be submitted to PDA no latter
than a mnth before the mid-em review (para. 96 (e)).
81.          Envirmental    isions. This technical assistance project has no direct
environmental impact. It has, therefore, been categorized C for environenta  purposes.
However, a National Environment Assesment carried out by the GOBF has identified
environmenal hazards due to industrial activity in the two cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo
D.iouasso. IDA envisages to help the Government, after review of this assessment, carry out its
recommendations.
82.          Poect spvis. The first i  years of project Implementation will require
banti  supvision (about 40 staff weeks) because of the number of studies included in the
project and of the critical nature of the privatization program expected to be carried out. In
addition to four supervion missions per year during the first two years, considerable desk work
is expected to review the procurement procedures, contract awards and recommendations of the



30
studies, and to preparm action plans to be dis sed with the GOBF. In addition, a close foilow-
up of the privatizatlon of the financial institutions and public enteprses will be required.  Ihe
supevision plan i (Anne 15), the Iplemention planning and key project  tvies and aciteria
for evaluation, in Annexes 13 and 14, and the SAL and second PFP matrixes would facilitat tie
supervision of the project Resources should also be allocated to the Resident Mission, which has
akteady actively paicipated In the preparadon of the project, to belp monito its Implemention.
Aftr the first two years tre spervision missions a year should be sufficient.
F.     Prourent and DIsbusement
83.            Proemet. The table below summarizes the project elements, their esimated
costs and the proposed methods of procurement:
TABLE 7
Amoun ad Mehod of Ptocusawet
nd % of diabutammU (US $ 000s)
Proje Hemenj  LCP                    LB        Ohr    ToalCt %C OfD
1.   WDS                                      810   1i 810                       100%X
B"ulMuat                       __                    (810)10 ___j (1) _____
2. co,ha_                                         _                               _
2.1 Std"                                             2200 w _2200             100 X
2_ 2 Te_ch"_A_ a_                  _      _          3100       3100          100%
0          3100
23 TaIhgw                        - .                             330         t10o
(130)     (130)
3. iM   i_am
3.1 bcmtesn                      -          -         1750      1750          85 S
OPeR6g8 cosutp                                          (35)         0
32                               - _  3Q0 300                    So0          85X
_      _ __                                         (30   30                  _
3.3 PFrfing                      _        - _         S10        510
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    ~~~~ ~~   ~ ~~(510)  (51 ) _ _ _ _ _
Tota                           _         810       8190       9000
.____________________                 9(10)       (6190)     (700,,
10  AmoAvek i parndse*s are amo aosf.nawced by th Crt
u    prain ca of d prw&Atm cnmls4on bdinde al cm otherd              h riaes, Le. oce rent and
appis; xdttks, mintnawc, raiwon and travd expeiwes; advertn epemes.
J2  Pojea coordinti    ensefor disemnswi  bifonnatio on Ae rafonn unde        to suate
p       mew devlopmew



31
84.          Under the proposed project, procuremen wod primay be for computer, office
equipment and vebicles, ncemnwtal optng Cos of the Prlvatzaton Commission established
under the PPF and of the DEP, and conutnt services which woud be fianced by the credit
on a net of tax bads. Since adequate local represenon of freig  suppliers exis  ad
avasability of after sale      is essential, equipmets (computers and vehicles for about
US $810,000) to be acquied would be procured through limited intern   competiivebidn
(LIB) in accordac with procedures acceptable to IDA. Duaig negotiations, the list of suppliers
to be Invted to bid for these equipme  was agreed on (par. 93 ()). Goods and svices (as
defned under Table 7) needed to opere the Privadzation Commission would be procured
through lod compe  shoppig. Consltans for taining expert advice and sudies which
reesnt the bulk of IDA's flDncing (abot US $5 milion) woud be recnied accordig to
IDA's guidelines for the recruitment of consultants (para. 93 (g)). During negotiation,
agreemt was reached on andad Letter of Invitadon to bid package and cosutats cotat.
Documenton for all cntacts above US$ 100,000 would be subject to prior review by IDA,
while conat below this amout would be subject to an ex-post review by the Association.
85.         In the course of preparation and implemenion of several projec, prcurement
bottlenecks have been identified by IDA as being potentua cuse for seri  delays in project
implementatI   in Burkina Paso. Ihis problem wiUl be addressed hough the procurem  reorm
under the ongoing Pll) project. During appraisal, it was agreed that in the inWim period all
proem ent under the proposed proJect would be exempted from the procedures applicable to
poraem    funded by Goveroment resourc. During negotiations, the Governent confirmed
Is agr_eem  of this disposition (pa. 92 (b)).
86.                . The proceeds of ihe credit would be dibursed against 100% of the cots,
et of taxes and duties, of equpment, goo  and consutan  services  d agaInt 85% of the
expenditures for operatg  cos  ad omunications.  Ile project will refinance, upon
effectivene, the PPF advance. The project coordinatr would be responible for all the
dibsements made under the project. The disbursemens would be fully doumented except
for the payment of contcs of less ta US$ 20,000 equivalent, which would be made ainst
cfied S _t of Expdiurm (SOMs). Docments for withdrawas under SOEs would be
retaied by the Project coorination at the DEP and made available for the independent auditors
and for review by IDA dudng superviso missions.
87.          TheDA creditis expected to be ds ed over a period of four years or 48
months after project effectiveness acoUrding to the dibusment schedtule in A=  16. Although
disbursementprofiles for technical assistace projects in the Africa Region is, on average, about
84 months, a shorter Impleton period is foresee for thi project because: (1) some
measures bave already been    ated under the SAL (one step windows, prvzation and
establishmen of BRCB); (i) the project preaation has already identified the problems of the
insttutions to be resucued and the proposed project will concentrate on prepaing and
implementng restrct  plans; and, (iii) the Government and the private sector have displayed
a genuine comitment to the project.



32
88.          To faclitate disbusements one specW account of CFAF 100 million (or about
US $400,000 equivalent) to be admsered by the DEP, would be open by the GOBF In a
commercial bank acceptle to IDA to finace the expenditures of the project. IDA would make
the ini  depost in the specia accounts upon project effeCtiveness. Replenim    reque
wowld be accompanied by proof of eligible oxpenditure acceptable to IDA, and by up-to-date
bank statements and rewiliation of the concerned specal accounts.
G.    Accotmdng and Audt;zg
89.          The Ministry of Industry, Commerwe and Mines would be responsible for
ensuring that account for all expenditures made under the project arsubmitted t it on a regular
basis by the DEP to which it has delegated the project coordination. The project accoun  will
be maintined by the DEP In accordance with intenationally accwpted standards and practoes
satisfactory to IDA. Ihe DEP would establish proper accounting of the project with the
assstance of an experienced accounting firm, to be financed by the project, whose terms of
reference have been agreed on during negotations (para. 93 (b)). The implementaion of this
measure is a conditon o effectveness (para. 94 (d)). lhe projects accounts,including the aud
of the SOBs and of the special accounts, wowd be audited mrnudal by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA no latter than six mongs aft
the closing of the fiscal year in Burkina Faso. The audi0ts' report would include a staeime
on the adequacy or otherwise of the accownting procedures and internal controls and of the
reliability of the SOEs and related docu ion as a basis for credit disburement and
compliance with fcial covenants. The recruitment, on the basis of a short-list agre on
duri negotiations, of an auding firm for the four year period of imple_mtation is a ImQI
of prjeot eWfenes }r(pan. 94 (e)).
H,   Project Benits and Risks
90.          Benefits. The pmposed project will help the private sector respond to the political
and economic transition towards democracy and liberaization that is underway. It will
complement the policy and reguatory reform as well as the Government divesitre process
presertay undertaken, in the context of a SAL and other Bank-supported sectoral projects. It
would help implement the Government Sategy  iming at limiting its role in creating an
environment conducive to the development of the private iniiative in the economy while
trnsferAing to the private sector a restructured and strengtened institutional support structure
whose services are critical to private entrepreneurs. The specific benfits from the project would
consist of: (i) improved adminisive services, by streamlining procedures eaing to external
trade and to the establishment of new enterprises; (ii) the establishment of an efficient and private
insttional support structure where CCTA would play a central role in channeling and
cordinaing all local and foreign assistance available to private entreprneurs; and, (ii) the
deepening of financial Intermediation, particularly thrwgh aiding the banms that have been
privaized as well as private investors, to create financial istruments more adapted to investment
financing. Finally, by concentrating on institutional building, the project would contribute to



33
create, In the medluim m, the local capacity which would ensure a susWainable development of
the pivate sector.
91.          Rb. The success of the project is conditoned by the prrss acieved In
implementng the privaiton of public entrprises and financW instons. A set back in this
ea would discourage the private sector and result in increased difficulty in the impl
of the measum  contaied in this project. Thi risk is, however, mitigated by the Govenment
commmt reated in the second PFP being preseny negodated with the Bank and the IFW
to support the development of the private sector.  There is also a ri  that the
restructurilng/privatzation process eected to take place during the project might lag and pove
difficult to implement Adequate supervision, mostly at the onset of the project, along wit the
delivery of effetive technical assice envsaged, in the prject will be crucial in alleviatig this
hazard.  With regard to the private sector, the business commuiy might prove unable or
unwmilling, sinco no investment financing is proposed, to play a significant role in taking charge
of the Instittonad system supporting private entrepreneurs. However, contacts taken durig
project preparaton with representatives of the private sector resulted in the establishment of the
Govnmentprivate sector Commisio de Co&nckn comprised mostly of highly respectd
representives of the business community.  Ihis commission actively participated in the
preparation of dte project and its expected contribution in overseeing the project implemeon
and evaluation should sustain the interest of the private sector in the project.
L     A     m        reached and recommendation
92.          mhe following were conditions of negotiato:
(a)   the issuance of an Aenld min      enarging the role of the Guichet UAW
lWvseM9UM      to the handling of all procedures required to establish new
(pam 60); and,
(b)    Goverment commiment to exempt all goods and services to be financed by the
project from government prcurement procedures (para. 85).
93.          Durig MaWag=, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)   the Government Policy Letter spelling out a program for strgthening finacial
and support istiions (parm. 57);
Ob)   the tms of reference for the assista to the two one-step-windows (pam 60);
(c)   the arrgements for project coordination (par. 77);
(d)   the content of the project implemetation reports to be submitted bi-annually to
IDA (pam 78);



34
(e)   the conions of the mid-term nviw (pra  80);
(I)    a list of internatonal f    tob be Nd to bid on    _  (par 84);
(g)   standard lette of nvitaton package contracts for the selecdon of consutants
(par  84); and,
(h)   the tem   of rerence for the establishment of the project acunting system
(ar.. 89);
94.          Ihe gaditions for prject ffectivenes are:
(a)   the elections by private enepeurs of the members of the CCIA executive
bodies (pan. 63 (a));
0b)   the issuance of invions to bid for the reo      of the struture cmprised
of CCIA, CBC and ONAC (para 63 (b))O
(c)   the adopon by the Government of appprate leslon effectely conferring
to the BKCB the collection privieges of the Governmn  tax services (ara. 68);
(d)   the establishment of the project aunting system (ma  89); and
(e)   the recruiment of an independent auditor for the project accouts (pa. 89).
95. The agreement on the terms of reference for the updatig of the bank audits and the
preaation of financial restruc$t plans is a condition of
96.          The following ared  covenants:
(a)   the official publication no later than Aprl 30, 1994, of the list of all enterprises
to be privadzed (pan 61);
(b) the submissionto MDA's pprovI. no later than lune 30. 1994, of acdon plans
for the retu ing of CCIA, the ratonalization of CCIA's and CBC's
sing facilities and for the conversion of CCP/CNE into a financial
institution (paras. 64 and 70);
(c)   the submission to IDA by the project euation, no later      November 30 of
each year, of the work programs of the followiqg ye  (para. 78);
(d)   the caryi out of a mid-trm review no later th  Jun 30, 1995, (para. 79);
and,



35
(e)   the smnis3on to DA of an independent consultant report on the evaluation of
progess achieved in project implementon no latr      May 30, 1995, (para.
80).
97.          Cindtions of Aikunm§n4 for the technical assstn  to private enrpees
(para. 66) would be IDA's apprval, upon the completion of CCUs r,  of the
arrangements between CCIA and privat eepreneurs, including the matching grnmt formda,
for the financing of technical assitace to private enltreprenus with the projecs proceeds.
98.              B       .  Subject to the above terms, the proposed project is suitable
for a credit to Burkina Faso in the amount of US$ 7 million equivalent, on stadard IDA terms.



*-3-                             ANNEEI
pop.I oft
SIJKI  FASO
PRIVAlE SEO  ASSTANCE PROJECr
UST OF PUSIJC O    R        (1)
(flmnh guresn CA ml
8rTATE
NAME         LEGAL         ACInVY        CAPITAL HOWDINOS  SAIEB    NEr    EMPLOYEES
STATUS                                 IN S            PROFITS
AQRO IN8mm
1.  AVANA
S.                  SR         Flaw                439.01tS _.M              210.00         100
4. 8091JCO          8EM    8u .oi--                                847.00   246.0          2470
5. CNA            -SE_ __v_ _                                                  3VA0I
G. SOFTEX         --                               4.          122A81        19tS           t
7. FASO FANI                                     51.0        02     416                    l8e
8.  MA                                                       471              14             X
9. COFA                                            217.0     42%1  saw
10. sN4                     shoes                  200.0   1tOf   .10W.00  (162.*            70
11. CNEA             SE     AbW   eF               97m0      1      460.00    4800'         112
12 Sam           W___       Lo                     419.0      2     141.00      .            60
19. CIMAT                                         1,800_.0 _1___
14. FA_OPLA______      W    ___- __1.01                      91%             _1__00
16. SOBIM   8BJ HouNIMw~                           I    ta. OOff  ( 14A0.0
is. 8M_ _____h                                      40.01                    2t
17. 80NAU            9M     P __             _    400 -  0.01  Wst6n                         25
1a. soNAcAs          Sim- Toms                         I  
19. 80AL             am__k_I.0                               691    18t.00    48.00          1
2a. SSCPMA                  ___________            1 I.            15600j--5O.11
21. 81C OMP. Mff.]=l     SE    OWN                 11.00             97500    6100         1E4t
29. MAEOM                                          1000           ____   ___________
_   _  _      _  _                                   0.N1         o      ^  1 4 h  _ _       2t
CO MMERCEEMTRMY18N-
29. euicN-w3    -E-d                               2s4a       1Y   2sao    sO0
24. 80 P              E         Fue dbkbu5o       1.a.       100s  7sn        4&,ao- O-      12
25. FABO YAAR        8M     Gwner  e_nrw          1".0        s89  20,11eo {49.0            43
26. OFNACER    8 E       I    h m~-         e     l<- s72s0  IO 1o 70 i2%O Sbf
W. _o                       Mknaddd   4             1.700115.00 11T4w I  Di I5
28. SO1HAV           OEM    PheoWu_ w40.                             975f.00    el           uo2
[20 MACEH             8I        FnX ar Wvsobbs      iKo      10Q 09 
190 FlBJiEMA      |   E      NI  nd    _       1    90n0    I09 I                          _29
3191 FEED LOT     Inf 8E I        n*d AmlGM    IO% eBS= 1a- n
32 SiflEX FAXO              ye!g MGM                           MI _  50et    ta   5; .00   L4M
{9& FLa   F~               -E tffmNIQ 21fi  ;-l~                                        I



-37t -                               ANNEXE I
SURFKNA fASO
PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROJECT
U8T OF PUBWC EEPRISE (1)
rIa=MI Igures In CPA mElon)
.1.. I STATEI
NAME         L LEGAL        ACTIIT         CAPITAL HOLDIN     SALES    NEr    EMPLOYEES
STATUS                                   I %                      I    -PROFI
_4.            _             _EL  PA                           1      1  9 .0   148.  *
3  ONP        r      EPIC  -PC"                     2399.0     100%  22L2.0      7.00'
sr. ONAn3         I'E IC   _e etw
39A         ll.1  S        t0 U                        80             1,7.0    114.0D|  
390.AR eU      N     8E                                5.0      6%        D   -s-o 8
4D. FM_   EPlO                 _                _    __   In tOO                 26.00 2G2 DD
41. SFCB                    I __ __ __              ___        10          _X
42. 8T_ hWhE_-18.51%813     39W     D                               ---40
;W       4-0 -- - - - - -7 I- X0.Wl9CI.- _
44. SOMIOOB                 1                       1000.01              ---1  (127.00)        ---
OM                  6Ef                              850.0    1%   ___        -___- -        -___
47. UMO            --N        ____ _ _100%                                   0__   ___
4  iL 10ffBMPOt890 -   ___
49. HILNDEPNA hoC bld                                               1  10lI_780SO.-5
W__. HOTEL M__       _       Hobld __             1 1,600.0     99%    710.001 _o 9.0           134
Si.                    CEI Da       b ciooe4^ 184.0            100%L 894.00       2.00          62
62._FASIO TOWNR8     S       Ttwtl                    82.0      -8%       am02~a
5ONAC IB  - _ 8EM-- L_Mo h_lc_                       350.0      52%   867.0      89.00 SO.00-_-_
54. ZAMA PS           SE    A                        100.0     100     663.00      181           19
tS5. 0N_VES E                                       1mss  218.0  100%    631.00    12.00   ___
OS. ONPF       -     EPIC   w1o408.01    100%                           1497   (14.00)    ___
l7. AW               EPIC   Vann VW; Dvown            O.C      I0f      1,125       7n         ---
GIL 80GEMAB           8EM    Mwkel    _              15.       90ff      .4                    ---
6D. C8PPA ____on                                      2150.0   300%    2-4 44__              ___
subwAmem600.0              1    16.471     114   ____
81. CCVA             EPIC                                       00X C%    ...O    ---__    _
62. C8CA             EPIC               _     _      45o       10% 0.00   180.00                 S0
68. COA              EPK    Chrof Conoiiii           8S1.2     100%    666.00   65.00         -5
64 LNBTP            _b____                           100.0     10tS   610.00    91.00'          1M
Rom buld                  00       0%1M.0          14 
TOTAL                                                            5k064                  9
-t)   SUC. UnAc   1WA M h km  boom pdeUmm d
* ~~ _Ulimo.ilSiasmae  ,m uhm~ia .saSiSaslb(a..d1W



38
BURA YAM                         AM    2
Page 1 of 2
ERUM   SEC=O   ASSISADCE ERQJEC
UVAlaMQM
Et od  t 
In 1993                               1994 199
(Invitations to Bid Issued)
1. MACEHOU
1. FASO TOURS                          2. SOPAL
2. CNA                                 3. CITEC
3. SIPA                                4. SONACEB*
4. SONA     NARM                       5. SONACOR
4. SONAR                               6. SOSUCO
5. SONF A                              7. SOFEX 
6. FLEX PASO                           8. SNIB *
7. GUB                                9. BURKINA SHELL 
8. FASOPLAST                          10. FASO FANI
9. ZAMA PUBUCITh                      11. SOBEMA *
10. ONAVEr                             12. SONACAB*
11. SOCOmIB                            13. SAVANA *
12. CIMAT                              14. PASO YAAR
13. F       COMOB                      15. SOFIVAR
14. CNEA                               16. AMR BURKINA
15. FRICM                              17. NAGANAGANI
18. RNTC X9
19. SOREMIB
20. SOMICOB
21. CMK (Mines do Kier*
22. SMG
And EPICs that have become companies under
normal commu  law (see page 2)
to be ewluated In 1993
ode, wff be ewlawd In
1994 and dwveee



39
Pae         2
BUKIA FASO
PIUVATE SI t    ASSISIANCE-MJC
Etabfissements Publcs b Caractbre Indutuel et Co mMrda l (EPSb
L YJTNI UNDERt REVIEW BY CONBSULANT
I H6tel Inddpendance
2 Imprimerie Nationae du Burklna (INB)
3 Labortoire National du Biment et des Travaux Publics (LNBTP)
4 Laboratoire des Msdicaments du Paso (MEDIFA)
S Office National des Barrages et des Amn    ts Hydro
agricoles (ONBAH)
6 Loterie Nationale du Burkina (LONAB)
7 Office National des T6l6communications (ONATEL)
8 Office National de I'Eau et de l'AssI" ns n (ONEA)
9 Socists Nationale d'ElectrictE du Burkina (SONABEL)
10 Centre National de Traitement de IlInformatique (CENATRIN)
1 IOffice National des Postes (ONP)
12 Office National des Puits t Forages (ONPF)
H. TO BE REVIEWED IN 1993 AND 1994
1 Office National d'Am6nagement de le Vallee de la Volta (AVV)
2 Bureau des Mines et de la Gsologie du Burkina (BUMGEB)
3 Caisne Autonome d'Investissoment
4 Casse Autonome de Retrite des Fonctionnaires (CARFO)
5 Centre de Contr6le de Vaiicules Automobiles (CCVA)
6 Caisse OOnErade de P&6quation (CGP)
7 Caisse Nationale de S6curite Sociale (CNSS)
8 Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produlb Agricoles
(CSPPA)
9 Office National des C&Uales (OFNACER)
10 Office General des Projets Tambao
11 REgie Nationale de Transport X9
12 Conseil Burkinab des Chargours (CBC)
13. Chambre de Commerce de l'Industrie et de 'Artisanat (CCIA)
EPiCS to be revIewed to d _en  if da  ahodud be coenvrd bo EPAs or bkw ceranie wider
8014d law.



*                                                           - a
% ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  SI
.. ~ ~     ~     .)     ~     . 
b.  ei *I   t |            n| | e |         
o~~~~~~o
a'111  ,                                  X             0



41
ANNEX 4
1AMS  FAS
P2IVATE RECI) LM    ~    AC  PRoJECT
PRIVATE CONSILTING PERM
l!RoONS                                  ~~~~~~~PIRVATR
Ardhiects                                                         14
12
Tpogahy                                                            3
Sub-total I                                                    i
Accuting                                                          30
Computer                                                          19
Management and Matedng                                            25
Co tmunicatIon                                                    19
Sub-to  2                                                     93
Lawyers                                                           19
Sub-tota3 3
Ceaing, secrt                                                     14
Factorg                                                            3
Seial, yreoaphy                                                    4
Recru_ -i                                                          1
Oth                                                                I
Sub-totl 4 
GRAND TOTAL
Not.: About 30 profsIon  archtect in tot activ i Bukina Paso
-d



_ wu~~~e n -rEq B0
FM "     rMA       U
aqu  MOnds              Paso-EBAAA            F       _anama dee                                                       U                    4S8 Mions CFAP
FmjatslForanation               1992                 30 U#S           RTV                     d           o algn
___   _  B3W                                                                                          Pn  1992IM
SVID                  ep%W      cet                   198t                                  acts g&&zt  de   325 =lm  CPA? es
De      Nm (CANADA)                                                                                   .OWAm                                OV.*    1991
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.016 prE
ON.G.                   pMODIA                Cr*t                                                  80 CPAP          Mwo4fttiw              258 niiom   CPAp
__ _   __      _ __        _ __            _________                                                                                     1991
CCCE                    AMP                   CrEdt                                                         *        ME                     19 Projels
(CRMC.                                                                                                                          tSO _nd0ms CPAP
P.A.C.                  BAME                  Etde et Montage des             1991                 - S CPA?          PME et Miro-           6 dosse
ANCE)                             dossicn                       Extensbo              phuse pio         encis                   34 mIion CFAP
PI4UD -0,66 $          Acitivs GO&aria de  496 es SM i
PIND                    F.AA.   nam           Crddit                                         G.B.P. = 300 CPAP       rewus                  22 mins CPAP
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                 no w n*re~~~~~~~ 1_9 9 1  
_a      Mondiale        Burau dappoui I a     Aido I ka ptisan                1992                                            dta           Dnaag
I~~~PW*    -I
USAID                   CCIA                  FormtIon                        1992                  150.000 S        PME                    D&maag
(USA)                 ,                ,                                           ,
ACDI                    CAPBO                 Ed + AssIc                      1992                   3 CS            PME                    Ddazmg
(CANADA)                          Techque                                                                Moder_
P.A.C.                  CCIA                  Fmnation Op *aus                1992                  SO CPAP                                 A r tud
_PANCE)                           Tza_spon                                                                                      _
PNUD                    Pto*      Mo b mn     Asitce Th nIqu                  1992                  Ad                                      A     r M uds
PNUD                    ONUDI                 EtudeTehniqw                    1992                   1.S $           PM3                    A Muds
PNUD                    CCIA                  pormatIon                       1992                                                          A  1'&d.
_ we--..S  iI_I.. -.-11 .1



43_-                           ANNEX  6
Page 1 of 8
Ct--p.  4 10 FEV. 1
,l$3-029,
A
Monsieur le Pr6sident de la Banque Mondiale
1818 H STREET NW WASHINGTON DC 20433
U. S. A.
Objet: Declaration de poltique
de renforcement des Insti-
tutions Financi6res et des
Institutions dAppul au
Secteur Priv6.
Monsieur le Pr6sident,
Dans le cadre de son Programme d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS) mis en oeuvre en
1990, le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso a retenu parmi les 6l6ments de sa strategle pour
lever les obstacles a la croissance 6conomlque & long terne du pays, de favodiser Is
d6veloppement du secteur priv6 afin qu'il puisse jouer un r8le moteur dans 11conomle. II a,
en cons6quence, d6fini un programme d'action pour aider le secteur prIve & assumer cette
mission. Ce programme comporte quatre volets majeurs: la mise en place d'un
environnement Incitatif au d6veloppement de l'iniative privee et la privatisation des
entreprises publiques, la restructuration du systeme bancaire, la reforma de I'administration
pour lui permettre de r6pondre de maniere plus efficiente aux besoins de ce secteur et ie
rsnforcement des Insttutions d'appul A son d6veloppement. Les trols premiers volets de ce
programme ont commenc6 & &tre mis en oeuvre avec I'assistance de la Banque Mondiale
1.



Page 2 of 8
- 44 -
dans le cadre du PAS et du Projet de D6veloppement Institutlonnel (PDI). Le demier volet qui
conceme les institutions d'appul sera, avec la continuation de la restructuration des banques
et son 6largissement aux institutions financderes non-bancaires, I'objet principal du projet pour
lequel le Gouvemement d6sire recevoir l'assistance de la Banque Mondlale.
1/ - Objectifs et Strat6gles du Projet
Le Gouvemement du Burkina Faso est d'avis que to secteur priv6 dolt Atre amen6 A
prendre progressivement en charge son propre developpement. C'est A dire qu'a terme I doit
pouvoir foumir aux entrepreneurs priv6s l'assistance financiere et technique dont lls ont besoin
pour rendre leurs entreprises plus performantes et pour favoriser le d6veloppement de
nouveaux investissements. C'est pourquol le but ultime que le Gouvemement attache au plan
de d6veloppement du systeme dcappui au secteur prlv6 est de mettre A la disposition de ce
secteur les moyens qui lul permettront d'atteindre cet objectif. Pour cola, I! d6sire entreprendre
une restructuration des institutions d'appui existantes en vue de:
- r6acffecter A l'Etat los fonctions a caractere administratif ou de service public et de
manlbre progressive les autres fonctions au secteur priv6;
- rendre cos institutions pleinement repr6sentatives du secteur priv6.
11 envisage aussi d'encourager la cr6ation de m6canismes susceptibles de favorser
le developpement des investissements pfiv6s. Le Gouvemement souhalte donc financer des
missions temporaires d'experts nationaux et 6trangers pour alder A preparer et mettre en
oeuvre, de concert avec les repr6sentants du secteur prive, des plans permettant d'atteindre
ces objectifs.-
Le Gouvemement souhalte mettre en place un systeme d'appui au secteur priv6
constitue d'institutions repr6sentafives du secteur priv6 capables de devenir, A terme,
techniquement et financierement auto-suffisantes. Ce systeme devrait etre bWti, pour des
raisons de coOt et d'utillsation efficace des moyens mat6riels et humains, d'abord A partir de
la restructuration d'institutions existantes (la possibilit d'encourager la cr6atlon ulterieure
./.



Page 3 of 8
- 45 -
d'autres Institutions, n'6tant, A prior pas 6cart6e). L'assistance d'experts nationaux et
Intemationaux quo le Gouvemement est dispos6 A financer avec les moyens du projet, pour
lequet it sollcite I'appui de la Banque Mondiale, devra r6pondre aux critbres qu'il s'est fix6 en
accord avec les bailleurs de fonds.
Elle devra 6tre temporalre et ses r6sultats devront Otre 6valu6s. Cela Implique pour
ces institutions que dans un d6lai ralsonnable: cette assistance aboutisse a la mise en place
de systemes de gesgon adequats et a la formaton de leur personnel afin qu'lls soient a meme
de ma?triser ces syst6mes; et, des m6canismes sotent mis en oeuvre pour qu'elles deviennent
flnanci6rement independantes. Cela implique aussi qu'elle devra donner lieur & des
6valuattons p6riodiques afin de s'assurer qu'elle sert convenablement lobjet pour lequel elle
a 6t6 accord6e.
Le Gouvemement souhaite aussi assainir les institutions financieres du pays afin de
restaurer un climat sain d'intermrdiation financiere qui favoriseralt le financement des
-nvestissements priv6s. A cette fin il envisage de confinuer et d'achever la restructuration des
banques et leur privatisation. 11 envisage 6galement d'avaluer les institutions financieres non-
bancaires afin d'identitier les mesures a prendre, les cas 6ch6ant, pour renforcer leur situation
financiere et leur gestion.
2/- Le Programme d'Action .
Afin de pouvoir d6finir un plan d'aotion en vue de mettre en oeuvre la strat6gie et
d'atteindre les objectifs mentionn6s prec6demment, le Gouvemement a commissionn6 une
revue des deux prTncipaux syst&mes d'appul a 1'entreprise prive : le systbme d'appul
institutionnel quT doit lul apporter conseil, assistance et formation pour d6velopper ses
op6ratlions et son expansion et les institutions financieres quT doivent I'aider a financer ses
activit6s et ses investissements. C'est sur la base des conclusions et recommandations de
ces deux etudes qui ont 6t6 pr6sentees, avec la participation de la Banque Mondiale, en Juin
1992 aux repr6sentants des op6rateurs priv6s nationaux que le Gouvemement a 6eabor6 un
programme d'action. Depuls, dans le souci d'assurer le succes de co programmc, il a pris
t'lnitiaflve dy assocder largement le secteur priv6. Pour cela, it a cr66 en septembre 1992, une
./.



Page 4 of 8
- 46 -
Commission de Concertat}on Etat-priv6s pjac6e auprAs du Min ire do rindustrie. du
Commerce et des Mines obi les repr6sentants du secteur prIvO sont major!taires pour suivre
la preparation, rexcuton et l'6vaiuafon p6rlodique de ce progmmme.
2.1 J - Los Insttutlons d'Appul.
Trols Instlttions devralent jouer un r8le majeur dans les op6rations et 1s
d6veloppement du secteur pridv: la Chambre de Commerce, d'industrie et d'Artisanat (CCIA)
dont le but est de foumir aux entrepreneurs priv6s l'assistance et l'encadrement dont ls ont
besoin et d'assurer la d6fense do fours lnt4rOts; I'Office National du Commerce Ext6rdeur
(ONAC) charg; de promouvoir fours exportations; et le Conseil Buridnabe des Chargeurs
(CBC) dont le r68e est primordial pour assurer la maitrlse des conditions et    des ooO cde
trasport qui jouent un r6le critique dans i'econombe du pays. Lltude mentionnee
prc6demment a r6v6I6 que lours missions. structures et statuts devralent Otre red6finis pour
tenir compte de la nouveUe pol tque liblraisatlon Oconomique du pays et, pour certaines
comme le CBC, de rbvolution de l'environnoment Intemational dans le domaine ob elles
opbrent. Le Gouvemement s'est donc fx6 comme tAche dentreprendre, conforn6ment A la
sitatle mentlonn6e plus haut, les actions n6cessalres pour restruoturor ces Insituons afin
do mettre A la disposition du secteur priv6 un appul institutionnel capable de I'accompagner
dans son d6veloppemont
Los objectfis de cette tAche ont larement 6t% expos6s aux reprbsentants du secteur
prlv6 Burkinabe. Ils consistent A revolr les fonctions de ces institutions pour restituer & I'Etat
les miWsons AL caracte administratm qu'elles assument actuellement et transf6rer,
progresslvernent au secteur piv6 ceUes qui correspondent A des services directs aux
op6rateurs 6conomiques. Les prestations de ces Institutions qui ont un caractere de service
public pourralent tre soit reprises par I'Etat soft sous-traitMes par celul-cl avec ces institutions
restructur6es dans des conditdons A d6finir avec eofes. Pour cela le Gouvemement entend
rO6valuer ces institutions et pr6parer des plans de restructuratlon repondant A ces objectits.
Coel implique drabord que la COCIA rtrouve son statit dorganisme consulaire. Ensuite
qu'elle regolve de I'assistance pour pouvoir pouer son r8le d'interprbte du secteur priv6 aupres
J.



Page 5 of 8
- 47 -
du Couvernement, de catalyseur des aides au secteur priv6 qui sont disponibles et de
formation d'assistance & 1'entrepreneur privA. Enfin les missions du C0C et de r'ONAC
devraient Otre revues dans te mOme esprit.
Afin de progresser dans la voie de l'instauratfon d'un cadre inditatif au d6veloppement
du secteur prive, le Gouvernement envisage de simplifier les proc6dures administratives
requises pour creer de nouvelles entreprises ou transformer cellos qui existent. A cot effet,
il a mis en place deux gulchets uniques : l'un pour lIex6cutlon des formaiites pour [es
investissements et I'autre pour celles relatives aux importations. Le Gouvemement se propose
maintenant de renforcer teurs moyens d'action par une assistance ad6quate.
Le Ministere de li'Industrie, du Commerce et des Mines (MICM) a dccd6 d'adapter son
organisation aux changements intervenus ou a Tntervenir dans ses fonctions du fait des
changements d'orientation 6conomique du pays. 11 a aussi decid6 de se doter d'outils de
gestlon qui lul permettront de suivre et d'analyser efficacement les performances de l'industrie
et du commerce et de pr6parer les. mesures incitatives appropri6es a teur d6veloppement. A
cette fin U a requLs i'assistance du PNUD pour conduire un audit instutuonnel. 11 souhaite
aussi que dans.lt .cadre.du projet de. d6veloppement des.institutions financieres et d'appui au
secteur priv6 une 6tude solt:confide a: des consultants afin de d6finir les Instruments les plus
adaptes au suivi et a la prOvision de l'activitt 6conomique dans les domaines de l'industrie
et du commerce.
2.2/- Les Institutions Financlrees
Les institutions financderes du Buricna Faso comprennent les banques et des
institutton3 non-bancalres quo sont les 6tabiissements financiers, les compagnies d'assurance
et les instituftons d'6pargne contractuelle. Dans ce domaine le Gouvemement s'est donn6
comme objectifs: d'assainir les institutions qui ont des difficult6s et d'ouvrir leur capital a la
participation majoritaire du privb national et etranger; de les aider A se doter de moyens de
gestion adaptbs A leurs objectifs, et, de prendre les mesures necessaires a arneliorer les
onditions de recouvrement de leurs cr6ances.
.A.



Page 6 of 8
- 48 -
Depuis r'adoption du programme d'ajustement structural appuye par les bailleurs de
fonds, en particuller par la Banque Mondiale, le Gouvemement a entrepris d'assainlr et de
privatser le systeme bancaire.
En 1991, des mesures financleres Importantes ont ete prises pour restructurer les
bilans des banques qul avalent accumuls des actifs improductifs menagant leur 6quillbre
financier. Le Gouvemement a aussi entrepris la recherche d'invesftssements prlv6s pour
r6duire sa propre participation dans leur capital a un maximum de 25 %. Les actions de
privatisation se sont av6r6es difficiles a r6aliser dans les d6lals pr6vus, mals le Gouvemement
entend poursuivre ses efforts afin d'achever la privatisatlon su systbme bancalre comme it s'y
6tait engag6 dans le cadre du PAS.
Tout en poursuivant l'objectif mentionne pr6c6dernment, le Gouvemement a d6cid6
do faire proc6der A une 6valuation pr6cise de la faibiesse de la situation financibre des
banques et 6tablissements financiers afin de pouvoir y rem6dier convenablement Pour cela,
I'Mvaluation de leur situation financiere qui a ete faite par la CommissOn Bancalre de l'UMOA
est en train d'etre revue par des consultants de la Banque Mondale pour d6terminer si des
audits compl6mentaires sont n6cessaires. Au moment de leur privatisation et apres
n6gociations avec leurs nouveaux actionnaires, des plans de restructuration financiere seront
ensulte 6labor6s pour chaque banque et 6tablissement financier ob l'Etat est majoritaire. Ces
plans ne seront mis en oeuvre, cependant, qu'aprbs accord de la Banque Mondiale. Les
banques et 6tablissements financiers qul n'auront pu etre privatis6s et dont la viabiMlte
financibre n'est pas assur6e seront liquid6s.
Afin de les pr6parer & Otre 6ligibles dans le futur aux lignes de credit que la Banque
Mondiale pourrait mettre & teur dispositon, les banques et 6tabilssements financiers qui le
ddsirent seront soumis a un audit lnstitutonnel afin de d6ceier leurs 6ventuelles faibtesses de
gestion. Ces Tnstitutions pourront ensuite b6n6ficier d'une assistance de la Banque Mondiale
pour former leur personnel et se doter de procedures de gestion adequates.
Les institutions d'6pargne contractuelle et les Instftutions financibres non bancaires
seront aussi rentorcbes. Les premieres qui sont la Caisse Nationale de S6curit Sociale et
.1.



Page 7 of 8
- 49 -
la Caisse de Retralte (CARFO) feront l'objet, comme cela a ft6 convenu dans le PAS,
d'6tudes actuarielles afin d'identtfter les mesures aptes a assumer lour sant6 financl6re & long
terme.
Les compagnies d'assurance, seront elles soumises aux dispositions du r6cent tralt6
sur l'int6gration du march6 des assurances au sein de la zone Franc.
Dans le cadre du PAS, le Gouvernement s'6talt engag6 A assainir et restructurer les
Cheques Postaux et la Catsse Nationale d'Epargne (CCP/CNE) qui constituent un reseau
Indispensable & la collects de la petite bpargne. La restructuration envisag6e dewait etre
bas6e sur les principes suivants d'une d6connexion des ifux des CCP/CNE de ceux du
Tr6sor; et; de la s6parafton de leurs flux financiers de ceux de l'Office National des Postes
dont i:s font partie a t'heure actuelle afin d'viter que les CCP/CNE ne financent l'activit6
postale. Une premi&re evaluation des flux financiers des CCP/CNE a 6t6 faite. Un audit
complet de leur situation financiere sera entrepris incessarnment. La restructuratfon des
CCP/CNE pose cependant un probl&me, qui est maintenant d6battu & r6chelle intematfonale,
dO au fait qu'ils ont au d6part 0t6 congus uniquement comme Instrument de collecte de
l'6pargne et non comme Institution ffnanclere.
Le Gouvemement a donc d6cide de faire entreprendre une 6tude de restructuration
des CCP/CNE en vue do les transformer, solon les prlncipes mentionn6s prdc6demment, en
une instftution financiere, qui au sein de l'ONP, continuera A mobiliser la petite 6pargne et
pourrait, dans des conditions A pr6ciser, faire du cr6dlt a ses d6posants. Cette 6tude
examinera aussi les demiers d6veloppements sur le plan Intemational en matifre de statuts
et rOle des reseaux COP/CNE. Elie fera, en tenant compte de la reglementation de l'UMOA,
les recommandations eventuelles a mettre en oeuvre pour que les CCPICNE du Burdna Faso
s'adaptent A l'evolution d'insfflutions similaires dans le monde.
Pour garantir la performance future des institutions financieres qui accordent des
cr6dits au secteur priv6, le Gouvemement a decid6 de prendre les mesures n6cessalres pour
eliminer les obstacles reglementaires qu'elles peuvent rencontrer dans le recouvrement de
teurs creances. Ces mesures visent A sanctionner les d6biteurs r6calcitrants.
..



Page 8 of 8
- 50 -
Elles vont consister on un renforcement de la loi sur les impay4s bancaires et tes ch&ques
sans provisions et l'incorporation dans lo code penal de sanctons & I'gard de ceux qul
tenteralent de soustraire feurs aetifs aux poursultes de teurs cr6anclers.
Le Gouvemement a d6cid6 de les faire pr6parer et mettre en oeuvre par lo Comlt
Directeur pr6vu A cet effet dans le projet de d6veloppement Insttionnel. Les modiflca,ons
envisagees devront etre conformes aux dispositions r6glementaires en vigueur dans l'UMOA
et, dans la mesure ou elles se concr6tisent dans un delai compatible avec l'urgence do
resoudre ce probl6me, aux orientations des projets communautaires pr6sentement A I'tude.
Enfin. en vue d'acc6l6rer le recouvrement des cr6ances cdbes au BRCB dans le
cadre de l'assainissement des banques, le Gouvemement a d6cide de doter celul-di de
moyens n6cessaires. 11 lul a d6j& donne les prlvileges du Tr6sor en matlAre de recouvrement.
11 envisage maintenant d'infornatiser ses op6rations et sa comptabilite et de former son
personnel aux techniques de recouvrement avec l'assistance foumle par le projet.
Telles sont, Monsieur le Pr6sident, les grandes lignes de la politique que mon
Gouvemement compte suivre pour faire des institutions finaneibres et des insfitutions crappui
de v6ritables outils de developpement du secteur priv6 au Burkina Faso.
Je reste convaincu que pir votre disponibilit6 constante a appuyer les efforts de
dbveloppement, mon pays b6n6ficiera de la part de votre insfitution, de toute I'assistance
nbcessalre pour la mise en oeuvre des mesures envisag6es.
Veuillez croire, Monsieur le Pr6sident, A l'assurance de ma trbs haute consid6ration.
f~~Yt



51
ANEX
EURIMA FASO                            Page I of 3
PRIVATE $E   ARFANCE PROJECT
1.           BackgWund. Burkina Paso is one of the seven members of the West African
Monetay Union (Inion Mondtalre Ouest Africaine - UMOA) whose monetry policies, bank
regation and sapervsion are administered by a common Central Bank (Banue Centrale deg Etas
d l'Afrique de l'Ouest - BCEAO). In late 1988, following the failure of several Banks of the Union,
the BCEAO began to develop, throughout the zone, a modern and responsive financial system. In
1989, following consultations with donors including the Bank and the Fund, it undertook to reform
its interest rate policies by eliminating the practice of directed credit, establishing a money market
rate and unifying its two discount rates (the preferential and the normal) into a single rate slightly
above the money market rate. It has also allowed the banks to freely set their lending rates within
a margin of 5% above the rediscount rate, thus abandoning the system of fixed margins determined
by the boirowers economic activity. To further submit the banks' activities to market-orientd forces,
the BCEAO is now considering adopting another measure which would consist of gradually replacing
the bank-by-bank credit ceilings currently used to monitor the money supply with a system of
manAory reserves. To strengthen bank supervision the BCEAO revised, in September 1991, its
prudential reguations. In addition, the UMOA established, also in September 1991, a sVparate
agency for the zone, the banking commission (Commissio     - CB) to monitor the banks
activities and penaize ihose Which would not comply with the new policies. Since then bank
uprvion has been more frequent and, in the case of Burkina Faso, the CB had, as of late 1991-
early 1992, audited all the banks. Finally, as part of its contribution to the restructuring of banking
systems, the UMOA agreed to consolidate, on concessional terms, most BCEAO claims on the banks
to be restuctu   or liquidated in the member countries of the Union. In Burkina Faso this measure
has helpd to restrcre the balan  sheet of the &Mt Nationale de. MAMO duB
(BND-B).
2.           The instruments available to BCEAO to implement monetary policy still need further
development. Similarly although recently revised and improved, the prudent  regulatory and
suevisory framework is not yet fully compatible with intenaionally accepted standards. These
issues are, however, beyond the control of individual member stat of the UMOA. Consequendy,
though having a direct impact on the soundness of the Burkinabe banking system, their shortcomings
cannot be addressed in the context of the proposed project.
3.           Banking Institutions. Since 1991, when three ailing Government baks were
merged, Burkina Faso's banking system consists of six banks: the Banque Inionale pour lI
Commerce. lindustrie et l'Aicuture (BICIA); the Banuu EJmrnaAiQnale duBurldn (BIB); the
Bo=  Nationale de Ddveloppement du Burkina (BND-B); the Banaue pour le Financement du
Comme=ce et de l'Industrie (FCI); the Caisse Nationale de 4 pemnL Agtiogle (CNCA); and
the Ban    Arabe Lyns  du BMrkina (BALUB). With a participation varying from 50 to 87%, the
Govermet is the majority shareholder in all the banks except BIB in which it has recenty reduced
its share to 25%. Three banks, BICIA, CNCA and BAUIB have foreign sbareholders who participate
in their managemen. By far BICIA and BIB dominate the banking system (Table below).



CONSOUDATED BALANCE SHEET OF THE BANKS
(1991)
____1                                                             -              .,.S                             l1_.         
"           _                 __                                 2_1            22            on             162             s9             8_ 2105
pw*_  iif-vw                                                4, : :        : . :              0S1 4480  46190  I$ i:                                 2 L. 5 1t   7  13
=       et__ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __  _ __     _4621                       4.006          5.448166                       148  a__   _ _ _           II.78
A_l_____         Mmvonm____eA___wn                            818        _                  60.                            4 _1.50I
Si i -eti lls b dk1.767                                        7              6067             8-4                           1-t 16.47
ol                                       _ -   Inge                         I                                                     u2568  66  85754  07  61St  t0  114--    t
dwasaft                                  10,~~~~~¶804                  8400           04521            86          I             103.427
_ ____                                                  4.0_8__  4068  22.26110                     4221            86t 8,865                  GlassI
dod*a'e4dt de                                                      OM.  4
-  anter.df Mae  em                                    .8               2                         tow62.6                       4.207         M23
-- donteredlLanaLermt   -1 162                                        1160              a -475                                                 158.58
-cteditenlmueane bns                               7- 67                  01E                         3 .36           607  _-       274          2462
- howdwaromensAdftmet _                                                                       .          u 731          - --144                   8 
AeeCoam:atomp  .d'ordm.                                      1042         n.m            11016            403             46            847         a6.18
lnunObllhaloM St* GM_                                         25                                   _     2405            154            0710,400
_-Reebts n                                            -      t 120  2--i7                                                418                         4;420
_ O_ L. .AW                                              30.0.1         72214         74_            2KM             2.427         15.80        22.575
.   ,                      ,   _               .              .            .      .             .     : _~~is,               $4
_____________ tS1     ___ _20t            874            114                            2             4
Au__________ __                                       :      t,60C            24__          026                          13t          9.6B2          6.418
__________________i _____                                                                162038     4    .1410           7410           62 _ 16440648
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __a_    _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _  _      I_                       41 1            02            4 0             63         18.618
doantOobe we                                             4_   _0-_       _            18446     - 10818              832            164         47873
do--e Opab Tom PMas de 2am                       60 .           _       __                                                          as
dor*ntC tsaKTie8pecFIa--                                                                                                                __      18,2t4
oCenatCoM s d6Ord                                      t             2             1t8e66          A195            286            , 1.12 -    442
M=                                                           b ,7,002:-9 zm   itow                                       SW
mg. .                                                                               An__  
TOTAL PAS                                                NaM           ? 4            74"48          24.060          U427        t15.eo 
IL
I.,



53
Page 3 of 3
In 1991, BICIA and BD  apreend together about 65% of the CPAF 226 billion of tota banks
assets and their CFAF 150 bill  in depoits contributed about 55% of the CFAF 114 billion tot
credit to th ecoomy.
4.           On the whole, the baking system enjoys a sbstal level of liquidity. Athough
thi level bas decined sic 1988, the ba   deposited In 1992, about CFAF 30 billion on the UMOA
money marikt
Table 7
Banls Key Financial Indicators
(in CFAF bilLion)
1988        1989          1990        1991
Total Assets                 208         234           262          2271
Total Credits                 119        145            154         1191
TotalDeposdit                153         174           176          151
Creditsas % of dsEo              78          83            88          79
Baii  sLexHg on               44          30            18          30
m oney m a k t_          _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   _ _ _  _ _    _ _ _  _  _
I     An  ad adw kam docwasdas a reas of the mnhrhhat wosk place in 1991 (wepara 48)
5.           As in most centralized economies, the banking sector essealy depends on the sate
and the public entepies  which together conribute about 55% of their resouces. In addition to
being very vlerble to a chamge in the ficial situaion of the Govermanet and Its e prism ,
their dei are ovwhelmiy of a short-term natr: chckig deposi and term-deposits of less
ta two years maturit rqeesen about 90% of their tot deps. It is, therefore, not surprising
that the banks are reuctat to grant term-Credit to finmce private invesmnts and prefer to extend
short-erm credit to finnce commc  operations. However, as a result of past lending to public
eaterpise, term-oans rpresent, on the whole, about 35% of their total loan portfolio. The healthy
baoks allocated only about 20% of their lending to public enterprises while tis proportion reached
50 to 60% in Goverment banks.



54
FASO                          Page 1 of 4
ASSNCAM AU                 UNIOU 1>3 POMU NON                               DUaS1
TERMES DE REFERENCE
EYMODUCTION
1.    Aux terms do lordonnnce no. 9140069/PRES du 25/11/91 porta rgime gn*ral des
iportats aet des exons, I'entb  tlout comma la sorte des marchandises au Burkina Paso
est libre. Cen         la sorte ou I rentrde de cos produits les oppaeurs  onom qe out a
romlir, en plu des fonalit douaike, des formalit  administives. Ces dernirs relevent de
difens services qui dwpdent eax-nmes de mlnltka dif       ts: la Direction des impdts , la
Chambre de Commerce et la Dircdon GnErale du Commerce. Cda rtsult en des laourus qul
joueat nEptivemet sw la flut   des opdrations de commerce international. Aussi le G}ouvaneent
4-t decide do concert wo la Baqe Mondlae l cration d'un service ddnommE Guichet Unique
de formalis non douanle du commerce extE6rle  qui g2re d6sormais toa  es procEdres
2.    Co guichet est plao au sein de la Directon G enral du Commerce. Le Gouverement du
Burkina ddsie doter ce service en outils de tva    enables   l'ex6cutlon coe  des tiies
qti lui sont asignEe. Pour cola il recherche l'assistance de consulants spciais  pour l'aider a
dtinir l'orgaion, les poEres at le spport Informatique ncessaives I redre le travail du
guichat unique rapid. at effcient.
OBJFFSM DEX;SO                T
3.    Les consats devront anysr les tkhes du Guichet uniue pour et propose en fin de
mission:
(a)    un       mm  dns    les taches des agens du guichets et le prof0 qu'ils
deralent anvoir pour les exdcuter correment; le consltat dem  en pariculler
Etdlier la possiblit d'accrotoe lefficacitE du Guichet en ddcentrallsant son wavail
par a cration d'antenes hots de la capiale.
(O)   un manuel de pnocdr  do Guichet unique et fom ires, emrimEs et autre
suppot materls b util,
(c)   les outis       i    ndsptnsables  rendre l'execution des tiches du Guichet, sa
geston et lo raltement des donndes rapides et fables.



qg'iI    IL
t am.U
4  j[t                      lijI         'a
fa                                    1' C
r itiIji    IjiIu.uI.I              Mlii
[        0
I 
Pg                       [111    111
Ii
I
a
.  a.  8.
:5
J
ftrI
iij
8.             a..                8.
I.                                    .
.Is I 'a                         a
F                            I     0
aS   wltmt                    115            a,&



56
BURKINA FASO                            Page 3 of 4
tS_l A=   CEfA  PROJC
MMS EN PLACE DUJ GUICH  INIOUDES I)E INVFNKISME
TE1RMES DE REFERENCE
1.    Dans is soud d'aider I la relance des invessets au Burkina Faw, I Gouvernenont a
dcidE de simplifier les procEIures administrtives reltves i retablisseM  de nouvelles entrpm
et de rEduire les ddlais y affents. Pour c fire, i a t cr66 un Guichet Unique des Invtdemes
au sein de la Direction G&erale du DEveloppement ndustriel. Ainsi, les promoteurs qui devaient
aupar=n se ddplacer d'une adminisraton a une autre, peuvent accomplir en un mEme 11u tout.s
los produres lEgales n6cessaires I la crdation ou k l'eztension de lour eteprise.
2.    L'objectif principal du Guichet Unique des Inve nts est la rationalisatliondes inWmalt
li6es & la craIon et & h'oxtension des entrris. Les entreri  con es sont cellos sollicitant
ou non les avantages du Code des wnvetissements.
Le Guichet Unique pamer notmment
-     la rapiditM  dans la d6livrance des attestatons de dEp"t et des dEclarations
d'lnveement industriel ou de serice;
-     la rEisation d'une dcononie de temps en r uant les principaux seices
intervenant dans les formalitds;
-     la bomn  orgnisation des ftmait  pour satisf    au mien les usagers;
-     la possibilit6 d'inomor les opErater en un seul lieu sur touto les fnfomlitEs I
travers entre autres la confection de fascicules d'inbmation en la matigre.
OIEClnr D             nmUAM SOURArM
3.    Le Gouvernement du Burina Faso recherche l'assistance do consultn dont la mission sera
do dfinir rorgansation et les procEdures du Guichet Unique et de fom  son pesonnel sur It tas.
A cette fn, la tkche du Consultant sera de:
a.    diir 1'organsaion du guichet unique, les posts de tail et la qualification du
pesonnel requis;



57
Page 4 of 4
b.    d6finr les promcEr  administratv  qui dolvent te  acopmlie au nivoan dB
Guichet Unque;
c.    consIgner ca pocdur dos un *Guld do Promoteor*;
d.    covoir ls formlaires et autres suort matiels noessalirs I I'acoompl _
des formalitEs;
e.    Identifier les matEriels  tues nsa    a rendre letral dti Guichot at
l'sploitation do ses Infornations rapides et efficacms; et,
C     assur la formation sur le tas des agentsdu Guichet Unique.
ONJ,IZICA3=O DES CONSUILTAMrS
4.    Les consultants rtcherchds devront justifer d'une exprience Eouvdu dana des taux
d'orton admInistraive et en particulier en co qui concerne les tkbes de l'dInIf_atio do
comere Inational. s deont aussi justfier qu'ils Sout au fak do l'ul=on dos moyes
infmatiques pprids au genre do travail qui est celui du guicbet unique.
QFWEM  CNSULTANTS
5.    Les offres des consultants demront kt SOumiSem avant le... (au moins 45 jours I daw do
l'appol d'offe) sous plis cachets au Ministere de l'Industrie, du Commerce et des Mines. Ls offs
de services devront Oto accmpagEe des curriculum vte des consultants proposds justifiat leor
expErience dans le geme de preton r       En plus des prostations oncat  ogiton
du guicket unique, l'offre devra inclure une proposition la plus dEtil6es possible de frmaon suW
le tas de court durEe pour initier le personnel du guichot aux nouvells pocEdures et k l'utsation
do l'apprei inlfrmatque. L  offes soeont notdes sur 100: 80 points seon alouds b la qualifica
du ou des consultants proposds et 20 points I l'offre financimre.
Condilions it a^XXe di tavaill du Consullat
6.    La durEe de la mission sera da deux mois ; maximum   A l'expiration. de co dElal, un
rapport provisoire rddige en franCals comprenant le manuel de procddures, la proposion de matrie
infomatique at son utisaon, le prgrmme de foration sur ie tas et un projet do guide du
promotaur devra ktt temis en 10 exonplafr au Ministre de llndustrle do Commerce et dos Mnes
du GwvarneDeat du Burkina Faso et en 3 exemplaltos I la Banque Mondiae.
7.    Un rapport dnitif sera vtnis dans los memes conditioks quo Is rt  pvoite dan. u
dElal de Un mois apres rEception des  M e di stre dol'_ustre, du Commre et ds
Mine. et do la Banque Mondiae.



58
ANEM 9A
Pape 1 of3
ERB=Al' SECTIOR AiSSStANCERPIOD C
ETUE D13 RESZUUMM9R DE LA CWI
TERMS DE REFERENCE
8.    Le Gouvemement du Burkina Faso s'est engage dans un P.A.S., instrument de Ia mise on
oeuvre d'une nouvelle politique de ddveloppement dconomique qui confie au secteur privd un rOle
moteur.
9.    Dans ce contexte, et avec l'aide de la Banque Mondiale, Is Gouvenoment a mend une tade,
visant A proposer lrenforemeut du cadre institutionnel de promotion du steur prive. Cette etude
a constatE notamment quo les institutions d'appui au secteur privE, et la CCIA, no rEpondaient pas
pleinent aux besoins do represenaivit6 et d'appui n&cessaires aux objectifs de developpement des
inliatives et des enteprises.
10.   La CCIA, conue b l'origine comme un vEritable organisme conulire depeti  des
inbtErs du socteur prive a dedve au fI du temps vers un mode de   ctnome ddem
do l'Etat chargE de l'excution de missions do service public, et de la gestion d'infrstruc
destindes au transit de marchandises.
11.   La rEalisatlon des nouveaux objectifs economiques implique um  recentrge et une
resuctraton des istions de reprEsentation et d'appui des en reu  privds dams lo respct
des foncos et du rOle qu'elles doivent logiquement assumer face a l'Etat. C'est dans ce contexte
quno Etude de restrucation de la CCIA dolt We enagde afin d'en refiire ma instrument de
dEveloppement et d'appui efficace et responsable aux mains des utdlisateurs.
OQIUZ! DE 
12.   L'objectif de l'Etude est de proposer les texts, les procdures et le plan d'action ndcess_e
pour transformer la CCIA en ventable orgaisme consoe, dans le cadre d'un staut pattculier,
dont les organes dirigeants 8tcomposas d'eus par les opErate   prives et dont les regl  de tutOle
Bout spn iquement am5nagEes afin de garantir son indOpendance par rapport aux pouvoirs publics
et son implication obligatoire en mautre, notmment, de rJglementation des affiros et du commerce.
13.   Cette restuurationjuridique dolt tre congue Ipartir des attributions confErEes parlos texts
d'orlglne, I savoir:
-     mission consultadve et reprEsentative,
-     mission de gestion de service communs I carmctre adminisf   rmation.
omation, conseil et promotion des opErateurs prives,



59
Page 2 of '
mission de gosdon de services com uns I caactre industriel etou commercial:
Infstructuree d'lntEt public.
14.   La  ucronjurldique onvage dolt  tllemont pem    de:
garantir la reprdsentativtd de l'ensemblo des opdrateurs conomiques concerns y
comprs lea femmes et le secteur informel, qui acceptwan libremnt d'adhdret I
la Chaunbre de Commerce,
-     garantir la dEfense des intEs d4: opErtus dconomiques,
-     garantir 'lind6pondance de l'instluon par rapport uix pouvois publics,
-     garanir le caractre systdmatique de la consultation de la CCIA par les pouvoirs
publics dans l'amelioration de l'ewnronnemont des affaires et son r8le
le d'ntrfwe,
-     garant   linstitution des ressources suffint pour mener I bien ses missions.
TAVD DU
15.        _            Ia trAnsfmation du statit juridique de la CCIA en organisme
onaie  ndcessite un certain nombre d'actions praables. Lorgansation d'leoctions auprbs des
commor~ants, industriels, societs de service, personnes physiques et morales inscrites an regsre du
Commerce ou des sociEtEd simplement assujetties I la Patente no semble pas rEalsable dans
I'limmndlat Le recours aux organism.. et associations pusx         tes semblo l'opn la
plus rEaliste. Dans ce sens, les tAches du Consultat pevet Otr schEmatisdes comme suit:
16.     ude Juridia. 11 s'agk de revoir le sDta juridique de la CCIA danm l'esprit des objectif
sus-mentionn6s, a savoir:
-     la naro juridiqu de la CCLA,
-     I'organisation des organ  dirigeants,
-     les attributions statutaires.
17.    'Eaatio d'!lg=. n s'agit de proposr un plan d'action operationnl pour la tonue des
Elections des membres et les procddures amx institutions qui veulent adherer I Ia Chambre de
Commerce de designation des organes dligeants, y compris du Directour GEnEal ou du Secretairs
GEnEral. Compto temi de la remarque ci-dessus, cette mission consiste a
-     dresser une nom enatur des professions I reprEsenter,
-     vEifier la             des orgsations profssionnelles oxistae,
-     dEfinir Ia rEpartition des siages par collbg  lectoral (Industre commerce, services,
transport, artisanat, etc..),
-     proposer une procedure d'election des membres conswlaires par les o mat
professioDnelies et, nomment, les ragles de rartton des sibges.



60
Page 3 of 3
18.   pmnosition d'un clendrr pr la tenus des diectis.
19.   Snt  pld   &  somsnn  leg socits qui aurot pmuvd qu'elles ont une expdrience
confirmEe dans ce genre d'tude et qu'dles disposent d'un personnel qualifid et exprimen. LA
offres suont haluees en notant l'xpErience de la firme sur 40, la quatite du personnel propose sir
40 et le prix demande sur 20.
CONDOS ET CALZ= DE WAI
20.   Lad   ,de lamission est estlmee  un mols sur IteaTin etde  semaines pour la r6daction
du  ort fin&a, y compris les projets de tes. Au bout de co ddlai, un rapport povisoire Edige
en Frangai* dora Me rei en 10 exemplaires au Mlstbre de l'Industie do Commerce et des
Mines (MICM) du Gouvernent du Burkdna Faso et en 3 eoxmplafres I la Banque mondiale. Un
rapport defnif aera remis danm les mes conditions que le rapport provisoiredans un deW de un mois
aprs r6ception des commentaires du MICM et de la Banqme mondiale.



61
ANNEM 9B5
Psge I of 3
EIllDU2 IZOIGMN INTEM
DE S IISIUM D'ArPP AU WEC=3RlS
CCO ONAC KF CBC
TERMES DE REFERENCE
INTRODUM1ON
1.    Le Clouvorement du Burkina Faso a entrepris un programme d'ajustement dest6 b
amnlioert les politiques et r4glementations qui s'appliquent aux activitEs du secteur privE de manisre
I co quo celui-ci puisse jouer un rOle moteur dans le developpement dconomique du pays. 11 ddire
maintenant completr les rEformes qu'il a d6ja enrepre dans ces domaines par une rnision
du systime d'appui  I 1'ensprise pvde de manisre I le me  an mesure d'apporter une assistance
effiace aux entepreneurs du secteur privE. 11 souhaite confier I des comultants de(s uno) Etude des
trois princales isuions qui constituent co systeme d'appui, I savoir la Chambre de Commerce,
de 'lndoe at de l'Ardtsanat (a CCIA), le Office National du Commerce Exeiur (ONAC) et la
Conse Burknabe des Chargeurs (CBC). Pour respecter le principe de d-seogagement de 1'Etat qui
est 1'un de ceux qui sous-tndent son programme d'ajustement, cette 6tude devait conduire a uIw
redEfinition du r6le ces instiutions de maniere A ce qu'elles deviennent, en transf6rant leurs actiites
administaives I l'Etat et lears activitds commerciales au secteur priv6e, des organis_m  priv6s se
consacrant eellement  a funiture de services d'assistance indipenables au developpement
do l'enrI"piso priv6e. Le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso a fait faire une promiere revue de ces
institutions par la Socie EUREXCEL. Cette &ude, de meme que leas udes spf ,ifIques prEparEu
par les institutions ella-mOmes, seront fournies et devront servir de base d'inlbrmation aux
consultants appelEs I enUe  e  l'teude dont les termes de rEfErence sont pr6sent6s dans les
paragw hes ci-aprts.
OUES31 DE LMEIE
2.    Vobjectf final de l'Etude envisag6e est de proposer un pWi do reasuctuaton pour chacune
de ces ins*tion selon le principe mentionne precddemment. Ce plan devrait assurer: (i) que les
fonctions devolues I ces institons d'appui rEpondent effectivement ox besoins exprimds par les
opdrtes du secter prive eux-m0me en matiere de services et d'assistanco indispensables t la
promoton de leurs activitMs; (ii) qu'eeUes acquerront les moyens ndcessaikas I garantir que les
missions confliees par les opbateurs prives I ces institutions soient entreprises de la fagon la plus
efficace possible; et (iii) qu'elles pourront a trme devenir financierement  t



62
Page2 of 3
3.    Pour pouvoir  ablir ces pl_ d restuctura, les consultan  devront eteprende, -m
quo cote Isto sot ehausdve, ls tches suivates:
a.    idenfier, sur la base du rapport EUREXCL at ean co talon Wtrokte avec ls
Stu  prives at les Mistbres concerns, los missions dev   rlover de d_ce
des i_hhoc, sai quo de I'Adminsraon (eon patculer Dirction du Cmerce
et Direcdon des Traports), et les mission nos elles I entroesr;
b.    procdder I us diagnostic opdralonne at financier ehaustif de la CCIA, de l'ONAC
et du CBC;
c.    6uer ls chaiements & apporter au nivean de lorganisdon et des ressources
humalnes et fllackos de ces InstiutioS; cee haluatlon dovra inclure ls tr_ansf
de foncos et d'actfs&  oprr entre Hles, les d 4d       de l'Administratim
centale concerns, l sectour prive pour leur permettre d'assmr efficacement los
misions qul lour roenet;
d.    idenfier les meuces techiques, humains et flncirs ncessalres, das un
souci d'offcacit maximum et de contr6le des coOs; ced devrakt inlure l'asstane
techique externo requise et I'assistance financi?re de l'Ea sur une base dMMenlve;
le principe do sous-itance par 'Etat I ces institutions des thes I caracte
adminisratif sers examine si cela s'avere n6cessaire;
3.    dvelopper des propositions de           Interne des institions d'appul qul en
focion de leuts nouvelles misions devraient kmre m _nto    (coHes dont l'xtence
n'E   plus justifie, devant disparatre: strucu, mode de    _  ,  niveu
des effectifs, profils do quaification; en ce qui concerne la CCIA, les  ul
domt apporter utne attention particulire I la dEinition des tachos at do
l'orpnsaio  de son d       _Atement qui sets en charge d'apporter son aide aux
entrepreneus sdlon les prnipe suivans: (i) la CCIA no donnera pas elle me
d'assistnce aux entepreneurs mals devra les Idendfiet les institutions locaes ou
etrangbres, ou los programmes mis en place par les baileos de fonds capables de la
lewr fonir; et, (i) Paistance ficibre de la CCIA, et en particulier celle qui seea
finance. par la Banque mondiale, pour aider las entrepren     I acquErir l'aide dont
Us ont bsoin  dew  Sir soignosomet  aude et sa mise en oeue suivie par la
CCIA et ded Sr donne si la base do f ules do rEcupEration des cos (genre
Faso Barr) qui seront        dfuiaes par los consultants;
f.    dvelopper des propositions coOnDC   le mode de financement des istttons; at
g.    prpamr un plan et un calondrier de mise en place des r6forms propoes at dEfni
l'assistce technique n6cessaire I as mise en owwe.



63
Page 3 of3
OUAICAIIONS Er SLECIJXTON I=C)BAA
4.    Seon appoldes h soumisoner leas socidtds qui auront prouv qu'elles ont une e
confirmde dans les 6tudez dorgason de co genr d'lstons et qui disposent d'un persowel
qualifid et exp4timentd. Les offrs seront evuues on notant 1'expdriece do la firmo mu 40, la qulit
du person    propose sur 40 et le prix demande sur 20.
COND0MN Er CALIMRR E1 TSitAVAL
S.    L'ude dvra  to termne dans un dElai maximum de trols mois aprbs le paiement de
l'avance. Au bout de co delai, un rapport pvsoire rdige n Franas devra etre remis en 10
exemplaires au eMistbre de l  eusrie du Commerce et des Mines (MICM) du Gouvernement du
Burldna Faso et en 3 exemiplalres I la Banque mondlale. Una pr6snation orale co rapport I
Onagadougo devra Ote prdvue. Un rapport dWbfinitf sera rnmb dans les mOmes condions quo le
rapport provisoire dais un ddlal de Un mois aprOs rdception des     du MICM et de la
Bnqueo mondiale.



64
BURKMA FM                               pog 1 On
EIUDE SUR LA GESIION DES INFRASMRUCTVES
DE IA CCIA Er DU CDC
TERMES DE REPERENCE
Dm WDUQMM
1.    Le Gouvenoment du Burkina Faso a oteprs un programme d'ajustomt dest   I
awlorr les politiques et rgmeations qui s'appliquent ani actvls du sectaur pruvd de manke
I co que colui-i puisse jouer un r8le moteur dans le d6veloppement Eooomique du pays. B desire
malutant complEer ls rfrmes qu'il a ddJI entueprses dans ces domainm par une ra   ion
du systame d'appui I 1'entrprise privde do manike I le mote on  m    d'a rr    asss
efficace aux entrepreneurs du secteur pnve. 11 soubalte confer a des consultant une Ede en vue
de tonalise la geson des in    ures de stociage et mamanuton dans los pots ou d&arqunt
lea marduandises ImportEes par le pays et embarquent celles qu' exporte. A l'houro actuole, la
Caambre de Commerce, de l'lndustrie et de l'Artaat (la CCIA) et le Cons  Burklab des
Chaurs (CBC) poss&dent et gbret de tells infrastructures ainsi quo des magasn sitUE aux pois
d'lmportation et d'xportation du ps. Cette eude devrait condure & une rationaliation de la
geston de cs Inrasructures en conflant lagesdon I uns seule nsttt. Cet8 Inshtiution pourralt
m l'une de deux institions existntes, une ou des societ(s) priv6e(s) I laqudle (auxquelles) ces
iftuctr  seoaient sot vendues sokt saus,raitEs. Ces dHIf ntes modalities de gestion devraieat
te analysdes du point de vue de leur efficlence afin de dEterminer celle qui maximsera l'effiacte
globale du systkne d'i. Un plan dEtUle d'action pour passsr de la situaon actue a
celle que les conts reommander  dea etr prent6.
2.    Le Gouvenement du Burkina Faso a falt fie une premibre revue do ces Intitto  par la
SocietE EUREXCEL. Cetto Etude, de memo quo les  tudes spEqifiques prdparEs par les bittuio
elles-mes, swont furnies et devront servir de base d'inforimation amu  conultants appels I
enp dre l'etude dont ls tomes de rfrce sont prEetes dns les paragraphes ci-aprs.
TACHES DES CONLTA
3.    Sur base de l'audkt fmancier de la CCIA et du CBC, analyser les aspects juridiques
concemt la prpriEte des infastructures de la CCLA et du CBC:
(a)    Analyser l'offlcacite du mode de gestion actuel des ia  par les services de
la CCIA et du CBC;
(b)    Examine l'apportunit6 de regrouper la gestion des divorses in es;
(c)    DEveloppr des propositions concemant le mode de gestion des Ifrate   qui
serait l. plus approprM pour attdndre l'objectif ci-dessus mtionne:
-     sstas quo avec eventuellement des propositions peamettant de rdaliser des
gaIns do productivite,
-     veote de tous une d'une partte des actifs a des opdraes prives on b des
goupemem  d'utl_ou,



65
Pae 2 of 2
-     privatsatlon de la gesdon sous usI Abmu I definlr r  eemplo: GE,
coopive d'utlhsateurs, societE d'economie mi, mis aon g6rance, etc..);
(d)    Evaluer les bnfices potendels de la solution propose en tmes d'amloaton du
serice, de rEduction des coOts, etc..;
(e)    Si la privatisation de la propriEtE ou de la gesdon apparait la solution la plus
appoprido:.
-     d4velopper le cabier des charges auquel doeLa ktre soumb le tionne
pour gaanr la sauvegarde de l'iNnt  general,
-     elaborer les mcisms de suivi du respect du cahier des charges,
-     proposer un mode de rEpartition des rdsultats de la gestion.
-     identifier l'ensemble des actions prparatoires a entreprendre (y compris au
niveau juidique);
(t)    DEvelopper un plan et un calendrier de mise en oeuvre des changements proposds en
indiquant lassistance technique qui serait requse pour sa mise en oeure.
OUAIIFCATIOQNS Er SELECIION DE  CONSULTANIM
4.    Soront appelees I soionnor les socwEtds qui auront prouve qu'elles ont ue expdrience
confirme dans des etudes du genre de celles visdE par ces tormes de rfErenc. Iles devront
prouver quieiles disposentd'un persnel qualifiE et expEimente. Les offs serontevaluds en notant
1'experice de la frms sur 40, Ia qualite du personnel proposE sur 40 et le prk demands 8ur 20.
CONDrMON ET CALENDR  DE RVI
S.    L'Etude dowa &tto terminee dans un delai maximum do trois mobs apres le paiemont do
l'svance. Au bout de ce delai, un rapport provisoire rMige en Fans devra tre remis en 10
exemplaires au Ministbre de l'Industrie du Commerce et des Mines (MGCM) du Gouvemement du
Burkina Faso et en 3 exemplalres I la Banque mondiale. Une prEsentation orale ce rapport I
Ouagadougou devra k  prevue. Un rapport dEfiifmf sera remus dans les ml!mes condios que le
rapport provisoire dans un delai de un mois aprts reception des co-mentaires du MICM et de la
Banque mondiale.



66
nI!xmEm                                 Page 1 f 3
PRIATE SECTO ASSfISIANCI P R°J
TERMES DE REFERENCE P    LA LA               RUCRATION DES CHEQUES
POITAUX ET viw LA CAIS  D'EPARGNE
TERMES DE REFERENCE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    Dans le cadre de son programme d'ajustement structur, le Gouvernmt du Burkina Pao
(GBE) a decide de restaure, dans le cadre de restructuraon du syst2me finncier qul a entrpriso,
la siuaon finacibre des Chbques Postam et de la Caisse d'Epargno (CCPICNE) awi de lowr fir
jouer un rle plus actif dans a  mobilisation de la peti   pargne .t sa mse I la dlsositon du
ddveloppement de l'conomie Burkinab. Le GBF souhaite donc voir les CCP/CNE restructurft afin
de pouvoir r4pondre I cet objectif. La restnuchuraon des CCPICNE devrakt ktre basde sur u
de la gestion de leur tresorerie de cello de l'Ofice Natonal des Posts (ONP) et du Trdsor
public. A cette fin, il a dcidd de confler I des consultantsune etude doutles tms de r6fdrence sont
presentds ci-aprbs.
B.    OBJECIF DE L'IETVDE
2.    Dan une preminre phase, une etude des flux financiers des CCP/CNE, qui sera mise & la
disposition des consultants a dE effeotoed en 1991. Un audit de leurs comptes at de leoas sation
financier sera fait durant le dernier trimestre de 1992. Le rapport d'auit sera aussi mis I la
disposition des consultants. Les objectifa de la prsete Etude sewont de: (i) prposer l  mesuro
juridiques ndcssaires I doter, si possible les CCPICNE d'une personnaitd juridique pr, bUen
qe'ils fassent parde de l'ONP, qui lul permette de detacher ses flux financiers de ceux du Tror; (iI)
de ddfinir comment la gestion et les opErations des CCP/CNE paivent  e sq?ds de ceux de
I'Office National des Postes; (l) de proposer une organisation at procues propres au
fonctionnement des CCP/CNE; et, (lv) do faire des projections finanibres Etablissant que cette
instiuto sers viable I long term.
C.    TACHES DES CONSULTANTS
3.    Les CCPICNE font partie intdgranto de l'Office NLtkonal des Postes qui a le Wt
d'Etablissement Public I Caracibro Industriel et Commercial. Ce sabt doit, dana le cadre des
rdformes des enteprises publiques, em changE sokt on satut d'Etablissement Public I Caractire
(EPA), soft de SociEt d'Etat soumise & la m&me rdgle'Ienion qui les sociEts
industrielies et commerciales privdes. Au sein de cette entitd les CCP/CN1 devraient devenit une
entitdjuridique propre qui puisse disposer elle mfme de s trsaroie. iEle devrait pouvoir rocevoir,
en utlisant le rdseau postal, les ddp6t du public. La possibilitd pour cette nowuelle inslikution de
consentir des credits I seo deposants devrait 8tre analys&. Eile devrait auim pouvoir placer ses
excddents de urdsorerie, qui en aucun cas ne gouilent Air utilisE pour financer las oDaions do



67
Page 2 .f3
la     soit auprs des banques of scion d'autres modalits I d6finir au cours de l'dtude toujours
dam le cadre do la rdgenon de l1UMOA. Dans cete pespecve, les consuant dev:
i.    proposr les dispositions lgles I prendre pour doter la CCPICNE d'une
personnalitE juridique qui lul permetto de detacher ses flux financiers du Trsor
Public;
H.    defiur los disotdons praiques I prendre pour assurer la sEparation des trdoreies
at opErtions des CCP/CNE et de l'ONP;
iii.   prwposer la convention I per ntre las CCP/CNE et l'ONP pour que les piers
puisseot utiser 1 rdeau postal et les dispositions I prendre pour usurer l'auonomio
des gestion des troreries  tous lesstades de la gestion des deux avts;
iv.    enIeprondre unte eude prospective la future activitd des CCP/CNE. Pour cola, Us
devont (1) analyser 1'ev nment dams lequel cett instion financiere seta
amenEe  opdrer at ddfinir son marche potentiel face a la concunc d'un syst&me
bancaire restructurE; (2) evaluer le potntIel do collecte d'sparpe des CCPICNE par
onqute auprbs de sos clients potetiels rand public, en s, emigration etc..);
V.    dEfinir uns strate commerciale et de gestion de sa Esorerie;
vi.   dEfinir l'ognsaton, le support inlrmatique et les procddurs de gestion de
l'instliuton;
vii   proposer un plan d'aprement des deaes do Tsor vis I vis des CCP/CNE et
analyser l'impact sur le trdsor public de la sEparation de la trUorerie CCP/CNE de
cello de l'ONP;
viii. etablir des projections financibres sur cinq ans au moins qui devront montrer sous
queUles conditions l'instution sera flnanci&eent viable a long terme; et,
ix.   proposer un plan d'action d6talI16 pour Ia crtion do Ia nouvelle instition.
D.    APPEL D'OFF           Er PROPOSITIONS DES CONSULTANTS
4.    Les consltas feo  deux prpositons dans decu pLis cachetes contenus dans une me
enveloppe qui sera envoyde I Monsieur le Mlniste d'Etat Charge des Finances et du Plan du Burkina
faso. La premilxe proposition saa une prWoion technique qui devra comprondre une presentation
des quaifications do la compagie et celles des consulats propos pour effectuar une Etode de co
gen.  Bile compndra aussi une offe technique detaille incluant ene description de la
mdiodologle, des moyens envisagEs et un calendrier de rdalisatin de lEtude. La seconde propositon
sera le prpotion _nncre.



68
Fag. 3 ot3
S.   L1s propositions techniques srwont d'abord aalysdes et notdes sur 80. Los proposition
financikes swont ensuite analysEes at not6es sur 20. L'offre qui ra requ la note la plus proche de
100 sera declare la meMlewr.
E   REMISE DES RAPPORTS
6.    Dans un ddlai qui n'excderpasp  u mobsaprs la fin de l'td wsur leteain, les cosutats
devront remrem un rapport proiire on 8 exemplaires au Mistke des Finances et du Plan du
Burklna Faso, on 2 exmplaVlres la Caisse fnaise de D6veloppement, I la Direction National au
Burkdna Faso de la Banque Centrale des Etats de l'IAfrque de l'Ouest et I la Banque Mndlae I
Washington, DC. Un mols au plus tard aprf rception des Iommentalre du Gouvonem_nt du
Burkina Faso, Us devront remem   lour rapport dnltlfs dans les nikms conditions quo l rapport
povisoire.



69
A.NU
BURMNA FASO                             Page  of 3
PIVATE REM ASSICE JERQA
TBMFS DE REFERENCE
DVNE EFUDE DE FACTBIlifE DE NOUVEAUX
INSURUMENTS FINANCE RS AU BURIA FASO
TERMES DE REFERENCE
I.     ITRODUCTION
1.    Le Gouveremont du Burkina Faso a eatrepris en restutaion du systbme bancaire et s'est
engag6 par aillers danu  n proess  do privasation des entreprises publiques, daos le cadre du
Poamme d'Ajusont Structurel.
2.    Avec 10 concours de la Banque Mondiale il elabore un projet d'appui au ddveloppement du
secteur prlv pour la prEparaion duquel une Etude a e6 conduito sur le potnel de dEveloppement
de l'in.ermiation financiere au Burkina Faso.
3.    Cette Etude a identifie la possibilit de promouvoir de nouvelles structures et de nouveau
instument  financiers devan renlbrcer les capacites de financemnnt des mv         des
rerises et permeltra d'accompagner le processus de privtisation des entreprises publiques tout
enoffrantdenouvehaux   u    sx amndsitutonsd'Eparpecontractuellep leplacementdeleurs
rdaerves. En particuier, cUe a identifie la possibilit de cr6er un Ponds Commun de Placement axE
sur les actdons des sotes pdvatise et d'un Fonds Commun de Placement I Risques.
EL  ORR= DE L'ETUDE
4.    Lobjectif de la prsefte etude est
-     Identifier
-     de procdder a la tibilitdes d ex   Fonds dont lacreation est o misagEe
-     sur la base de cette factibilitE. et compte te  du caract&ro novateer de tels
intme  daos le systbme exsnt, d'asister les investisseurs intressds k leur mise
en place effective
IIL TACI A ACQM2K
S.    Au niveau de la factibilite des Fonds, le Consultant analysea de fboon detalleo les points
suhvnt:
dEterination de la nature et de la ibrme du nouvel insment
dime _alonnent du Fonds
Idetificaton des investisseura appeles I constituer le Fonds
constitution des acdfs du Fonds
*     nature des actifa pouvant y ke inclus



FI h i               0.        {t  g 



71
Page 3 of 3
V.                  RAPPOBRT
9.   LVtude da km tmine  dans un ddlai de tro  mobs aprs lo palement de 'avace. Au
bout de co del, un rapport provisoire dora km romis n 15 exemplaires au bftlsto de l'Industrie,
du Commewe et des Mines (MICM) du Burkina Psso et eo 3 exemplalres  la bBanque mondiao.
Un rapport d60n}tif sera remls dans les momes conditins que le rapt provisoire dans un deW do
un mobs aprs rEcepton par le Consultant des commentairea du MICM et de la Banque mondlo.



-72-                               A    lNEE I2
BURIA PASO
PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTAUCE PROJECT
__________________________ __   . EunMATED  lOJECT CO0T_
L ASSISTANCE TO EJ.OM.'.                    LOCAL       FOACIGM       TOTAL   1% O FOREIGN
EXCHANGE
___________I___~~ I   I___wte
.,    Aa I tu o ,,_._._.._:_                                           .__ __ __   ___ _____
A _ _ __=P,                                                       =I          =
aiirAf         - C                         -       _ ' D l  _ ''0         ' '  :
E9M!pd  Evauton                             600     _                   0_ 000     0%
- Opt  ;Codt                              1470          180         1650         11%
,       hSb-totl                         ,~              8200 i,  toU         .   >
IL INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT COMPNENT                                 J
- SuabuCtwlr,g COlA. CICIONAC                               200         200100
N. TofweaIAssIsbn.                                                        I
-,  imenao  tde RcommenatIon        ______   _____             ______
-To CiUA                  _                                300          300         100%
- TO PIdte EIweor_s_r_                                     100         1800         100%
__   __      &Sub-               -          ,a, 0      -                2760  _      t01
IM. FINANCIAL SECTOR COMPONENT
---^- -
1 -_ hwstetakAean                                     ________ 120          120        100
Ipdatin - U bankaudibt            _ It21 220                          t20         100%
M                                                          ISSOInSCOPINE  _  I  10  1E0  100%
- Studvo_Plnanlalitrmnts                                   IGO 150      150         100%
_~ ~ ~~D _0 ________   -
-T lA AC                                                 _               ...t.  __c_
- EquIpmet                                    100        .              100          0%
Sub-tota,                          170 _            ,49 8         -
IW. PROJECT COORDINANON
-     . _' - P=prad_i -'--'  '                   ..1d_ _t
300                     o300           0%
-CommunIaon                                   250           50           00          17%
8ub-total                          880                      72 2-4........
V. PPP REFUND (1)                                 280           230         510          48%
VL PHYSICAL AND PRICE CONlIOEtCIES                440           600        1040          U%
GRAND TOTAL                                 37900siJ6058
y of. .dm.  Com nw. and M_me
(t) Pham   In paWliw  I pr.pa*II of CCIA's prh_ax@an   lP r*4 ao_m*I O.yir



-78-                  ANIEXE12
F U          PLAN
L  M8TANCE TO ALLOWM.                        TOTAL    j    IDA      j GOVEMNE
A o. $-p Weoo                                                  20
- T#  iPMA                                     soa-t*S                       I
LI INrNTIONTXAL SUPPOWIr COMPONENT
A   p, aes                                                   25          14es
_ _ _ _ _____________1______ ______ __   -I                       .
"zlUPPW2amm. I _ _ | * 
s~~- S
At T.eAdee Aumhifne
- TO G                                         S            S00             0
- TOP-iate    emw.                                  0     10o00            0a
DL FINANCIAL SEOCTR COSMPONENT
A Afeendot AMP
- bws ;bnw Eu*v                                22uIn  ;-  __O_        _ _
220          220            0
c do ICCPFan e                    _____ 160              1500
- - ~                                           150 To_           _   _  _
_ Atabem  o gb
-TS @I WM tMA S flOS                 __ _  _ _    __  _  _  _  
IV. PROJECT COORINWATI
---                                                       SW
V. PPF  ED                 8=D10                                 610            0
VI PHYSIAL AND PRC  CONTIOEES                     1040          1040            0
GRAN  TOTAL                                  gm           70W0          2000
,,*8ydofiMi7, Caue And A.ibm



BURIOtNA FASO
PRIVAtE SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLANING
A.   ASSISTANCE TO THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY. COMMERCE AND MINES (M.I.C.M.) COMPONENT
1. ONE STEP WINDOWS (08W)                          199$             1 9 9 4          1909             1096             1907
1_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                - -  -     -                     m __   -   _   - _- _   _        _      -__
* AcoItIn d now tex for O8W Invstent         X       -
* TOR.ndehohti gat                           x
* AssAmt                                    ==or 9MIpM  - n   -          =  C=-                                          - -
* Eqtdpement urchawe and mlfnplmenton
nternatonaI Trade
* TORsandShort lot                           X      _             -                               _
* As_tnce for organ)on
* EaLiloement sttches. and imalementilon          _             _ =                                                        -   _
I. PRIVATISATION COMMISS1 ON                       t 9              1 S  I 0 9 4     t9 05            I 606            t 0 9 7
__________-_________-_______                       1 nisBentertless  l0enterwl.    loenernires         EPICS      i
_Prvtsation of Entorstlse.          ,II_ _ _
__entr_ bes  11 10 enterrlses        EPICS    II_II_I_I_I
EWalua_on of Ent   sI _I_                                  _                                                              
EPIC8 - Eablseem.nt Publices A Cractwr Admhnstellf: whhh would be convrted Into Socetee (enterprises under commerallaw)
as a restA of a renew oter manat. tat*d In bte 1992
o Id



B.   INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT COMPONENT
1. PRIVATISATION OF COOA                      1 9 9 6        1094           1 9 9 5        1 9 96    |    1 9 9 
ESabhment of en tected mannaement
- TOR* and thatt otX
-S-tudy -
2. REOROISANI8AON OF THE COMCDACI
AND ONAC SUPPORT STRUCTURE                19h 199                                       1 99 9   S   9 9 6  I 9 9 7
2  . RER AI  ATO   OF    -h C   .  _s                                                      1990...................  199?-_,       -     ,  
|    tud da CCIA, CBC and ONAC
- ShortlWt Id                       X          _   - =         - -        | ----   - - -    -   -    |  |
S. RATrIONAUS8ATION OF CCIA MND COBOe 
INSFRASTRUCTURES                          1 9319                          951990                       1 997
- short dost 
- Invton to bid and contmet award
_- Sudy and preparat_n  of acion plan
A|reement on acon elan             _|
6    - ImpIenennaio.,                                                            _               
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CClA
.. TECHNICAL ASISTANCE TO PRVATE                       j                               1  1 
ENTREPR1 nEURS       o                       -          J                                 L |  1
00
to 
0%
|    - Afiremenionc0onplan    :  ,  : [  g  1, j  |  ..   -T   X   ra;    ra J;  rr   r  T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tl
k  -  Imd0mentalion   __   _   w _l  I_I_    |  I   .  .1  1  1  1  I    I  I  I  I    J  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cx



Ca FINANCIAL Sacrot
A. TDCIDIICLASSTANCBTO MI                   19     _ -  1994         I 1 995 s        _  1996   .       1991
- ORsiradshottoMbyst                                                 J.
2. 8tudoofCOWQI                                     ___
__________                                            __ Z ZZZ7>_    _ _
-     -9                          3         19 _          l    _
on MMi  G_"M !C  & i mft                 § 3          10 -3  _99 -t                                   I       .-. ,,
- Sbwttlst                           xI                                                          I
- J,ttElostoW suoinuac swf                                                                         j _L_ - -   --IIII11  
- Suadefrawa"Cmacdom   and
D. AStWANr TO l_ R t                      19 93          1 8 9=9 4      togs           1996          1l97
-_ Sh_____________   _  _                    I    _     _                       =__L     I  11         >
___________EEE- --E 
19du_Di_  1993  |  |4  1   199S    t1996    199?
-         -                      d-            ir orr-                       -    -'   '  
w
a'.



ETMLE II.MENTAUO PLUNNU FMI 18
A.  ASlSANO  TO THE  INTU  OF INDU8T. COM_OU            AND WIES "-)
FAIm pon1wuuu                                                                  1    *    9    * S
1. ONE  TEP WNDOWS (OA.W_                                                     L
tApon witenlsuo  1r of 08w bwomemn                  GOVERNMEIt        -                           -     --
-TORe OrT.clift AtAel   amnd   otlt                        DGCIbOPtA       -   - X                           -          -   -      -
- o   t aid oInd51                                                       -    -    _    _    =             -          -
__- enfmo ame  md ed                                      ________= ___
- DdbgfI    of      lend moedLe                         CONSULTANT_
- UPDo _d eq_ _ m _
_ P      dwoe    E  m: t eZd Inlalotion                    D_CI_                                                             _ 
2. PRIVAAIION OOMUMSON
bl) Ewutblo edudbs.ee__
- SubmleDAto    doumeftabn ftntup"                                                        __
.velutbn bt IS                                     _____          ___=__ 
- _Roiew of docum__nts
- Aretmnt and kvtabtlm to bid                        __=____                                                - _
- Ewtgtbni wnd Cntraot Awatd                         ___________                                            _     _
- 8      1 o eontect and bnhg pvakutn                  CNSUgLTANS        ___                   ___.
(b)_Pdva                                                __I__I                                                                       I     I
-_Prlvtlztonof i5 enlmm,ee                                             _I____
- ReCepion or bbid                                                            X
- Evlaston of bid and edt                            ____'___
010
Kl
ihfA



- 78-                           Ainnex 13
Page S of 6
1- -i     ,      - a      -  ] 
i __I_I
- -             -            T   
W~~~ I



- 79 -          Annex 13
Page 6 df 6
_  -  - .   X   
1'21 U
8X1X  l __]
a1 1i       i (      f 
-I       (!  



- 80-            Annex 14
u g~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 1. -\Pof3
s~~~~~        0
z              I
B ti _ l~~~~~
i Wu.l~~i 
. \       '7s      :t,,.
Wj~~I



W W
I. PMwedaMetsCC                 0  eseed zauawaaefpdvte             * C=Vple. Apd     993            * Na ea deayedpa,ct           0          d
_________    ~~~~awtupvmnibawee.over CC1A                   ___           __        __         &.vams
2. RAin mIuda  .                  Rad1 mevlieof                      *       odmpid and sco"   *pe0Tkuenau 3nawyhdy,                   A  pln f* CCIA
ar  .,~e!I    amiw              C1CR)AC                             named.06194                     approI  mla plan fu OCUA       rsUmaur      ae
mnaesutuh aid rOb, S=u        qpi@iPIdbyOavunmei
* SAurb ke dmisa           a         C    ea Xmu.mqccqeklsd by    * t OCR an _ONAC                  pivW Nsl ad DA
* C    _oaia In CCaZ P mp                                           0 *lhirm Io                     Asrg  *  nuenw  .C3K
p-_s       o eqmaem               SONAC, CDC =aauswdt              a        CClA                  MAC IR mded o" e
0       CCIASO                                            0 CCIA auadmd b Uaada  to Zap
*                      _-SC"* donA    t _  a oda DIP
da  prA$ c In eoevMtpn    PhD     I, Ia  I ln - I
*CCU&9, Coodeespogmauo                                                       litgodm mmd            md a stt w_-1 _
saato         _qp_Vafs mea Du                                       nisento pat*  ge
*                                                                                                       b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mdu.geduiCinC
* CCJL sffietlagbelk t a ge p.r d,                                                                     OC  udl _ dhsu
s*iana R d y wood
* dbIsONAC adCsCx                                                                                   by cmm*aua as udu at
S. Rado.duia efCCU/CDC%         0 daaocmorew meaqed ia n            0 *Sk*d eapleekwom*TUhhU.IyISMaO                               * Acileapha aPpvby 
lafrulmdwIsaamIn. *Moy mu.edby. p _                                                                                                        -     a X
pdelisl                           * e0A . plo aped 06194                                          SW IDA
* SemI._uepawt*DIW*Aw
0 Bad oth_eamado 14             dea do Lelm n w*             0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,i                                                _mek.adld___________
4. Tedj hAigsbCaIL              0 IdbI  hfmelnayle on                 3eIeIn|snOCW e  _ _naann    0 CaAamido.alsdl                 * fA_ ba ensuebde
* CCbAL  pemom I c.qat
* lwbWdatA byC=A
IL Tet i Amualmels tolu         * Kesp eweCAa gee0s                                                  * IvbaOb7 CCIA OTA esdis       - C[Abaa mad M
ldawpmenu                       d g er coat easoteeq benda tta  e_awwyh cburked                        r abe_ ow r h_e 1hebd       eieew.nfatTA                0n
media..                              they med                       bIC  daft hs
7  -   - --  -  -  Im   iw   11   iEiSi |   _                  i_    __ *.   .e   diig     .e . _  _._                                 O



- 82 -      Annex 14 -PageS3of 3
:~~~.   .I ii II
*:~~~~~I I!H
|~~~~~~~__   lii iiI
t~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 0
~~~.*          * h



PRIVATE Sl)ltR ASS15AC PIIQIECT
SUPERVSON !PLAN
AROX.                ACrTVIW AND OBIECIIVbS                               EXIEC    SKILS                     sAW-
DATES       __U                                                                    MtlS                .
O_            Suprvision missbn to:                             Task Mana  Procurement ad diseent                7
a  launch project and check on condition of     speiai
efet frienes
Task Ma
b. check on measures of Implementadon planming
6/93 - 993    Desk supervision to renew bidtg cona  awards      Task Manag and prremt speciaists                 a
and prcurem    documentaton for:                 Financial Specialist
O study on MCM's data collection system
O TA to onesoep a
o evauatIon of PEs tbeo p   zd
o reorgaizaon of CCWCB/ONAC                                         .
o        z         of CCIA and CBC warehousing
bnftruu
o study of CCP/CNE and financial io s
O TA to BCRB
09/93     Superision mission to check on:                   Task Manage                                      S
O bid evaluation for MICM study, the revision   Procurement Speciist
of law on bad checks and TA to BRCE
0           W I _o1    stats of om step window
o contact awards for PEs evaluadton
O Imple      o of stdies on CCIAWCBC/ONAC
and on warehousing Infrastructures
O negtaton for PEs prW itatW
p rparion of   fie fst quty report                                        ._
IO/93M-12J   Desk supevision oo foilow up on:                  Task Managr                                      4
o prlvaizaon
sdies being Implemented



-84-             Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
41-1~~~~~~~~~~~~*
10,~~~~~~*
N~~~~ 0J 0
L~~~~ p§§1    $S 1 m    .



85
1^ FASO
PtRIVATE SENCIsPROJmECTH
DisburstM Scheule
($ 0'S)
IMA I1sM Year and Quarlers
FY 93                      Quaterly            Cumulathve           Cumulative
Disbursement        Disburseent              %
June        1992        420                    420                   6
F4
September   1993       590                    1010                   14.4
December   1993         820                   1830                  26.1
March       1994       610                    2440                  34.9
June        1994        395                   2835                  40.5
September   1994       235                    3070                  43.8
Decemtber   1994        380                   3450                  49.3
March       1995       340                    3790                  54.1
June        1995        300                   4090                  58.4
,FY 9C
September   1995       340                    4430                  63.3
December   1995        430                    4860                  69.4
March       1996       380                    5240                  74.9
June        1996        430                   5670                   81.0
FY 97
September 1996          350                   6020                   86.0
December   1996         350                   6370                  91.0
March       1997        330                   6700                  95.7
1997       300                   7000                  100.03



