Doaiut of
lhe World Bank
FOR OMCIAAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-5994-BUR
IDEKORAJDUM AND NECONKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEMATIONAL DEOPENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE ADONT EQUIVALENT TO US$7 MILLION
BURKINA PASO
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANC PROJECT
FEBRUARY 23, 1993
HI 191QF ICH E' CJPl'Y
el:,t-  tr . r   ,t.>  FTIi    Tvi>t-  (P1)i
='>i t,. I   PII VATE "SECTY-  [;5J :Jj!(D5; ,--7
At *}SirAiXiI, {)hERR 1F
Ext. -:r0,4  F'-om:,T 9uI1  Dept   AFz,P
TIlE r   CHA'3C:E  AT t;FTEE'Nd F .S V E   .-'t A!;E
bis docment has a restried dtribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ther officl duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disdosed without World Bank authorization



CENC1~Y EALENT
Currency Unit                     CFA Fac (CFAF)
US $1.0             -             276.62S
CFAF 1 malion    .                US $3,615
SDR 1.0                           US $1.371
ABBRMATIONS ADM CAOYM
AGSECAL    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BCEAO        Banque Centale des Etats de r'Afrique de 1tOuest
BFCI          Banque pour 10 Financement du Commerce et de l'ndustrie
BIB          Banque Intemationale du Bukidna
BICIA        Banque Internaonale pour le Commerce, Ilndustrio et P'Agriculture
BND-N        Banque Nat!onale de Ddveloppement du Burkina
_RCB         Bureau de Recouvrement des craces du Burkina
CARFO        Caisse d'Autonme de Retraite des Foncdonnares
CB            Commission Bancaire de l'UMOA
C3C           Conseil BurknabE de Changes
CCA           Chambre de Commerce de l'Industre et de l'Artsa
CCP           Compte Cheques Postax
CNCA         Caisse National. de Credit Agricole
CNE          Caisse Nationale d'Epargne
CNSS         Caisse Nadonale de SecuritE Social.
EPIC          Etabissement Public a Caractre Ilstidel et Commercial
EPA          Etablissement Public I Caractere Admisratif
GOBF         Goverment of Burkna Fmo
MFP           emister des Fmances at fu Pla
MICM          Ministere de l'Industrio, du Commerce et des Mines
ONAC          Office Nationa du Commerce Extdrleur
PC           Pdvatization Commission
PID          Projet Insitonnel de Ddveloppme
SAL           Stuctural Adjustment Loan
SE            Societe dtM
SEM           Socit d'Economie Mbae
SGS           SociEtE Gdndrale de Surveillance
TSAIP         Tranmsport Sector Adjustment and Investmet Program
UMOA          Union Mondtaire Ouest Africaine
MCAL IAR
January 1 - Decber 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IBENAFASO
PRFV^ ATE Il=  SRAM  PltJC
himt and aroJec amua
IozcRs!fl.                 Government of Burkina Faso
BenefidareE:              Government agencies, support institutions and private
entepreneurs, banks and financial institutions.
Amount.                    SDR 5.1 million (US$ 7 million equivalent)
TA                         Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
OIklt    TNot applicable
F    ngaf  Pbn:            cmn US$ million)
Local Foreign Total
IDA          2.170 4.830  7.000
Government  12Q   380 LQ
Total        3.790 5.210 9.000
Economic Rate of RetuMn: Not applicable
Staff Anpralsal Report: No. 11567-BUR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by nicipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dis:losed without World Bank authorizaton.



MEMORANDUM AND RPECOMMENDATION OF THE PRE;IDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TH  EXECUTIVES DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO BURKINA FASO
FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR ASSMITANCE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendaion on a
proposed credit to the Goverment of Burkina Faso (GOBF) for SDR 5.1 million (US$ 7 million
equivalent), to help finance a technical assistance project in support of the development of the
private sector. The country strategy was discussed during by IDA's Board on February 4, 1992.
The credit would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years.
2.    Aud        . In the late 1980s, when Burkina Fass situan worsened as a result of
lagging fiscal revenues, growing budgetary constrits and macr-economic imftalances, the
Government realized the limits of its past interventionist approach and decided to prepare, with
the Bank and IMF assistance, an important economic adjustment program which it started to
implement in 1990. This program included far-reaching policy and regulatory reforms paving
the way to the development of private initiative in the economic arena. In addition to restoring
sound public finance management and macro-economic equilibria, this program aimed at (i)
removing the constraints to, and establishing an enabling environment for a rapid and efficient
expansion of the private sector; and, (ii) transfering to the private sector financial, commercial
and productive enterpd  of the public sector. To support the implementation of this policy
famework, the Bank approved in June 1991 a first Strcturca Adjustment Loan (SAL). Ihe
GOBF has, in addition, sought the Bank assistance to help it, through a recendy approved Public
Insttional Development project (PID), strengthen the budgetary and civil service manaement,
revise the legal framework relating to activities of the private sector and develop the skils of the
civil servans in preparing and implementing appropriate economic policies. Two other projects,
in agriculture (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan - AGSECAL) and in transport CIransport
Sector Adjustment and Investment Program - ISAIP), also recendy approved by the Bank are
expected to tackle the specific issues of these sectors.
3.    Despite the obstaces that it faced during the last decade, the private sector has proved
its vitality: very active in the formal as well as in the informal sector, it has made a significant
cotribution to Burkena's economy. Opporunies for fiuther development of private and foreig
investment exist, in particular in the areas of mining, agro-industries and services. In the context
of the SAL, major policy impediments to the development of the private sector are being
addressed: in addition to reforms of trade and pricing policies, improvements have begun to
materialize wit respect to the regulatory and legal environment of private enterprises. However,
to be in a position to fully take advantage of this reformed environment, private entrepreneurs
need assistance to strengthen their technical and managerial capacities and access to term-
financing to develop their operations and investments. Recent consultan reviews have shown
that neither the existing instittional support nor financial system can provide these services. The
Chambre de Commerce. de l'Industrie et de ;'Artisanat - CCIA), the Office National du
Commerce Ext_ieur - ONAC and the Caomk  Buridnabe des Chargum  - CBC, all Government
agencies, are the main isi ons in charge of providing assistance to private entrepreneurs in
the areas of management, production, marketing and ransportriion. They have been found to be
ineffective, occasionally redundant and burdened with tasks of a civil service nature which are
usualy carried out by the Government.  In the financial system, the resucturn  and
privatization of the five commercial banks Initiated under the SAL has yet to be completed and
overall financial intermediation strengtened through the development of financial instumen



-2-
capable of promoting investment financing. 'he GOBF has, therefore, prepared a stuae  to
strengthen the f cial nd support institions spelled out in a Policy Letter agreed on with IDA
(Annex  ) aiming at reorganizing, privatizing and strengthening the institonal support
framework while pursuing its process of divesdwre from public enterprises and financial
instiutions.
4.    Ioect Obleclyn. The main objective of this technical assistance project is to help
create, as a complement to the GOBF's far-reaching policy and regulatory reform program,
institutional and staff capacities capable of providing the support required for a sustainable growth
of the private sector. To this end, the project would assist the GOBP in: C') puruing the
implementtion of the measures initiated under the SAL, namely, the improvement of the
administrative services that it ought to provide to the private sector and the privtzaton of public
entprises and financial Institutions; (ii) rgzing the institutional support system to private
entrepreneurs by   sfrring the activities of civil service natr presSady performed by the
existing support institions to the Government and allocating all extension services to the CCIA
which would, then, be restructured, privatzed and strengthened; and, (Mii) initiating meaures to
strengthen overall fancial intmediation.
S.   ftWec£Dric tb. The proposed proiect would finance, over a four year time-period
consultants services, expert advise and the purchase of equipment to promote institutional
development. The project includes only measures that can effectively be completed during this
period. It has been designed with the active participation of the Government and the priate
sector, which have both recognized the need for reforms in the institutional framework for the
prmotion of private activities, througb working in cooperation with the Commision de
, a Government-Private sector consultative body established in September 1992.
his commission, the majority of which is comprised of representatives of the privat sector, has
for mandate to assist the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Mines (MICM) in supervising the
Implementation of the project and in evaluating its progress and results. The assistace to be
provided under this project would essnaly be of short-tm nue in order to help the project
nstituions become self-reliant over a definite period of tme. The prposed project, whose
estmated cost amounts to US$ 9 million equivalent would be supported by an IDA credit of US$
7 million equivalent. The Government's contribution amounts to US$ 2 million equivalent or
about 25% of the project cost. Detailed costs and financing tables are in ScheduA. Amounts
and methods of procurement are shown in ScbuWe B. A timetabic of key project processing
events and the staus of Bank Group operations in Burkina Faso are given in Schedules C W3M
respectively. In line with the objties described above, the project would consist of the
following dzcomponents:
(a)    Assb  Io Om MIM  (tlS$ 1.17 million). This component will finance short-
term technical assistance, training and equipment to help: O me oneQ)
windows of this ministry, in charge respectively of exal trade operations and
of the establishment of new private businesses, streamline and promptly
administr the procedures th  ar under their responsibility; and, (i) gm
Priviation Commission in efficiently carrying out the Government program for
divesting from public enterprises.
O)   Insatulonal SupprAt C     _9gat (JS$ 2.75 million). The purpose of this
component is to reorganize, privaie and stnen the support stuctu



(J)
-3-
comPrIS&I of the CCIA, the CBC and ONAC. Under thi component the project
would finance: M) lega advise to revise the statutes of the CCIA, prepare and
help implement the trasfer of CCIA's management to elected r vresentatives of
the privae sector; Qi) a stu y to redefie the mandate and functio, and
prepare accordingly the retucturing plans of CCIA, CBC and ONAC with a
view to allocating to the former all the tasks rdating to asstce to private
entrepneurs and to transferdng to the Governm   all the tasks of a civil
servc nature; Oii) techical sistance and traing to strengten CCIA cwacity
to adequately help private entepreneurs acquire the assistance that they need to
improve their operations; and, (iv) a stuy to rationalize the maageme  of the
bonded-warehousis and shipping equipment presently under CCIA and CBC
control and tecbnical assistance to help implement the studys reommendatons.
In addition, the project would help finance, through a restructured CCIA and on
matching grant basis, the cost of the technical aistance that the private
entreprenus need to improve their operations.
(c)   lDina l sector_omMt (US$ 810,000). During the life of the ptoject, the
Governmt wil pursue the privadzation of the commercial banks, a coisumer
credit instdton and an insue  company in which it is sUll the majority
shareholder. Ihe proposed project would finamce: (I) the services of an
investment banker to help the Ministry of Finance and Plan (MFP) stegthen its
capacity to negotiate the sale of financW institutions; (i) technical assistace and
equipment to enhance the proficiency of the DBreau de Recouremenr Ae
Creances du Burkina (BRCB), the collection agency established by the
Govemment to take over and collect the bad loans of the restucred banks; (
the updating, prior to their privatization, of the banks audits by independent
expers and the training of the staff of privatized financial institutions: (iv) a
study to ident  the conditions under which private investors and pritized
banks could establish new financial iatments more adapted to the development
of investment financing; (v) a study to prepare tne conversion of the postal
Checking and savings system (CoMg Cbbqes Postx and Caissg National
d'r   - CCPICNED into an independent financial instittion and technical
assistance to implement its recommendations; and, (vi) legal services to review
and make more efficient the legislation against the writing of bad checks and
delinquent debtors.
6.    Pr1= _1W_. Each government agency directly concemed by a componet
or sub-component of the project would be responsible for its implementation. The coordinaon
and overall management of the project will be the responsibility of the Minister of Industry,
Commerce and Mines who will be assisted by the Commission de C  mentioned earlier.
The Minister has officially delegated the day-to-day project coordination tasks to the head of the
Direction des Etudes et de la Pjanification of the MICM whose usual fimutions include the
coordination of all projects financed by exten  donors in which the ministry participates. The
executing agencies would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the part of the project
under their responsibility. They would prepare a semi-annual report that the project coordination
would consolidate into a report on overall project implementation to be submitted semi-annually
to the GOBF and to IDA. In order to allow a Detter evaluation of its progess, the project would
be implemented on the basis of annual work programs derived from the overall project
implementation planning. lhe work programs prepared for each year would be submitted to



-4-
1DA!s approval. They would Include an assessment of result achieved in the ruevious ye,
additional objecdves and criteia to be used for evaluation  f waranted, and a detaed
implemention timetable for the next year. 'Te work progms would also include a report on
the execution of the budget for the previous year and projections for the next. Finally, about =
yea  after project effectiveess, a mid-term review woud be joindy carried out by the
Government, the gnWssLAEde jQ      n  and IDA, to review the progms achieved towards
the project's objectives and identify, as needed, corrective measures to ensure succeUl
implementtion. This review would, in pardeular assess the performance of consulwns and
technical assistance finaced by the project
7.    .rWeet sabilit        h lbe proJect does not include the creation of any new lsttuton.
Rather, it focusses on: O) strngening key departments or institutions of the MICM and of the
MFP; and, (i1) reorganizing1privang support institutions. It would cotrbute to improve
government services and to build up prv  instistonal capabilities in delivering extensions
servces to private entrepre . It is expected, theefore, to have a long lasing effect on the
development of stong institutional capacities and of the private sector in Burktna
S.    Lesso lane fro  oreous MaNee.  Ile Public Instonal Development
project (311D) is the only tchnical assistance project and, beue it i not yet implemented, it
cannot provide lessons that the proposed project coud use. The prepraon and design of this
project is, theefore, based onhe Bas experierce and lessons learned from similar projects
in Sub-Sahar   Africa. Firstly, the TA proposed in the project will take place in a policy and
regulations emironent which is becoming, with the reforms of the SAL, conducive to a
sustainable development of the private sector. Secondly, project preparation has focussed on
enlist   Govement and prvate sector support for the objectives of the project through the
establishment of the Government/Private Sector Commissionde atiQn which was involved
in all stages of project preparation and is expected to play a major role in its implemenion as
well as in the periodic evaluation of its tesults. The objectives and the terms of refence of the
technicat assistance proposed in the project have been discussed very early in the project cycle
and agreed on during appraisal. hbirdly, the project would comcentrate on building the capacity
of exist  government and private instiuions rather than establishing new ones. Accordingly,
the TA provided by the project, with local consultant's input whenever possible, is of a short-
term natre in order to minimize incremental rerrnt costs as well as to ensure a transfer of
skills and knowledge to the staff of the project institutions. The training included in the project
will be delivered on-the-job ad wfll be tailored to the needs of the Institudons concerned.
Finally, carefl atention has been given to the identification of objectives that can be achieved
during the project period and of the key project indicators and evaluation criteria, described in
the Staff Appraisal Report, in order to allow a precise assessment of the project's progress and
results.
9.    Rationau for  AIDAs inlmen  The main thrs of the Country Assistance Strategy,
presened to IDA's Board on Febnrary 4, 1992, is to encourage a more effective use of public
resources, especially to advance human resources development and to support policies that wil
address long term challenges in the areas of social and institutional development. Tis strategy
aims also at reviving the growth of the private sector by e.zablisbing an instittional environment
conducive to private initiatve and investment Accordingly, the GOBF has adopted an approach
to libeization based on the divestiture from public enterprises and the reliance on the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth. The Bank supported this approach througb
projects aimed at introducing the reforms needed, at a global as well as at a sectoral level, to



-5 -
relieve policy and regulatory obstacles to the development of the private sector and, at the same
time, at transfetring to private investors the financial, industrial and commercial enterprises which
used to constitute the public entwprise sector. The Government has decided to take one more
step towards supporting the development of the private sector by helping it establish a private
titutional support stucture and flnancl institutions capable of providing private entrepreneurs
witi technical and financial assistance which are indispensable ingredients in enabling them to
take advantage of the reformed economic environment and expand their role In the economy.
Towards this end, it has proposed a prograw, spelled out in the Policy Letter mentioned earlier,
to strengtheal the financial and institutional framevork for private sector promotion. Tbe
proposed project would support the implementaion of this program which is fidly in line with
the Country Assistance Ste.
10.   Aetos agre. At a, agreement was reached on: (J) the Governmuent Policy
Letter for strengthening the financial and support instions; (i) the terms of refence for the
assistance to the two one-step-windows, the update of the banks' audits prior to theirpvatization
and for the establishment of the project accounting system; (iii) the arrangements for the project
coordination, the content of the ptoject implementation reports to be submitted semi-annualy to
IDA and the conditions of the mid-term review; and, (iv) standard consultant contracts and letter
of invittion to bid package and a list of international suppliers to be invited to bid for computers.
Before Board gresentatio, the Government is expected to agree on the terms of reference for the
banks audits discussed at negotiations. Before the project effectiveness it is expected to: O) have
completed the elections by private entrepreneurs of the members of the CCIA executive bodies;
(ii) issue the invitations to bid for the study to reorganize the structure comprised of CCIA, CBC
and ONAC; (Iii) adopt an Arrde giving to the BRCB the collection privileges of the Government
tax services; Ov) establish the project accouning system and recruit an independent auditor for
the project accounts. Dated covenants were also agreed for: (i) the official publication of an
additional list of enterprises to be privatized; ii) the submission to IDA's approval of action plans
to restructure the CCIA and rationalize the warehousing facilities of the CCIA and the CBC and
convert the CCP/CNE into a financial institution; and, (iii) the mid-term review and the
submission to IDA, prior to this review, of a report by independent consultants on the results
achieved by the project.
11.   Enirownental Asp=. This project has no direct eviroental impact and has been
categorized C.
12.    oecti Benefits and  isks. The proposed project will help the private sector respond
to the political and economic transition towards democracy and liberaization that is underway.
It will complement the policy and regulatory reform, as well as the Government divestit
process presently underway, in the context of a SAL and other Bank-supported sectoral projects.
It would help implement the Government strategy aimed at limitng its role in creatig an
environment conducive to the development of the private initiative in the economy, while
tranfering to the private sector a restuctured and strengthened instttion  suWort structmue
whose services are critical to private entrepreneurs. The specific benefits from the project would
consist of: (i) improved administratve services, in addition to the assistance already being
delivered to the Ministry of Finance and Planning by the PI) (Public Institutional Development
project), by streamlining procedures relating to exter  trade and to the establishment of new
enterpris; Ci) the establishment of an efficient and private insttitional support structre in
which the CCIA would play a central role in channeling and coordinating all local and foreign
assistance available to private entrepreneurs; and, Ciii) the deepening of financial intermediation,



-6-
particularly though aing the banks tat have been privatized and private invesors, to crema
finacial Instrumet more adapted to investment financing. Finally, by concerating on
tittional building, the project would creae, In the medium-tem, the local capacity which
would ensure a sustawnaNe development of the private sector.
13.   BIs.  The success of the proJect is conditioned by the progress achieved in
implementing the pivatzation of public enteprises and financial insttions. A setback in this
area would discourage the private sector and result in more difficUlty in implementing the
measures contained in this project. This risk is, however, mitigated by the Govement
commitment which has been rested in the seoond PFP expected to be agreed on in March 1993
with the Bank and the IMW. lhere is also the risk that the restructuring1privatization process
expected to take place during the project might lag and prove difficult to implement. Adequate
supervision, mostly at the onset of the project, along with the delivery of effective technical
assisance envisaged, of the project will be crucial in alleviatig this hazard. With regd to the
private sector, the business community might prove unable or unwilling, since no Investment
financing is proposed, to play a significan*- role in taking charge of the institional system
supportg private entrprn . However, contacts taken during project preparaon with
representatives of the private sector rsulted in the establishment of the GovernmenttPivate
Sector CommMdiofin decomprised mostly of highly respecd                   of the
business communiy. This coission actively participated in the preparation of the project and
its expected contibuton in overeeing the project implementation and seuation should sustan
the iterest of the private sector In the project
14.      .mqIdation I am satied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Ageemfit of the Assoation and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis Preson
President
Atachments
Washington; D.C.
P.ebruray 23, 1993



-7-
Schedle A
PIUNATE SECTOR AMWnAC P ,RC
FatiatedmPrjedt Cast and Enaud  Pi"
(n US$ OOOs)
Lad      Foregl           TM
Assistance to the MCM          2350            820       3170
Institutional Support component   -           2750       2750
Financial sector component       170           640        810
Project Coordinaton              550           1-,0       720
Refimd of PPF advance            280           230        510
Contigencies
Total                    3790          5210        9000
Ebnanin Pla
IDA                             2170          4830       7000
Government                                     SQ        2Q
Total                    3790          5210        9000



-8-
PRIATE SECTOR ASIRUAMC PROJECT
Amowts and Methods of Procurement
and % of diburments
Pocurewment Metiod
Project Elemen           LCD      LI                              % of
-  OthrITCostaI Disbrsemebt
(US $ OOOs)
1.       __   .                      1  810  1-          feto          100%
Equipments                        j(810)  [_10) 1
2. Consultancies
2.1 Studies                           -        2200     2200        100 %
i                  W (180w)   (180)
2.2 TechnicalAssistance     -         -        3100     3100        too%
L                                    .            (3100)   (3100)
2.3 Traning                 -         -        330       330        100 %
l ________________________                         (130)    (130)
3. Miscellaneous             __
3.1 Incremena               -         -        1750     1750        85%
Opeating costs:                             (350)    (350)
3.2 Communicadonss          -         -        300       300        85 %
________________________                      (300)     (300)
3.3 PPP refinaning          -         -        510       510
________  _   _________ __   .(510)                      (510)
Total                    -        810       8190      9000
___  (10)  (6190)  (7000)  _00
. =       -~(10   =-±9-       =.
Amoeso bi paren s 4an amoujwced by dh QedI
Operat  coats f ** p ivatIon Co_misio hbide al cost othwr 8ha   a, iL. Qfe ret NW
sa s ahlues, _abetec, tawprtt and trawl apesw  ad8efg apwense.
PmJect coordiatn advrtn epss



-9-
ERIAu5SECTOIR SSHffA= PROT
Dmetab        K of    Ee tEe
(a)    Time taken to prepae Project:    IEPS: 03/30190: 33 months
(b)    Projec prepared by:              Government, private sector, IDA
(c)    First mission:                   September 1991
(d)    PPF:                             June 1992
(e)    Appraisal mission: 1/            June/July 1992
M     Post appraisa mission:            November/December 1992
(g)    Plamed date of negodations:      February 1993
(h)   Planned date of effetiveness:     July 1993
(1)    Relevat PCRs and PPARs:          None
11    The appraisal mlo uw        s copre ofAem. C. A, fsson kader, Loop Brjba and
0. Bou  (AFJM).



-10.-                                     Schedule D
Page I of 2
IM  S:z 02/0/9t a 09.U5.02
a" dat ,t am30/of - 3         I         8 @1109/03)
or    w
-         -     --b                                                                                 lea
C,41t4
as C.d15a(g) alaes"                                                                     2*0.14
cueO-3S3) 'S96   WsoQa -A                                                                9.23      3.76 03131/93O2
S10*s0-       19M S     a  1   8                                                        ". 8S   21.60  6.80 06/30/93(
C41409-       lo0s    J       0 1AS0                                                    1  S4.60  11.30 07/3x/O 93(
02060o-80     196s   mo4a   1*80                  - AP.Mmmm                             17.00     10."0 0331104
C197900-      los8   WWW       O 128                AMC. '     0=                       42.00     16#l 12/31/04
42*670-U      1090   O         128o                 =2.20                                           i..t  03/ac/9s
0220m0-U      1s00    BW. 120 Wm4Ikvin 5N                                               16.80     14.57 12/21I0*
CL2440-U=    1991    WOM  *r8                       -I1 IV                              24.00     23.67 04/30/0
42610-=RtSU ) 1001.     80     =   s2               V                                   60.00 4So.2S 04/30/03
*    22860-U  1s9s    W       A28                   VW         som                      20.00    12.00 04/3/
*   03760-U        5902      mA   0w                    saw-me nu       &                   15.00     1.2z G31319
*    3910-U(S) 1092   00        . 12AS                 AO. so=                              80.00     20.32 12/1/
*    241440-US    I      S99S0 *A Mow 83c1                                                   7.SO      7.8"  04/30/0
11        w  @ter.t_  -  14                                                         .   304.13    *0.72
240L WA41 by   k a.                                                      05S.38
Am1s so2A
of uba Szwo42
*   Mt 010flO*.9
(8) S~dSqata.p82t/83V. .adnv and aOitst.
Zb. Slot A~Ma-" a- heal VAWGYmt* age Utartowa± wi., *A3 etbas w am ndtt va3m.
l>_XMAW  Pttstv, _tA CS-iv 4%fg4    M          M%6UAb"%MS_ OCU             dLt.LMd&   O  wa
TM3 ftdp    r 1
Sl5911g   t.tN  _m u41o.aqt ,1. am base   _               om   ezt eW            h    -.2*
g fu  tI ed 1* _ s _ 1 111e



- 11 -           Scheaule  D
Page 2 of 2
1.1  *j  ii             ii   isl I               
t~~~~~~~~~~~
HAJ~~~~~~~~~~~~
_~ *  I
_i     I a  I  J llfi~ 1111 a    
..am
-                                    9



Annex 1
- .                *Page 1 Of 8_
t24  10 FEV. 1993
A
Monsieur le Pr6sfdent de la Banque Mondiale
1818 H STREET NW WASHINGTON DC 20433
U. S. A
3bset: Declaration de poliffque
-de renforcement des Insti-
tutions Financieres et des
-nst'tutions d'Appui au
Secteur Prive.
Monsieur le President,
Dans le cadre de son Programme d'cAustement Structurel (PAS) mis en oeuvre en
1990, le Gouvernement du Burkdna Faso a retenu parmi les 616ments de sa strat6gie pour
lever les obstacles a la croissance 6conomlque A long terme du pays, de favoriser le
d6veloppement du secteur priv6 afin qu'll puisse pouer un rOle moteur dans 11conomie. 11 a,
en cons6quence, d6fIni un programme d'actfon pour alder le secteur priv6 a assumer cette
mission. Ce programme comporte quatre volets maJeurs: la mise en place d'un
environnement incitatif au d6veloppement de l'initiative priv6e et* la privatisation des
entreprlses publiques, la restructuration du systbme bancaire, la reformn de I'adminLstration
pour lul permettre de r6pondre de mani&re plus efficlents aux besoins de ce secteur et le
renforcement des Institutions d'appui & son d6veloppement. Les trols premlers volets de ce
programme ont commenc6 & 6tre mis en oeuvre avec l'assistance de la Banque Mondiale
-I.



-13-                              Page 2 Of 8
dans le cadre du PAS et du Projet de Developpement Institutionnel(PD1I). Le dernier volet qui
conceme les Insftiutions d'appui sera, avec la continuation de la restructuratlon des banques
et son dlargissement aux institutions financitres non-bancalres, I'objet principal du projet pou.
liquel le Gouvernement d6sire recevoir I'assistance de la Banque Mondiale.
1/ - Objectife et Strat6gles du Projet
Le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso est d'avis que le secteur priv6 dolt 8tre amene A
prendre progressivement en charge son propre developpement. C'est a dire qu'A terme tl doit
pouvoir foumir aux entrepreneurs priv6s l'assistance financiere et technique dont ils ont besoln
pour rendre teurs entreprises plus performantes et pour favoriser le d6veloppement de
nouveaux Investissements. C'est pourquoi le but ultime que le Gouvemement attache au plan
de d6veloppement du systeme d'appui au secteur priv6 est de mettle a ia disposition de ce
secteur les moyens qui lul permettront d'atteindre eot objectif. Pour cela, il d6sire entreprendre
une restructuration des Institutions d'appul existantes en vue de:
- r6aeffecter & I'Etat les fonctions a caractere administratif ou do service public et de
maniere progressive les autres foncffons au secteur priv6;
- rendre ces Institutions pleinement repr6sentatives du secteur prlv6.
If envisage aussi d'encourager la cr6ation de m6canismes susceptibles de favoriser
le d6veloppement des investissements prives. Le Gouvemement souhaite donc financer des
missions temporaires d'experts natfonaux et 6trangers pour alder a prsparer et mettre en
oeuvre, de concert avec les repr6sentants du secteur priv6, des plans permettant d'atteindre
ees objectifs.
Le Gouvernement souhaite mettre en place un systeme d'appul au secteur priv6
constltue d'institutions repr6sentatives du secteur priev capables de devenir, A terme,
techniquement et financi6rement auto-suffisantes. Ce systbme devrait 6tre b&ti, pour des
raisons de cost et d'utilisation efficace des moyens mateiels et humains, d'abord a partir de
la restructuration d'lnstituflons existantes (la possibilit6 d'encourager la cr6ation ult6rieure
.1.



-14-                               Page 3 of j
d'autres Institutions, n'6tant. A priori pas 6cart6e). Lassistance dexperts nationaux et
intemationaux que le Gouvernement est dispose a financer avec les moyens du projet, pour
lequel if sollicite i'appul de la Banque Mondiale, devra repondre aux critbres qu'il s'est fix6 en
accord avec les baHileurs de fonds.
Elle devra etre temporaire et sas resultats devront etre 6valu6s. Cela Implique pour
ces institutions que dans un dMlal raisonnable : cette assistance aboutisse a la mise en place
de systemes de gestion ad6quats et & la formation de leur personnel afin qu'ils solent a m6me
de maltrdser ces systbmes; et, des m6canismes solent mis en oeuvre pour qu'elles deviennent
financierement independantes. Cela implique aussi qu'elle devra donner lieur a des
evaluations periodiques afin de s'assurer qu'elle sert convenablement l'objet pour lequel elle
a ete accord6e.
Le C-ouvernement souhaite aussi assainir les institutions financTsres du pays afin do
restaurer un cilmat sain d'intermrdiation financiere qui favoriserait le financement des
investissements priv6s. A cette fin 11 envisage de continuer et d'achever la restructuration des
banques et leur privatisation. 11 envisage 6galement d'avaluer les institutions financieres non-
bancaires afin d'identifier les mesures a prendre, les cas ech6ant. pour renforcer leur situation
financJ6re et leur gestion.
2/- Le Programme d'Actlon
Afin de pouvoir definir un plan d'action en vue de mettre en oeuvre la strat6gie et
d'atteindre les objectifs mentionn6s pr6c6demment, le Gouvemement a commlsslonnM une
revue des deux principaux systbmes d'appui & 1'entreprise prlvde: le systeme d'appui
institutionnel qui doit lul apporter conseil, assistance et formation pour d6velopper ses
op6rations et son expansion et les institutions financieres qui doivent I'aider a financer ses
activit6s et ses investissements. C'est sur la base des conclusions et recommandations de
ces deux 6tudes qui ont 616 present6es, avec la participation de la Banque Mondiale, en Juin
1992 aux repr6sentants des op6rateurs priv6s nationaux que le Gouvemement a 6iabor6 un
programme d'action. Depuis, dans le souci d'assurer le succes de ce programme, iI a pris
l'initiative d'y associer largement le secteur prive. Pour cela, il a cr66 en septembre 1992, une
.



- 15-                          Page 4 of S
Commission de Concertation Etat-prives placee aupr6s du MInistere de l'Industrie, du
Commerce et des Mines ob les representants du secteur priv sont majoritaires pour suivre
la preparation, I'execution et l'valuatfon periodique de ce programme.
2.1 J - Les Institutions d'Appul.
Trols institutions devraient jouer un role majeur dans les operations et le
developpement du secteur priv: la Chambre de Commerce, d'lndustrle et d'Artisanat (CCIA)
dont le but est de fournir aux entrepreneurs prives l'assistance et l'encadrement dont is ont
besoin et d'assurer la defense de leurs interets; rOffice National du Commerce Extefieur
(ONAC) charge de promouvoir leurs exportations; et le Consell Burkinabe des Chargeurs
(CBC) dont le ro!e est primordial pour assurer la maitrise des conditions et    des cots de
transport qui jouant ur5 r6le critiqL:e dans I'economie du pays. L'etude mentionnde
pr6c6demment a r6vel6 que leurs missions, structures et statuts devraient etre red6finis pour
tenir compte de la nouvelle politique liberalisation economique du pays et, pour certaines
comme le CBC, de l'evolution de l'environnement intemational dans le domaine ou elles
operent. Le Gouvernement s'est donc fixe comme tache d'entreprendre, conformement & la
strat6gle mentionn6e plus haut, les actions n6cessaires pour restructurer ces institutions afin
de mettre a la disposition du secteur prive un appui institutionnel capable de l'accompagner
dans son developpement.
Les objectifs de cette tAche ont largement 6t6 expos6s aux repr6sentants du secteur
priv6 Burkinabe. Ils consistent & revoir les fonctions de ces Institutions pour resttuer a l'Etat
les missions A caractere administratif qu'elles assument actuellement et transf6rer,
progressivement au secteur priv6 celles qul correspondent a des services directs aux
operateurs 6conomiques. Les prestations de ces insfitutons qui ont un caractere de service
public pourralent etre soit reprises par l'Etat soit sous-traitees par celul-ci avec ces institutions
restructur6es dans des conditions A definir avec elles. Pour cela le Gouvernement entend
r66valuer ces Institutions et preparer des plans de restructuration r6pondant & ces objectifs.
Ceci implique d'abord que la CCIA retrouve son statut d'organisme consulaire. Ensuite
qu'elle re9oive de l'assistance pour pouvoirjouer son r6le d'interprete du secteur priv6 auprbs
/..



-16-                         Page 5 of 8
du Gouvemement, de catalyseur des aides au secteur prive qui sont disponibles et do
formation d'assistance A I'entrepreneur privO. Enfin les missions du CBC et de l'ONAC
devraient etre revues dans le mame esprit.
Afin de progresser dans la vole de l'instauration d'un cadre incitatif au developpement
du secteur prive, le Gouvernement envisage de simplifier les proc6dures administratives
requises pour cr6er de nouvelles entreprises ou transformner celles qui existent. A cet effet,
11 a mis en place deux guichets uniques : l'un pour l'ex6cution des formalites pour les
investissements et l'autre pour celles relatives aux importations. Le Gouvemement se propose
maintenant de renforcer leurs moyens d'action par une assistance ad6quate.
Le Ministere de l'lndustrie, du Commerce et des Mines (MICM) a d6cide d'adapter son
organisation aux chanrements Intervenus ou A Intervenir dans ses fonctions du fait des
changements dorientation economique du pays. Il a aussi d6cidi de se doter d'outils de
gestion qui lul permettront de suivre et d'analyser efficacement les performances de l'industrie
et du commerce et de pr6pareriles.mesures incitatives appropri6es A leur d6veloppement. A
cette fin II a requis l'assistance du PNUD pour conduire un audit institutionnet. 11 souhaite
aussi que.dans:le cadre.du projetde.d6veloppementdes institUonsfinancieres etd'appui au
secteur priv6-une etude solt:confi6e tides consultants afin de definir les instruments les plus
adaptes au sulvi et a la prvilsion de l'activit6 6conomique dans les domalnes de l'industfie
et du commerce.
2.2/- Les Institutions Flnancl4res
Les institutions financibres du Burkina Faso comprennent les banques et des
institutions non-bancaires que sont les etablissements financiers, les compagnies d'assurance
et les institutions d'6ipargne contractuelle. Dans ce domaine le Gouvemement s'est donnh
comme objectifs : d'assainir les institutions qul ont des difficult6s et d'ouvrir leur capital A la
participation majoritaire du priv6 national et 6tranger; de les aider A se doter de moyens de
gestion adapt6s & leurs objectifs, et, de prendre les mesures necessaires A amnliorer les
conditions de recouvrement de leurs cr6ances.
.1



- 17 -                         Page 6 of 8
Depuis I'adoption du prograrrme d'ajustement structurel appuy6 par les bailleurs de
fonds, en particulier par la Banque Mondiale, le Gouvernement a entrepris d'assainir et de
privatiser le systeme bancaire.
En 1991, des mesures financibres importantes ont et6 prises pour restructurer les
bilans des banques qui avalent accumui6 des actifs lmproductifs menagant leur 6quilibre
financier. Le Gouvemement a aussi entrepris la recherche d'investlssements prives pour
reduire sa propre participation dans leur capital a un maximum de 25 %. Les actions de
privatisation se sont averees difficiles a r6aliser dans les d6lals prevus, mals le Gouvemement
entend poursuivre ses efforts afin d'achever la privatisation su systeme bancalre comme il s'y
etait engag6 dans le cadre du PAS.
Tout en poursuivant l'objectif mentionn6 precedemment, le Gouvemement d d6cid6
de faire proceder & une evaluation pr6cise de la faiblesse de la situation financiere des
banques et 6tablissements financiers afin de pouvoir y remddier convenablement. Pour cela,
I'6valuation de leur situation financiere qui a 6te faite par la Commission Bancaire de l'UMOA
est en train d'etre revue par des consultants de la Banque Mondiale pour d6termriner si des
audits complementaires sont n6cessalres. Au moment de leur privatisatlon et apres
n6gociations avec leurs nouveaux actionnalres, des plans de restructuration firianciere seront
ensuite 6labor6s pour chaque banque et etablissement financier ob l'Etat est majoritaire. Ces
plans ne seront mis en oeuvre, cependant, qu'apres accord de la Banque Mondiale. Les
banques et 6tablissements financiers qui n'auront pu etre privatis6s et dont la viabilit6
financiere n'est pas assur6e seront liquid6s.
Afin de les preparer & etre eligibles dans le futur aux lignes de cr6dit que la Banque
Mondiale pourrait m.ettre a leur disposition, les banques et 6tablissements financiers qui le
d6sirent seront soumis a un audit institutionnel afin de d6celer leurs eventuelles falblesqs de
gestion. Ces instdtutions pourront ensuite ben6ficier d'une assistance de la Banque Mondiale
pour former leur personnel et se doter de procedures de gestion ad6quates.
Les institutions d'epargne contractuelle et les institutions financieres non bancaires
seront aussi renforcees. Les premieres qul sont la Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale et
.1,



- 18-                             Page 7 of 8-
la Caisse de Retralte (CARFO) feront l'objet, comme cela a e  convenu dans le PAS,
d'1tudes actuarielles afin d'identffier les mesures aptes A assumer leur sant6 financiere A long
terme.
Les compagnies d'assurance, seront elles soumises aux dispositions du recent traltW
sur l'int6gratfon du march6 des assurances au sein de la zone Franc.
Dans le cadre du PAS, le Gouvemement s'etalt engage a assainir et restructurer les
Cheques Postaux et la Caisse Nationale d'Epargne (COP/CNE) qui constituent un reseau
indispensable 6 la collecte de la petite 6pargne. La restructuration envisag6e devrait etre
basee sur les principes suivants: d'une deconnexion des flux des CCP/CNE de ceux du
Tr6sor; -t; de la separation de leurs flux financiers de ceux de l'Office National des Postes
dont lis font partie & I'heure actuelle afin d'eviter que les CCP/CNE ne financent I'activite
postale. Une premibre evaluation des flux financiers des, CCP/CNE a et6 faite. Un audit
complet de leur situation financiore sera entrepris incessamment La restructuration des
COP/CNE pose cependant un probl6me, qui est maintenant d6battu A I'6chelle internationale,
dO au fait qu'lls ont au depart ete concus uniquement comme Instrument de collecte de
i'4pargne et non comme Institution financiere.
Le Gouvemement a donc d6cide de faire entreprendre une 6tude de restructuratfon
des CCP/CNE en vue de les transformer, selon les principes mentionn6s precedemment, en
une institution financile, qui au sein de l'ONP, confinuera a mobiliser la petite epargne et
pourrait, dans des conditions A pr6ciser, faire du cr6dit a ses d6posants. Cette 6tude
examinera aussi les derniers d6veloppements sur le plan internatonal en matiere de statuts
et role des r6seaux COP/CNE. Elle fera, en tenant compte de la reglementation de l'UMOA,
les recommandations eventuelles a mettre en oeuvre pour que les CCP/CNE du Buridna Faso
s'adaptent a l1'volution d'institutions similaires dans le monde.
Pour garantir la performance future des institutions financieres qui accordent des
cr6dits au secteur priv6, le Gouvemement a d6cid6 de prendre les mesures n6cessaires pour
liminer les obstacles r6glementaires qu'elles peuvent rencontrer dans le recouvrement de
leurs cr6ances. Ces mesures visent A sanctionner les debiteurs r6calcitrants.
J./



-19-                               Page 8 of 2
Elles vont consister en un renforcement de la lo! sur les impayes bancalres et les chbques
sans provisions et l'incorporation dans le code penal de sanctions a I'egard de ceux qui
tenteralent de soustraire leurs actifs aux poursuites de leurs cr6anciers.
Le Gouvernement a ddcid6 de les faire pr4parer et mettre en oeuvre par le ComitM
Directeur pr6vu a cot effet dans le projet de developpement Institutionnel. Les modifications
envisag6es devront etre conformes aux dispositions r6glementalres en vigueur dans l'UMOA
et. dans la mesure oCi elles se concrdtisent dans un delai compatible avec l'urgence de
r6soudre ce probleme, aux orientations des projets communautaires pr6sentement a I'etude.
Enfin, en vue d'acc6l6rer le recouvrement des creances cedees au BRCB dans le
cadre de l'assainissement des banques, le Gouvemement a decide de doter celul-ci de
moyens n6cessaires. 11 lui a ddja donne les privilges du Tr6sor en matiere de recouvrement.
11 envisage maintenant d'informatiser ses op6rations et sa comptabilite et de former son
personnel aux techniques de recouvrement avec I'assistance fournie par le projet.
Telles sont, Monsieur le President, les grandes lignes de la politique que mon
Gouvemement compte suivre pour faire des institutions financilres et des Institutions d'appui
de veritables outils de d6veloppement du secteur priv6 au Burkina Faso.
Je reste convaincu que par votre disponibilite constante a appuyer les efforts de
d6veloppement, mon pays b6n6ficiera de la part de votre institution, de toute l'assistance
n6cessalre pour la mise en oeuvre des mesures envisagdes.
Veuillez croire. Monsieur le Pr6sident, a l'assurance de ma tres haute consideration.
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'~~Y



