Page  1
January 27, 1994
S.E. Monsieur Ousmane Ouedraogo 
Ministre d'Etat, Ministre des Finances et du Plan 
Ministere des Finances et du Plan 
B. P. 7050 
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Excellency:
BURKINA FASO: Credit 2472-BUR -Private Sector Assistance Project
Amendment
We refer to the above-mentioned Credit Agreement for the Private Sector 
Assistance Project between the Republic of Burkina Faso (the Borrower) and the 
International. Development Association (the Association) dated July 15, 1993, and 
discussions held between the Ministry of Industry and the Association, confirmed by 
your telex dated January 28, 1994, in which the declaration of effectiveness of said 
Credit Agreement has been sought and a new disbursement condition proposed.
We are pleased to confirm the Associations' willingness to follow these 
proposals and therefore agree to amend the Credit Agreement as follows:
(1)
Paragraph (a) of Section (6.01) is deleted and the subsequent paragraphs are 
renamed accordingly;
(2)
Subsection (b) of Paragraph (3) of Schedule (1) to this Agreement is deleted and 
replaced by the following subsection:
"(b)
expenditures under Category (1) (a) of the table in Paragraph (1) of this 
Schedule, 
unless (i) the election of the first Assemblee Consulaire referred 
to under Part (B. 1) of 
the Project has been completed; (ii) the action plan 
referred to in Paragraph (2) (a) (H) of 
Schedule (4) to this Agreement, 
in respect of CCIA, has been fully implemented; and (iii) 
proposals for the matching grant formula and other incidental arrangements under Part 
(B. 5) 
of the project have been submitted to, and approved by, the 
Association."
All other provisions of the Development Credit Agreement as amended hereby shall 
remain in force.
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the confirmation form on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us, 
while keeping the original for your records.
This amendment will become effective as of the date of confirmation of your 
agreement as indicated hereafter.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa Region
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Jacques Y. SAWADOGO
Authorized Representative
Page  2
