OFFICIAL
DWCIN T  f-S
CREDIT NUMBER 2472 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Assistance Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated               I, 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2472 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      7      /J              , 1993, between
BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) Vand INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a
letter, dated February 10, 1993, coupled with a supplemental letter,
dated February 19, 1993, describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to promote the development of the private
sector in the Borrower's territory (hereinafter referred to as "the
Program");
(B)   the Borrower has declared    its commitment to    the
execution of the Program, and has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "BFCI" means Bangue pour le Financement du Commerce et
de 1'Industrie;
(b)  "BNDB" means Banque Nationale de D6veloppement du
Burkina;


﻿-2-.
(c) "BICIA" means Banque Internationale pour le Commerce,
l'Industrie et 1'Agriculture;
(d)  "BRCB" means Bureau de Recouvrement des Cr6ances du
Burkina;
(e)  "CBC" means Conseil Burkinab6 des Chargeurs;
(f) "CCIA" means Chambre de Commerce de l'Industrie et de
l'Artisanat;
(g)  "CCP"' means Comptes Ch4ques Postaux;
(h)  "CFA Franc" or "CFAF" refers to the currency unit of the
Borrower;
(i)  "CNE" means Caisse Nationale d'Eparzne;
(j) "MFP" means Minist6re des Finances et du Plan;
(k)  "MICM" means Minist6re de 1'Induntrie, du Commerce et des
Mines;
(1) "mid-term review" means the mid-term review referred to
in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)  "MJ" means Ministare de la Justice;
(n)  "ONAC" means Office National du Commerce Ext6rieur;
(o) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a first letter of agreement, dated June 5, 1992, as
amended by a second letter of agreement, dated February 12, 1993,
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(p) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred- to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shal' promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) Ths Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate :o be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿-4-
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates *n which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the aci.-ual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2003 and ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿-5-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project through MICM, Part C.1 through C.4 thereof through MFP, and
Part C.5 thereof through NJ, with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain,  until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-7-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with   the  procedures  and   internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
(b) the Association has concluded, in the course of the mid-
term review, that:
(i)   the action plan referred to in paragraph 2 (a)
(ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in respect
of CCIA, has not been satisfactorili implemented;
or
(ii)    the Borrower has failed to achieve satisfactory
progress in the achievement of all or any of the
other   monitorable  objectives   specified   in
paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; or


﻿-8-
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the election of the first Assemblee Consulaire referred
to under Part B.1 of the Project has been completed;
(b) the Borrower has issued letters of invitation in respec
of the study referred to under Part B.2 of the Project;
(c) the Borrower has introduced appropriate legislation to
confer effectively upon BRCB the same privileges with regard to debt
recovery as those which apply to the tax services; and
(d) the Borrower has established an accounting system for the
Project, which shall be acceptable to the Association, and has
recruited independent auditors to audit the Project accounts in
accordance with the requirements of Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Plan
B.P. 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
BURKINA PASO
By jj Y0u~T/~o
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /J/ EdWWvd                     Presldent
Regional Vic President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allo-tation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Consultancy                                 100%
services and
studies:
(a) under Parts B.4           1,370,000
and B.5 of the
Project
(b) other                     1,600,000
(2) Training                       110,000       100%
(3) Vehicles and                  500,000        100%
equipment
(4) Operating costs               400,000         85%


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Refunding of                  370,000       Amounts due
Project                                     pursuant to
Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                     of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                   750,000
TOTAL                      5,100,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs"
means the incremental operating costs arising under the Project on
account of travel costs and allowances, office rent, supplies and
utilities, maintenance of vehicles and fuel, and advertising and
communications costs.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)   expenditures under category (1) (a) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless (i) the action plan referred to
in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, in respect
of CCIA, has been fully implemented; and (ii) proposals for the
matching grant formula and other incidental arrangements under Part
B.5 of the Project have been submitted to, and approved by, the
Association.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to help create an
institutional environment capable of providing the support required
to ensure sustainable growth of the private sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Assistance to MICM
1.    Enhancing the capacity of MICM to respond to the requirements
of the private sector, by strengthening the capacity of two newly-
established guichets uniques responsible for external trade and
establishment of new businesses, respectively.
2.    Support for the implementation of the divestiture program, and
the process of evaluation of enterprises which are due to be
privatized.
Part B:     Institutional Support
1.    Commissioning of a study to prepare for the privatization of
WXIA and, in particular, (i) to review the rules governing
membership of CCIA, the composition of the Assemblfe Consulaire and
the election of its members, and the appointment of executive
officers, and (ii) to revise the statutes of CCIA and prepare the
election of the first Assemblfe Consulaire.
2.    Commissioning of a study designed to streamline the functions
of CCIA, ONAC and CBC, by limiting such functions to those that are
properly within the competence of such institutions and eliminating,
in particular, those that belong to the central government; and,
subject to the findings of such study, implementation of restruc-
turing plans for CCIA and, if appropriate, for ONAC and CBC.
3.    Commissioning  of  a  study  designed  to   rationalize  the
management of the infrastructures of CCIA and CBC.


﻿- 14 -
4.    Provision of short-term assistance to CCIA to enable it to (a)
establish a data base to record all available local and foreign
sources of assistance to improve private enterprise operations, help
entrepreneurs carry out feasibility studies and, if need be, obtain
financial support to create new enterprises, (b) strengthen its
capacity to evaluate entrepreneurs' needs in terms of technical
assistance, and (c) follow-up and assess the results of assistance
received with its help by private entrepreneurs.
5.    Provision of assistance on a matching-grant basis to private
entrepreneurs.
Part C:     Financial Sector
1.    Strengthening the capacity of MFP to evaluate and negotiate
investors' proposals to buy critical public enterprises and
financial institutions, and provision of assistance to BCRB to
strengthen its capacity for debt collection.
2.    Updating by independent auditors of the audits of banks.
3.    Commissioning of a study to prepare an action plan to convert
the CCP/CNE into an independent financial institution operating
within the postal system.
4.    Commissioning of a study to identify appropriate conditions
for the creation of new and viable long-term instruments for
investment financing.
5.    Commissioning of a study to review existing legislation and
procedures relating to bad cheques and debt recovery, and make
proposals with a view to streamlining such legislative provisions
and procedures.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and "onsultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Equipment required under the Project, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $680,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of
qualified suppliers acceptable to the Association and eligible under
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items required under category (4) of the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Operating
costs) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the


﻿- 16 -
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review or
approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single-
source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Bank, and to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall make adequate annual budgetary allocations
to finance the operations of the Privatization Commission with
effect from June 30, 1994.
2.    The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than June 30, 1994, submit to the Association
for its approval:
(i)    a proposed action plan, acceptable to the
Association, for purposes of Part C.3 of the
Project, and
(ii)    proposed  action  plans,   acceptable  to  the
Association, for the restructuring of CCIA, and
for the rationalization of the management of
CCIA's and CBC's warehousing facilities; and
(b)   have each of the action plans referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph implemented in accore:ance with the
timetable and other modalities set forth in such action plan and
approved by the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its review
and comments, not later than June 30, 1994, the findings of the
study referred to under Part C.4 of the Project.
4.    (a)   The  Borrower  and   the  Association  shall   jointly
undertake, not later than June 30, 1995, a mid-term review of the
Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on all
matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement, including,
but not limited to: (i) progress achieved in the implementation of
Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) the number of public enterprises
privatized or liquidated; (iii) the extent to which CCIA has been
transformed to become genuinely representative of the private
sector; (iv) the status of implementation of the study and
restructuring plans referred to under Part B.2 of the Project, in
respect of CCIA, ONAC and CBC; and (v) the extent of compliance by
the Borrower with the accounting, auditing and procurement
procedures specified under the Project.


﻿- 18 -.
(b)   Not later than one month prior to the mid-term review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for review an
independent consultant's report, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project,
and giving details, in particular, of the matters to be addressed at
the mid-term review and referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this
paragraph.
(c)   Following the mid-term review, the Borrower undertakes
to act promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of
the objectives of the Project.
(d)   Without limitation to the preceding sub-paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) of this paragraph, the Borrower shall, throughout the
period of implementation of the Project, submit to the Association,
(i) for its approval, not later than November 30 of each year,
annual work programs, giving an assessment of the achievements of
the Project for the preceding year, the additional objectives and
criteria, if any, to be used for evaluation, and the implementation
timetable for the forthcoming year, including a report on the
execution of the budget for the past year and budget projections for
the forthcoming year, and (ii) for its review and comments, bi-
annual reports on the progress of implementation of the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary under the
Borrower's national laws, the Borrower shall, in respect of all
goods and services to be financed under the Credit, confer upon MICM
full powers to supervise the issue of letters of invitation and
proceed to the evaluation and final award of all contracts, in
accordance with evaluation criteria and procedures acceptable to the
Association.
6.    The Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 1994, publish a
list, acceptable to the Association, of all public enterprises to be
privatized during the period of implementation of the Project.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent of CFAF 100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Scheedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exreed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 20 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions     of paragraph  3   of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn    amount of the    Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with\ respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 21 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


