Report No. 1401a-ES                                                                FILE  COPY
El Salvador
Second Urban Development Project
April 4, 1977
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =  ¢ 2.50
Colones (¢)  =  US$0.40
SDR 1        =  e 2.714
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)       =    10,000 Square meters (2.470 Acres)
I Square vara        =    0.699 Square meters
1 Square meter       =    1.43 Square varas = 10.76 Square Feet
I Manzana (mz)       =    10,000 Square varas (0.699 Hectares)
1 Meter              =    3.28 Feet
1 Kilometer (kin)    =    0.62 Miles
1 Liter         3    =    0.26 US gallons
I Cubic meter (m )   =    264 US gallons, or 1,000 liters
1 lSd                =    1 liter per capita per day
I m /sec             =    1 cubic meter per second
ABBREVIATIONS /ACRONYMS
ANDA          Administracion Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados
(National Water Authority)
CABEI         Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAESS         Compania de Alumbrado Electrico de San Salvador
(Private Power Company)
CLESA         Compania Luz Electrica de Santa Ana
(Private Power Company)
CLES          Compania Luz Electrica de Sonsonate
(Private Power Company)
DAE           Direccion Acquitectura Educativa (within Ministry of Education)
DUA           Direccion General de Urbanismo y Arquitectura
(Zoning and Regulating Department)
FEDECREDITO   Federacion de Cajas de Credito
(Federation of Credit Cooperatives)
FIGAPE        Fondo Industrial para Guarantia a Pequenas Empresas
(Industrial Guaranty Fund for Small Enterprises)
Fondo Social  Fondo Social Para la Vivienda
(Workers Housing Fund)
FNV           Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Finance Agency)
FOCCO         Direccion General de Fomento y Cooperacion Comunal
(Department of the Ministry of the Presidency)
FSVM          Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima
(Salvadorean Foundation for Development and Low-Cost Housing)
IDRC          International Development Research Center
INSAFOCOOP    Government Cooperative Assistance Institution
Ivu           Instituto de Vivienda Urbana
MSS           Metropolitan San Salvador
OAS           Organization of American States
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY        ........................     .........................       i-iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ....... ................             .....................         1
II.   BACKGROUND ..............................................                      1
A.  Major Urban Problems  ................................                    2
B.  The First Bank Project  .....         ...............                     3
III.   THE PROJECT .............................................                      5
A.   Scope and Objectives  ................................                    5
B.  Description .........................................                     6
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS  .....             ........................      14
AA.  Serviced Sites (FSVM)  ..............        ..     ...............     15
B.  Upgrading  (IVU) .................        ..      ..................     17
C.   Small Business Extension Scheme (FEDECREDITO)  .......                  19
D.   Implementation Schedule .............         ..     ..............     20
V.   COSTS, FINANCING AND RECOVERY ...........................                    20
A.   Project Costs .......................................                   20
B.  Financing Plan ......................................                    22
C.   Procurement and Disbursement  ........................                  23
D.  Cost Recovery  .......................................                   24
VI.   JUSTIFICATION ...........................................                     32
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................................                    33
This report was prepared by Ms. D. Haldane, Messrs. G. Gattoni (URB),
and D. Hellinger (consultant) with assistance from M. Arbell (LCP-DFC),
H. Wehner, D. Coleman and Z. Shiftan (consultants). The education and
training component was prepared by Mr. L. Wolff (LAC-Ed). Sketches by
Mr. D. Gage.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1. Executing Agencies
A. The Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima (FSVM)
B. The Federacion de Cajas de Credito (FEDECREDITO)
2. Project Costs
3. Small Business Extension Scheme
4. Detailed Features--Serviced Sites
5. Land Acquisition
6. Water Supply in San Salvador
7. Pilot Upgrading Program
8. Economic Justification
9. Disbursement
10. Basic Data
CHARTS
1. Implementation Schedule
A. Serviced Sites (WB 16677)
B. Upgrading (WB 16668)
2. Layouts
A. Plot Upgrading Project (IBRD 12514)
B. Serviced Sites (IBRD 12513)
3. Organizational Charts
A. Federacion de Cajas de Credito (WB 16455)
B.  Fundacion Salvadorena de Vivienda Minima (WB 16457)
C. Community Organization (WB 16621)
D. Ministry of Education (WB 16669)
E. Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (WB 16860)
4. Project Affordability (WB 16657)
MAPS
1. El Salvador - Project Locations (WB 12510)
2. Metropolitan San Salvador (WB 12511)
3. Secondary Cities (IBRD 12512)



EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        This project is the second urban development loan to El Salvador
developed in response to Government requests for Bank assistance in programs
to achieve a better balance in urban land and income distribution paralleling
similar recent initiatives in rural areas. Because of the country's small
size, rapid growth and limited potential for major agricultural diversifica-
tion, urbanization is expected to constitute a key feature in the country's
"National Transformation" policy to guide economic growth over the next
decade. The most pressing urban problems involve intractable un- and under-
employment, a highly skewed income curve, and severe deficiencies in shelter
and services. Nearly three-quarters of the population in the four principal
cities reside in unauthorized and unserviced settlements.
ii.       A first Bank-assisted project approved in November 1974 has been
relatively successful in meeting its stated objectives to demonstrate the
suitability of the serviced site and self-help approach to shelter provision
and significantly expand the production capacity of the Executing Agency--
The Fundacion Salvadorena de Vivienda Minima (FSVM). About 3,000 units have
been developed to date within targeted cost levels. Design changes in the
second project should eliminate problems being encountered with respect to
land acquisition and water supply.
iii.      The second project places greater emphasis on improving economic
opportunities as well as physical conditions through better access to land,
credit and technical skills for the urban poor. It reflects experience
gained under the first loan with respect to serviced site development and
incorporates several new features. Living conditions will be improved and
secure tenure provided in an unauthorized settlement as a pilot to a larger
upgrading program currently under preparation. The pilot will provide ex-
perience on a number of key design features such as tenure arrangements,
mutual-help response, organization and staffing and will be the vehicle of
continuing discussion between the Government and the Bank regarding policy
and implementation arrangements for the subsequent program. Experimental
efforts to create employment under the first loan will be expanded and placed
within a permanent institutional base. Borrowing costs for small entrepre-
neurs will be significantly lowered through credit availability from normal
institutional channels and technical skills will be sharpened. The FSVM's
annual development capacity for serviced sites will be increased from 1,500
to about 2,300 units.
iv.       The project comprises three interrelated components and relevant
technical assistance:



- ii -
Serviced Sites: Development of 8,000 owner-built dwell-
ings on serviced plots, including construction of related
trunk infrastructure, schools, clinics, community centers,
markets, sports fields and construction loans for com-
pleting and expanding units. The range of service lev-
els will be broadened to include both more complete and
more basic units with an overall shift toward lower costs.
The weighted average unit price of the four service levels
will be about US$1,240 compared to a current cost of
US$1,800 under the first loan or about US$200 and US$300
respectively per capita.
Pilot Upgrading: Improvement of living conditions of 800
households in an unauthorized settlement through provision
of secure tenure, basic infrastructure, community facili-
ties and credit for dwelling improvements. Costs for
basic improvements will be about US$300 per household
or about US$50 per capita reflecting simpler servicing
standards than in serviced site areas. Loans will be
available for an experimental intermediate sanitation
unit which, if successful, may be introduced into ser-
viced site areas in lieu of more expensive waterborne
sanitation.
Small Business Extension: Provision of a revolving line
of credit totaling US$3 million for small informal sector
entrepreneurs along with technical assistance, training
and about 400 small industrial/commercial sites within
project and other areas. Loan amounts will range between
US$40-2,400.
v.        Technical Assistance:  About 145 man-months of studies and tech-
nical assistance will be provided to improve management capacity, shelter
design/technology and to monitor and evaluate project components, of which
about 92% would be for local personnel.
vi.       Implementation will require three-and-a-half years and will be the
responsibility of the FSVM (serviced sites), the Urban Housing Institute (IVU)
(upgrading pilot) and the Federacion de Cajas de Credito (small business ex-
tension), supported by normal services from the Ministries of Health and
Education. The Inter-agency Coordinating Committee, established under the
first project, has proven useful and will continue to coordinate the pro-
gram. Land will be acquired by the Government and subsequently transferred
to FSVM. Detailed design of pilot scheme improvements will be done in con-
sultation with the community and reflect existing servicing levels, local
priorities and capacity to pay. Legally registered local residents' asso-
ciations will be responsible for structuring community participation, main-
taining certain facilities and collecting monthly payments.



- iii -
vii.       Total project costs are estimated at US$24.5 million of which about
US$5.2 or 21% would be foreign exchange. The serviced site component repre-
sents about 87% of this sum, upgrading 2% and the small business scheme 14%.
Estimates are based on preliminary designs for the pilot upgrading scheme
and serviced sites and reflect contract prices under the first project.
Physical contingencies are relatively low--between 5-10%--since designs
are similar to those built under the first project. Price contingencies re-
flect annual rates of 10.5% to 17%, averaging about 30% of civil works and
equipment costs. About 52% of total costs will be financed by the Bank Group
(US$12.7 million), 5% (US$1.3 million) by FSVM and 43% (US$10.5 million) by
the Government. The Borrower will be the Government of El Salvador who will
onlend US$5.2 million IDA credit and US$5.1 million of the Bank loan to FSVM,
US$0.7 million of IDA credit and US$0.7 million Bank loan to the Federacion
and US$0.1 million IDA credit and US$0.1 million Bank loan to IVU. About
US$0.7 million of the Bank loan would be passed to FSVM by the Government
for construction of trunk infrastructure which would be turned over to the
relevant Government agencies upon completion; the balance (US$0.1 million)
would be divided among the three agencies for technical assistance and
studies.
viii.      Major civil works, building materials and equipment contracts
totaling US$10.7 million will be procured through international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Minor contracts for civil
works, materials and equipment below US$120,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$6.9 million, will be procured through local procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Equipment suppliers from the Central American Common Market would
receive a preferential margin of 15% of the base price or 50% of the tariff
payable, whichever is lower. A small revolving fund of US$300,000 will be
established similar to that under the first loan. Retroactive financing of
up to US$300,000 is included for design, administration and minor civil
works.
ix.        About 83% of project costs will be recovered directly from benefi-
ciaries through monthly mortgages, upgrading charges, loan repayments, and
utility rates. The remaining 17%, representing community services, would be
covered by Government revenues in accordance with Government policy. The
project would therefore be widely replicable. Household monthly charges
including utilities will range from US$2.75 to US$14.30 excluding the 3%
of units developed for purposes of social mix and differential pricing.
x.         The project will serve 9,000 households under the serviced site
and upgrading programs and 9,000 under the small business scheme, a propor-
tion of which will overlap. Benefits will therefore reach between 3-7% of
the urban population. Participants will fall within the 6th and 56th per-
centiles of the urban income distribution curve. Nearly 80% of the units
will be affordable to a target population with per capita annual income of
US$180 or below representing the 37th percentile and 23% to those between
the 6th-18th percentile earning US$57-110. The preceding assumes monthly
payments for shelter, services and utilities of 10-15% of household income.



- iv -
xi.       Approximately 6,450 man-years of wage employment would result from
the serviced site and upgrading components and another 4,800 jobs from the
Small Business Scheme at an average cost of US$735 per permanent job. This
figure compares favorably with the Bank's regional guideline of US$654 per
man-year for labor-intensive employment projects. Mutual- and self-help
labor, not included above, would help utilize otherwise unproductive time
to create an asset with a cash value. Experience indicates high participa-
tion rates of women and school leavers, helping mitigate the higher unemploy-
ment levels in these groups. The serviced site component would produce a
rate of return of 18%; the small business credit scheme would result in in-
crements to family incomes in the order of 10% through reduced borrowing
costs and profits realized from increased business volume.
xii.      Each of the three project components would generate financial sur-
pluses over the first ten years. The serviced site component would realize
small surpluses over the first four years, rising to US$500,000 in 1981 and
1982 and then dropping to US$25,000 in 1983 when the first payments on prin-
cipal begin. Surpluses rise steadily thereafterreaching US$200,000 by 1987
when the cumulative surplus totals US$1.7 million.
xiii.     Subject to agreement being reached on the points in paras. 7.01-
7.03, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$6.7 million and an IDA
credit of US$6 million.



EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of El Salvador has taken recent initiatives to
directly address chronic problems of poor distribution of land and income
including the declaration of the first Agrarian Reform District in July
1976. Government has requested Bank assistance in urban areas in its
efforts to deal for the first time with the establishment of lines of
credit for lowest-income families to stimulate employment and increase
income, in further refinement and expansion of the serviced site program,
and the legalization and improvement of a squatter settlement as a pilot
effort to a more comprehensive upgrading program now under preparation.
1.02      Project preparation, coordinated by the Ministry of Planning, was
completed between December 1975 and August 1976 by the Fundacion Salvadorena
de Vivienda Minima (FSVM), and the Federacion de Cajas de Credito assisted
by Bank missions in February and June. This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission which visited El Salvador from August 29-September 25,
1976, consisting of Ms. D. Haldane (Chief of Mission), Messrs. G. Gattoni
(URB), L. Wolff (LCP), M. Arbell (LCP-DFC), D. Hellinger, D. Coleman and
Z. Shiftan (consultants). Information on informal businesses in El Salvador
was drawn from a report prepared by Ms. K. Terrell (URED/ERD) on the basis
of a survey conducted during one of the preparatory visits.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      This project is a follow-up to a first loan for serviced sites
approved on November 4, 1974 (No. 473a-ES). Little has changed since that
time in the rapid population growth and high densities which contribute to
making El Salvador the most urbanized of the five Central American coun-
tries, with 40% of its four million citizens living in towns and cities.
The five largest urban centers now contain nearly three-quarters of all
those resident in urban areas. Population per arable ha is currently 5:1
and steadily rising. In response, Government has embarked upon a "National
Transformation" policy to guide the transition over the next decade of a
predominantly agricultural economy dependent upon a few key commodities
into one based on greater diversification and major urban/industrial employ-
ment. Urbanization is therefore expected to constitute a major feature of
Salvadorean development. Details on population growth, distribution, urbani-
zation and shelter conditions are contained in Report No. 473a-ES; basic
statistics are summarized in Annex 10.



- 2 -
A. Major Urban Problems
2.02      Employment/Income:  El Salvador's most pressing urban problems
remain chronic un- and underemployment, a highly inequitable distribution
of income and severe deficiencies in shelter and services. Effective unem-
ployment (including underemployment), exacerbated by wide seasonal fluctua-
tions related to the coffee and cotton crops has remained virtually unchanged
at about 30X of the work force over the last decade. Industrial development,
on which heavy reliance was placed for job generation, produced additional
employment at an annual rate of only 2.5%--well below the additions to the
potential labor force of around 3.4%. As a result, a large proportion of
the population turned to informal productive activities to earn their pre-
carious livelihoods. About half the urban households have monthly incomes
of a 300 (US$120) or less and nearly two-thirds Q 500 (US$200) or below
(US$20 and US$33 per capita respectively). In San Salvador the top 5% of
wage earners receive nearly 40% of income while the poorest 20% receive
only 2%, resulting in a large low-income population with limited purchasing
power. This maldistribution of income coupled with the country's small size
has prevented the domestic market from becoming a significant source of eco-
nomic growth or jobs (see the recently updated Economic Memorandum on El
Salvador--January 24, 1977).
2.03      Notwithstanding, informal market activities have created employ-
ment at essentially subsistence levels for as much as 46% of the total labor
force at various times. This characteristic absorptiveness of the informal
sector has helped counterbalance fluctuations in agricultural jobs of as
much as 70% resulting from highly seasonal labor needs. Most businesses
are owner-operated; about a third provide jobs to one or two employees.
Fixed capital is low with 80% valued at less than ¢ 1,000 (US$400); the
median monthly income of e 160 (US$64) is well below the minimum formal
sector wage of ¢ 200 (US$80). Bottlenecks to expansion of such enterprises
include very low incomes within the consumer population, limited education
and technical skills and restricted access to credit. The latter results
in a brisk market for loan sharks who may garner as much as 12% interest per
day on small amounts over short periods. High borrowing costs in turn curb
the ability to build up stocks when materials are abundant and cheap, and
may result in production halts when they are expensive. Profit margins are
thin and working capital remains low.
2.04      Uncontrolled Development:  Nearly 75% of residents in El Salvador's
four principal cities live in unauthorized areas. Three distinct types of
settlement occur: tugurios, mesones and illegal subdivisions. A tugurio is
typically a collection of squatter shanties built through invasion of pockets
of unused land such as public right-of-way, steep gullies or dry river beds.
Homes are constructed of cardboard, mud-and-wattle or other temporary mate-
rials as incomes are typically quite low. No form of tenure or servicing
exists. Settlements of this nature are generally small and dispersed and
actually accommodate only about 9% of total population. The second type of



- 3 -
settlement, a meson, is a tenement rental unit located in the central part
of the city comprising generally one room with shared and often overcrowded
sanitary facilities. Mesones house 15-20% of the urban population. Unser-
viced extralegal subdivisions accommodate nearly half the total urban popu-
lation and are clearly the primary contributor of affordable shelter for
low-income groups. Tenure agreements are unregistered and often biased in
favor of landowners.
2.05      Since 1974 Government has introduced several new measures to
address land distribution and income problems in agricultural zones. While
no similar action has yet been taken in urban areas, an Urban Study was ini-
tiated on September 13, 1976 to address several key urban problems. The
Study is contracted to the Planning and Development Collaborative Interna-
tional (PADCO, Inc.) and financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing
Agency. The Study will prepare recommendations and legislative guidelines
for measures to obtain land for public development purposes including the
feasibility of establishing a land development authority, and review taxation
measures to recover costs of public investment and resulting property value
increments from private landowners. A national upgrading program for unau-
thorized areas will also be formulated including guidelines to enable sub-
division of land under more appropriate space and servicing standards--the
most frequent reason for denial of development permits which leads to illegal
land sales--and a simple, workable approval system will be outlined.
B. The First Bank Project
2.06      The first Bank Site and Service project in El Salvador (paras. 2.01
and 3.03) was designed to address the severe shortage of low-cost shelter
evidenced by the extent of uncontrolled development in recent years through
provision of 7,000 serviced sites and related community facilities. The
executing agency, the Fundacion Salvadorena de Vivienda Minima (FSVM) was
established in 1971 as a private non-profit organization to help low-income
families obtain shelter. The project's objectives were to demonstrate the
suitablity of the serviced site approach as a practical alternative to con-
ventional fully contractor-built housing, to provide low-cost units afford-
able to families earning ¢ 100-300 (US$40-120) per month and to significantly
expand the production capacity of the FSVM, demonstrating the potential role
of the private sector in low-cost shelter development. Though only two years
have elapsed since its approval, the project has been successful to date in
meeting these objectives. Nearly 3,000 units have been built affordable to
families with incomes within the target group. Total unit development costs
for each site have been within 6% of those anticipated including price escala-
tion allowances (averaging overall 1% below). The FSVM's annual production
capacity has expanded from about 200 units in the early 1970's to 1,500.
2.07      Implementation Experience:  Numerous adjustments in the FSVM's
approach have been made over this period as experience was gained. Response
to mutual-help proved strong and additional work was shifted from the con-
tractor to group work. The combination of tasks executed through the better-
supervised mutual-help stage as opposed to the more independent self-help



phase was also revised with consequent changes in the composition of mate-
rials for self-help completion of dwellings. Unit designs have undergone
gradual adaptation as families' needs were better understood. Most appli-
cants in secondary cities were from mesones rather than tugurios as in San
Salvador and therefore had no temporary structure which could be rebuilt on
the site while dwellings were completed. Designs required revision to pro-
vide as much roofed area as possible to shelter the family and minimize
short-term investment in temporary materials. Site inspections revealed
that families duplicated effort and investment by building double walls
along shared property lines when this task was left to self-help. By
redesigning the initial core unit and shifting wall construction to the
mutual-help phase (para. 4.06) more covered area could be provided with
the savings from elimination of the double wall, resolving both problems.
2.08      Adjustment of certain design features of the project subtly un-
hinged others. Differential pricing between service levels 1 and 2 became
infeasible when design modifications brought them visibly closer together,
eroding justification for significantly different prices. The discrepancy
betwecn the 6% mortgage interest rate for the initial structure and the 8%
rate for materials loans created an actual disincentive to self-help. More-
over, lowest-income families did not always opt for lower-cost units. Some
preferred the more complete service level, particularly unmarried women
with small children or elderly persons less able to undertake construction.
Families with higher incomes or those with construction skills, on the other
hand, often selected the less complete unit, preferring to design and build
for themselves. In Usulutan less demand materialized than expected in a
market where illegal subdivisions were providing lower-cost lots without
services which proved competitive since water was easily obtained from shal-
low wells. Even the concept of "self-help" has had to be refined in view
of evidence that fully 40% of families utilized small contractors or paid
unskilled labor in completing units. Jobs thereby generated have typically
benefited underemployed residents of the same site.
2.09      The intense monitoring and constant adjustment of the program has
resulted in significantly higher administrative costs than anticipated.
Additional mutual-help activities further increased FSVM supervision costs.
While overall unit costs were held to those anticipated (and the shelter
area actually increased) disparities arose between various earmarked financ-
ing sources, with significant gaps appearing in management finance. Addi-
tional funds were required from Government during 1976 to cover these gaps.
2.10      The two major problems encountered under the first project involve
land acquisition and water supply in San Salvador. Topographic constraints
and the dominance of land ownership by a few individuals unwilling to sell
have complicated land transactions in the metropolitan area. The first
site built experienced considerable delay in obtaining adequate water supply
(though a temporary line was provided) due to a severe shortage throughout
the city and particularly low pressures in the project vicinity (Annex 6).
Construction of the supply source for this part of the city, which fell out-
side the scope of the Bank's project, encountered protracted delays. Par-
ticipants could not occupy the site on schedule, nor could the FSVM collect
monthly payments. Arrearages for those who did move in mounted although the



- 5 -
collection record in other FSVM sites had been excellent. Efforts to rectify
the situation by the Project Coordinating Committee, which has otherwise per-
formed its functions well, proved futile. Eventually a special temporary
valve adjustment was made in December 1976 to divert sufficient water from
the city supply to meet the project's needs.
2.11      Second Project:  The second project reflects adjustments resulting
from the preceding experience under the first which are detailed in subse-
quent sections of this report and incorporates several new features. A
pilot upgrading program will be undertaken to improve living conditions in
an unauthorized settlement which is expected to precede a national program
(see para. 3.25). Employment efforts, which under the first project were
experimental and limited to loans and technical assistance to a few coop-
eratives organized by the FSVM, proved successful and will be expanded and
placed within a permanent institutional base experienced in small lending
operations. Technical training will be offered and eligibility will be
broadened to include businesses outside project areas, individuals as well
as cooperatives, and a greater range of business sizes.
2.12      The project will serve about 9,000 families under the upgrading
and serviced site components and 9,000 under the small business scheme.
Since there will be overlap between these groups this represents between
3-7% of the urban population in cities under the project. Overall, benefi-
ciaries will be between the 6th and 44th percentile of the urban income dis-
tribution curve. Nearly 80% of the units will be affordable to a target
population with per capita annual income of US$180 or below, representing
the 37th percentile of the curve, and 23% to those between the 6th and 18th
percentile (para. 3.17).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Scope and Objectives
3.01      The project is national in scope, embracing major urban areas in El
Salvador and several smaller cities where growth has been most rapid and shel-
ter needs the greatest. The objective is to improve access to land, credit
and technical skills for lowest-income families, enabling them to improve
their standard of living directly by their own efforts. Annual FSVM produc-
tion capacity will be increased from 1,500 to 2,300 units. In addition to
bettering the physical environment, efforts will be made to stimulate in-
creased income and employment opportunities through the establishment of
lines of business credit and training in production and managerial skills
for small-scale informal businesses. Borrowing costs for such enterprises
should be substantially lowered. The project will contribute toward achiev-
ing a better balance of urban land ownership and income distribution in El
Salvador.



- 6 -
B. Description
3.02      The project would comprise three interrelated components plus
relevant technical assistance: development of serviced sites for self-
help housing construction, a pilot tugurio upgrading scheme and a small
business extension program to stimulate employment and increase incomes
which will be executed over four years. Specific components include:
(a) Serviced Sites: Development of 8,000 owner-built
dwellings on urbanized plots in urban areas in
El Salvador, including trunk infrastructure,
construction loans and community facilities;
(b) Upgrading Project: Improvement of living conditions
for about 800 households living in a tugurio settle-
ment to provide secure tenure, basic infrastructure,
and community facilities which will be installed by
mutual-help, and credit for dwelling improvements;
(c) Small Business Extension Scheme: Provision of credit,
technical assistance, training and small industrial/
commercial sites within project and other areas.
Loans will be for working capital, tools, equip-
ment and workshop construction and/or improve-
ments; and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training: Assistance to
the executing agencies to improve management capac-
ity, shelter design/technology and to monitor and
evaluate project components.
Serviced Sites
3.03      Distribution and Site Selection:  The distribution of serviced
plots by town is as follows:
Population    Expected
1976        Growth        Units Developed (1977-1980)
Location             (households) 1977-mid 1980  First Project  Second Project
San Salvador               122,000        21,300           4,100           5,700
Santa Ana                   30,200         5,300           1,000           1,000
San Miguel                  23,100         3,600           1,000             500
Sonsonate                   18,500         2,500             500             300
Usulutan                    17,300         2,400             400             -
Smaller urban centers      63,600          6,600             -               500
Total                274,700        35,000            7,000           8,000



- 7 -
About 70% of the units will be located in the capital where demand is great-
est; the remainder will be developed in secondary cities or smaller towns
where significant industrial or commercial growth is occurring. While it
is anticipated that about 9 subprojects will be built, several alternative
sites have been identified in each development area in accordance with the
criteria discussed in Annex 5, as purchase options cannot be maintained for
more than a few months.
3.04      Trunk infrastructure:  Off-site infrastructure essential to site
development will be provided including construction and improvement of major
access roads, water distribution mains, sewerage, storm drainage and elec-
tricity. Water for sites to be developed under both the first and second
projects in San Salvador will be supplied through the Zona Norte scheme
now under construction by the water authority (ANDA) and financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Confirmation was obtained during
negotiations that FSVM sites under both projects will receive preference by
the water authority (ANDA) in the supply of water delivered under Stage I
of the Zona Norte Phase I on other supply programs. Periodic progress
reports on the scheme will be furnished to the Bank. In addition, a con-
tingency plan for well drilling will provide water to sites in metropolitan
San Salvador in the event that unforeseen slippages occur in the Zona Norte
program. The wells would supply at least 60 lcd to allow occupancy on
schedule and activate the sewerage system. Hydrogeological conditions are
such that these slow-drawing wells would not adversely affect or deplete
the main San Salvador aquifer. During negotiations Government agreement
was obtained that the contingency plan will be initiated by FSVM at the
end of 1977 if progress on Zona Norte or other supply schemes appears in-
adequate to assure timely water supply for FSVM sites in metropolitan San
Salvador, costs of which will be charged to and recovered by ANDA. Upon
completion the wells would be turned over to ANDA and will remain available
as emergency or supplementary supply sources after completion of Zona Norte
(see Annex 6). Should the wells prove unnecessary, funds will be redirected
to other project components as agreed between the Bank and Government.
3.05      Layouts:  Project layouts incorporate innovations to lower devel-
opment costs while improving basic functional standards. They emphasize
efficient land use and infrastructure distribution networks to increase
marketable area to at least 60% of the gross. Public open space (small
neighborhood parks, play fields, civic plazas, etc.) and community facil-
ities will require between 20-25% of gross area, and circulation less 2than
15%. The 5educed circulation neiwork and smalle5 plot sizes (60-80 m aver-
aging 67 m compared to 60-120 m averaging 90 m under the first project)
yield unit densities between 75-100 ha. To achieve this high layout effi-
ciency, a cluster concept is used whereby 10-20 plots are grouped about a
small open space providing restricted vehicle access yet easily accessible
recreational spaces--important in higher density layouts. Clustering fur-
ther reduces infrastructure and circulation lengths and therefore costs.
Careful consideration has been given to natural site topography and drain-
age patterns to minimize earthworks and depth to pipe networks.



-8-
3.06      Service levels:  All plots will be provided with water including
the meter and connection, storm drainage, sewerage, and optional electrical
connections. Unpaved roads and footpaths with public lighting will provide
access to individual lots or lot clusters.
3.07      The range of service levels under the second project will be ex-
tended both upward and downward, with an overall shift toward reduced costs.
Four service levels will be offered. The average sale price for 96% of the
units will be ¢ 3,100 compared with ¢ 4,500 (1977 prices) under the first
loan. Lowered costs are the result of increased mutual-help, reduced lot
size, and more efficient infrastructure and core unit designs.
3.08      To encourage continuing evaluation and improvement of unit designs,
the FSVM will build several different options representing a given service
(cost) level in each site. A market survey will precede site development in
each area to determine preferences among various unit types to better tailor
supply to demand (see para. 2.08). Several new designs will be introduced.
The first is a lot with infrastructure only (Level A) costing ¢ 1,460 (US$580).
An innovative feature for this lowest service level is the use of centrally
located individual sanitary cores (Annex 4) shaving between 20-30% off the
cost of a comparable unit located on each plot. Designs permit future on-plot
servicing. A small number of one-room rental units built by contractor and
mutual-help will also be provided under Level A to accommodate elderly or
incapacitated persons needing inexpensive dwellings requiring no extended
labor inputs. Service Level B, costing e 3,100 (US$1,240) is represented by
a sanitary unit or a basic unit with centrally located sanitary facilities.
Level C at ¢ 4,100 (US$1,640) might be either a "condominium" or an expanded
unit, both of which are new designs. Two-story self-help extensions will
be introduced as options to achieve greater densities in areas such as San
Salvador where land is scarce and costs are rising rapidly. Representative
designs for each service level are shown in the illustration.
3.09      Construction loans:  Dwellings will be developed in three stages:
contractor works, mutual- and self-help. To facilitate rapid self-help con-
solidation, loans of between e 125 (US$50) to ¢ 650 (US$260) will be avail-
able for materials or labor necessary to construct, complete or expand the
core unit. Credit extension for labor is a new feature of the project in-
corporated as a result of previous experience (para. 2.08) and will further
stimulate informal job opportunities. Training received under the mutual-
help phase of the project has also increased productivity and provided
marketable skills to many participants.
3.10      Community facilities:  Communities will be serviced with three new
health clinics; one existing facility in San Miguel will be expanded. Seven
markets of three types will be located in central plazas and/or small dispersed
sites within the community. Residents will participate in constructing 16
simple multipurpose community centers (Table 7, Annex 2). Quantities have
been determined by normal unit ratios per 1,000 families adjusted by proximity
of existing facilities.



SERVICE LEVELS
SRMPLE UNIT TPES              O
-t h       ,,                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERVICEO
X mo, J ~~~~~~~~~~SERVI[E LEVEL E
ERNOEO UN1IT






- 9 -
3.11      The project would provide for constructing, equipping and furnishing
of 12 basic schools with 4,800 student places (3,720 in grades 1-6 and 1,080
in grades 7-9) to serve 9,600 students on a double shift basis. These
facilities would serve about 95% of the children aged 7 to 12 (grades i to
6) and 65% of those aged 13 to 15 (grades 7 to 9) resident in project areas.
The number and locations of schools (Table 1, Annex 4) are based on the
number of families in each site and would, of course, be adjusted during
implementation in the event of a change in site size or location. About 111
classrooms, 5 workshops/home economics areas, and 4 laboratories will be
built. School designs emphasize simplicity and efficient use of open space.
The schools will utilize continguous community sports fields and community
centers to economize on open space and large multipurpose halls. During
negotiations confirmation was obtained from Government that educational
facilities such as laboratories, workshops, and libraries will be available
for adult training when not in use by the regular school program, that
teachers of grades 1-6 in project schools will participate in in-service
training courses under the Bank's Second Education Project (Loan No. 1007-ES),
and that qualified administrators and teachers in adequate numbers will be
employed to staff project schools.
Pilet Upgrading Scheme
3.12      As a complement to the development of new serviced site areas,
improv-ements will be made in the living conditions and economic opportunities
oF the 4,500 residents of the "22 of April" tugurio settlement, involving
provisioa or _asic infrastructure, community facilities, secure land tenure
and construction loans for home improvements (Annex 7). The pilot scheme
will parallel preparation of a more comprehensive national upgrading program
ofreriag an opPortitnity LO obtain practical feedback on proposed tenure
airsngements, -m-tual-help response, organization, staffing and other program
feat:ures.
3.13      The settlcment is well located on municipal land near San Salvador's
major access road and industrial zone. Both formal and informal job oppor-
tunities are readily available in the vicinity. Minimal water service is
currently provided by a 2-inch water line and two standpipes (1:400 families)
thougih residents must walk a considerable distance to the two communal taps.
The exisLing residents' organization, which will be legally constituted as
a Community Association, will facilitate local consultations and final
decisions regarding the type and location of improvements. The preceding
factors "ontributed to the selection of the "22 of April" as the pilot area.
3.14      Tne following services will be provided, reflecting the community's
expressed priorities:



- 10 -
Infrastructure               Community Facilities       Employment
(% Servicing Cost)              (% Servicing Cost)        Generation
Water Supply/Washing Areas (17%)  Community/Day Care Center (4%)  Employment Agency
7 additional standpipes     construction/equipping       establishment of an
communal washing areas w/  School Renovation (6%)        employment service
46 showers, 32 laundry      installation of sanitary    within the Cammunity
sinks, 2 fire hydrants      facilities, expansion and   Association to assist
Access Roads/Footpaths (56%)  additional equipment       residents in job place-
paving of 925m of major    Market (2%)                  ment and training
access road, about 3,OOOe of  376m0 market area w/simple
footpaths, steps and stabi-  stalls
lization of steep gradients  Sports Field (1%)
Storm Drains (13%)           Improvement of existing
Improvement of 580m of      soccer field and simple
existing canal and intro-   basketball equipment and
duction of drainage along   court
footpaths                   Green/Productive Areas (1%)
planting of fruit trees in
green areas providing
additional income from
fruit sales
Average development cost will be about ¢ 765 (US$306) per family. Modest
construction loans from ¢ 100 to ¢ 400 (US$160) per family and technical
supervision for self-help improvement of homes will also be available to
residents. Servicing standards will be simpler than in serviced site areas
in view of the communities' lower capacity to pay. Water supply will be
shared (1 standpipe:100 families) as will showers and laundry sinks (1:20
families). No waterborne sanitation will be provided in view of its high
cost, difficulty of installation and the limited payment capacity of resi-
dents. A tranch of the improvement loan, however, may be used for a spe-
cially designed (intermediate) sanitation unit similar to an aqua privy. An
improved pit latrine will also be available (Annex 7). Continued use of the
latter will not result in contamination of the San Salvador aquifer due to
the depth of the water table which averages over 200 m in this area (Annex
6). If successful, the intermediate sanitation may be tried out in the ser-
viced sites. Standards for access roads, footpaths and storm drainage, how-
ever, are similar to those in FSVM sites since the steep topography of the
settlement requires construction which will resist erosion.
3.15      Basic to the upgrading concept is the provision of secure tenure
for land and dwellings. Land will be purchased from the Municipp"1ty by the
Community Association and individual households, under which fam es may
secure ownership or use rights of a particular plot defined by a survey and
marking system administered by the Association. Most homes are clearly de-
marcated by fences and other property boundaries, making the task fairly
straightforward. The proposed system should provide a legally binding and
transferable instrument and eliminates the need for a costly and time-consum-
ing legal survey of each plot required for property registry in El Salvador.
A study of the mechanics and legal aspects of the proposed system has been
prepared under the Urban Study (para. 2.05).
3.16      Guiding principles of the upgrading scheme involve servicing
standards based on phased improvement of present services or introduction
of basic--generally--shared facilities. Detailed design standards will be
determined in consultation with the community (Annex 7) and will reflect



1$
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<,>    One of the two  communal  water
taps serving 400O families, used
PILOT  UPtLRRh1IN4I FRER                     for bathing, laundry and also home supply
CONDITIONS IN "122 OF APRIL"
A typical home of mud and wattle
with fenced-in  yard demarcating          -
the, property  boundary.  Salvaged bricks 
reinforce the construction in some spots                                                w
Densities within the  settlement are quite        -n'
high due in part to its excellent location 
such as the one on the right, doing wv
ainyosra  thb u onestsue occinuy uone 1r 
business through the open storefront    PVi  






Severe  erosion  often
makes  footpaths/roads
treacherous during  the  rains.
Some areas are subject to flash
floods. Homeowners such as this
one below, however, are willing
to work on improving conditions
4>     ~Though  housing  conditions are              4    -
often very poor,  evidence such        ~~!~
ap this TV antenna indicate a capacity to pay
Most illegal subdivisions are also subject to
erosion problems due to their positioning on
difficult terrain like this steep hillside
rJA r zWv > W 
0r t o r - w w s e
S *jS ALv ^ ' _ Z ' t'-  _  > 






- 11 -
community priorities and capacity to pay. Secure tenure will be provided.
There will be minimal resettlement; families displaced by installation of
essential services will be relocated, where feasible, in areas adjacent to
the community. The preceding principles were confirmed during negotiations.
Affordability
3.17     The project would reach families with per capita monthly income
from ¢ 12 (US$4.80) to e 43 (US$17.20) 1/ assuming a conservative 10-15% of
monthly household income is spent for shelter, services and utilities (paras.
5.15 and 5.19) representing the 6th to 44th percentile of the urban income
distribution curve as shown below: (See Chart WB 16657)
Investment   (Colones)       Income
Optional               Group   Percentile
Construction       %     Served  of Urban
No.   Sale Price  Loan    Total  Monthly  (Colones)  Income
Service  House-  Per      Per      Per  Income   Per Capita   Distribufion
Level holds   %  Family Capita  Family Capita  Fmily Capita  Spent-/  Per Annun  Cure-
800   9  765    128  300  50  1,065  178    10  144-192+  6-9th+
A  1,200  14   1,460  243  650    108  2,110  351    15  216-276+  11-18th+
B  4,800  55   3,100    517  400  67  3,500  584    15  396-456+  32-37th+
C  1,680  19   4,100  683  -  -   4,100  683    15  516+  44th-+
D   320   3   8,100  1,350  -  -   8,100   1,350  20  756+  56th+
a/ Including utilities payments.
b/ Housing Market Study: 3 cities (San Salvador, Sonsonate and San Miguel), PSVM, July 1976.
On a per capita basis project investment will range from about ¢ 128 (US$51)
under the pilot upgrading to e 683 (US$273) for serviced sites. About 78%
of unit investments would be at V 584 (US$234) or below, and 23% at d 351
(US$140) or less, representing a housing investment of between 80-130% of
annual family income.
Small Business Extension Scheme
3.18     The small business component (Annex 3) is designed to reach in-
formal urban enterprises currently operating almost exclusively outside
the conventional banking framework. Other agencies such as the Industrial
Guaranty Fund for Small Enterprises (FIGAPE) and the Government Cooperative
Agency (INSAFOCOOP) are available to assist more established operations.
The program will offer both credit and optional technical assistance.
1/  Excluding units at Service Level D included for the purpose of social
mix and differential pricing.



- 12 -
3.19      Credit:  A revolving line of credit totaling about V 7.5 (US$3.0)
million will be made available for three purposes: about 40% will be for
working capital loans of between e 100 to e 6,000, another 40% for tools
and equipment loans in similar amounts, and the remaining 20% for workshop
construction, extension, repair or improvement in amounts between e 250 to
¢ 6,000. A ceiling of e 12,000 will apply to cooperatives. Any enterprise--
individual, partnership, cooperative or corporation--located within an FSVM
site or a marginal community will be eligible for credit. Small firms
located elsewhere with fixed assets below ¢ 5,000 (US$2,000) or cooperatives
with assets below ¢ 10,000 may also apply.  Preference will be given to
applicants with one year or more of experience in the type of business for
which he is seeking a loan.  Selection will be made on the basis of viability
of the proposed use and need.  Financial features (loan terms and collateral)
of business credits are presented in paras. 5.25-5.30.
3.20      Technical assistance:  Training and technical assistance will be
offered to participants in the lending program, but is not requisite to
obtaining credit. Similarly, informal businesses wishing to participate in
the training program need not be borrowers to qualify, and may be located in
any part of town; sufficiently small size and need will constitute the sole
eligibility criteria. Cooperatives will also be encouraged to participate.
Training will be offered at community centers or schools within each commun-
ity in simple business skills such as management, basic accounting systems,
inventory control, purchasing and marketing. Specialized courses may be
mounted for particular types of businesses such as inventory management for
small shops, sewing machine repair and maintenance for tailors, or personnel
hiring, training and supervision for service enterprises. Concerns of
businesses with special production linkages or of cooperatives will also
be addressed, potentially involving group organization, registration, pro-
duction systems, transportation and storage, etc. An effort will be made
to organize marketing by groups of entrepreneurs both to capture larger
contracts which individual enterprises would be unable to fulfill by them-
selves and to gain entry into new markets. For the latter, training would be
coupled with careful quality control to insure that products gain acceptance.
3.21      Small industrial/commercial sites:  About 400 sites for small in-
dustrial and/or commercial use will be developed by the FSVM under the ser-
viced site component of the project. Families may utilize the site for
residential as well as commercial purposes. Servicing standards will be the
same as other lots, but no core unit will be built. Maximum materials loans
of ¢ 650 will be available under the serviced site component or proprietors
may apply for a workshop construction loan of up to e 6,000 under the business
credit program.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.22      Assistance will be provided to each of the three executing agencies
for improving project execution, dealing with special problems arising during
implementation, execution of specialized studies and for evaluation of project
results. Complementary training activities are being carried out under the



- 13 -
UNDP-financed Urban Study involving in-service training seminars and study
tours in which Salvadorean staff involved in executing portions of this
project may also participate. The project will specifically include:
(a)  A study of shelter/design technology:  identification of
new materials, designs or layouts capable of reducing
costs, simplifying construction, etc. applicable to both
serviced sites and upgrading, to be executed by FSVM and
fully financed by the OAS;
(b)  Socioeconomic evaluation of the serviced site component:
evaluation of new features under the second project and
marketing studies to be undertaken prior to site devel-
opment in each secondary city to determine the effective
demand for various unit types (para. 3.08). This study
would also be implemented by FSVM;
(c)  Small business evaluation:  a review and comparison of
pricing and other features of the "Popular" and "Urban"
credit systems will be made by the Federacion after the
first year of operation, with a view to subsequently
adjusting features of the Urban Credit Scheme (para.
5.27). Further investigation of the market for credit
and technical assistance will also be carried out along
with an evaluation of the impact of such assistance on
employment and income generation; and
(d)  Technical assistance:  About 2 man-months of specialists'
time will be made available to each of the three agencies
to assist in investigating and resolving special problems
encountered during implementation.
3.23      The project will provide about 145 man-months of studies and tech-
nical assistance of which 92% would be provided by local personnel. Esti-
mated costs per man-month are e 2,200 for local personnel and ¢ 12,500
(US$5,000) for foreign. Terms of reference for (c) above would be developed
in consultation with the Bank. Consultants utilized in any study would be
employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Complementary Programs
3.24      Health/Nutrition:  Parallel with the Bank-assisted project a pre-
ventive health education program will be offered by the Ministry of Health
at clinics built under the project. In addition, instruction is typically
offered by staff of the Community Development and Cooperation Agency (FOCCO)
on basic nutrition education and preparation and proper storage of foodstuffs
which will be continued in Bank-assisted project sites.
3.25      Upgrading:  Preparation of a national squatter upgrading program is
currently underway through the Urban Study (para. 2.05) contracted to PADCO,



- 14 -
Inc. A Phase I report was issued in March 1977 identifying suitable settle-
ments to be upgraded, priorities among infrastructure and community services
for each, design standards, and proposals on the legal and institutional
means of providing secure tenure to different types of settlements (see para.
3.12). An assessment of the legislative base for the tenure proposals and
a timetable for drafting and enactment of any new regulations required
accompanied the report, along with recommendations regarding a suitable
institutional base for a national improvement program. Following a joint
review by the Bank and Government, preliminary designs will be developed
between April and June of 1977 for the upgrading of specific settlements
along with legislative guidelines for attendant laws or regulations related
to provision of tenure. A final joint review of the policy and execution
arrangements for the proposed program, will take place in August 1977. About
0 2 million has been earmarked within the 1977 Government budget for initiat-
ing the upgrading.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.01       The project will be implemented by three agencies, supported by
normal Government services as follows:
Community Facilities and Services
Comm. Centers
Sports Fields Security
Project Component   Executing Agency           Schools       Clinics   Markets   Lighting
Serviced Sites   Fundacion Salvadorena  Ministry of   Ministry   FOCCO    CAESS
de Vivienda Minima       Education       of Health              CLESS
(FSVM)                    (Direccion
Arquitectura
Educativa (DAE)
Upgrading Pilot  Instituto de                      T               II
Vivienda Urbana
(IVU)
Small Business   Federacion de                  n.a.           n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
Extension          Cajas de Credito
A full-time coordinator will be named by the Ministry of Education by
September 30, 1977 to oversee the education component. Maintenance of
facilities built under the project is discussed in para. 5.24.
4.02       To facilitate execution of the first Bank project, the Ministry
of Planning (Planificacion) established a Coordinating Committee, composed
of its own senior officials, and representatives from DUA, ANDA, FSVM,
FOCCO, the Ministries of Health and Education and the Financiera Nacional



- 15 -
de la Vivienda (FNV) (para. 2.10). The Committee will be expanded to include
IVU and the Federacion and will continue to coordinate the various agencies,
ministries and institutions involved in the second project. Quarterly prog-
ress reports prepared by the FSVM, IVU and the Federacion will be made avail-
able to the Committee and to the Bank (para. 5.33).
A. Serviced Sites
Organization and Staffing
4.03      The FSVM (Annex la) will require only minor increases in staff
and physical plant to carry out the second project (Annex la). The agency's
present organization includes a Technical Operations, Financial, and Social
Division (Chart WB-16457). Two organizational changes are proposed: the
addition of a Comptroller's Section responsible for an internal audit and
financial studies and the use of an IBM computerized processing system for
collections, accounting and payroll functions. A General Management Study
will be initiated by the FSVM utilizing consultants in May 1977 to review
overall performance of the various divisions and the effectiveness of the
present organizational structure.
Implementation Tasks
4.04      Land acquisition:  Suitable land is available at reasonable prices
to meet project needs outside San Salvador, and has already been acquired for
San Miguel and Sonsonate. Three areas in the capital have been identified
as prime development zones for the proposed project (Map 12511). In view of
previous land acquisition difficulties (para. 2.10) and FSVM's lack of
recourse as a private agency to expropriation, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Government will acquire all project sites and that
in the San Salvador metropolitan area at least 40 of the total 100 ha re-
quired (representing 40 ha and 60 ha respectively for the first and second
projects) will be purchased by May 1977 and the remainder by the end of the
year, if necessary by expropriation. Acquisition will be through IVU, the
Government's low-cost housing agency. Owners would be compensated at market
values. Current IVU policy incorporates a surcharge when land is resold.
While this policy is generally sound, when applied to the serviced site pro-
gram it results in a regressive cross-subsidy whereby lowest-income families
contribute toward developing subsidized homes for the higher-income groups
served by IVU. During negotiations Government assurances were obtained that
land prices charged to FSVM by IVU will cover only the acquisition cost and
an annual interest of 5% on the outstanding balance (Annex 5).
4.05      Trunk infrastructure:  To avoid problems the National Water Author-
ity (ANDA) has experienced in complying with its commitments under the first
project to construct off-site water and sewer lines (para. 2.10), the FSVM
will be responsible for construction of trunk water and sewerage systems.
ANDA will review and approve designs and tender specifications and will



- 16 -
receive and maintain the facilities. FSVM will supervise construction in
coordination with the water agency. The proposed procedure, which conforms
to the normal practice for private contractors, was confirmed during negotia-
tions. The Ministry of Public Works through DVA will construct and maintain
trunk roads and storm drainage lines.
4.06      Site development:  The FSVM's Project Division will prepare detailed
layouts, unit designs and tender documents (see Annex 4 for detailed features
of serviced sites). Upon completion of contractual works, occupants are
organized by FSVM into mutual-help teams to complete the core dwelling units,
involving installation of sanitary fixtures, roof, floors, doors, etc., and
certain community tasks such as paving footpaths, construction of community
centers and tree planting. During this stage participants are taught basic
construction techniques that will be needed for self-help completion and
expansion of dwellings. This phase is also important in developing community
identity, organization and a sense of shared responsibility. Plot allocation
and occupancy follows mutual-help and families proceed to build, complete or
expand their dwellings with the aid of construction loans.
4.07      Plot allocation:  The Social Division of FSVM will advertise
projects and screen and evaluate applications. Selection criteria include:
(a) residency in squatter settlements or poor housing conditions for two or
more years; (b) an individual monthly income of not more than e 50, or a
household total of not more than e 300 rising to e 70 and e 400 respectively
from mid-1978 onward; (c) intention to live on the assigned lot; and (d) will-
ingness to participate in the program. The 4% of units at the highest ser-
vice level will be exempt from (a) and (b). Final selection will be made
by lottery and ratified by the FSVM Selection Committee composed of the
Executive Director and 4 members of the FSVM's staff. The allottee will be
required to sign his mortgage within one month of site completion. Failure
to make a down payment (para. 5.13) in cash or in kind (through participation
in mutual-help) 4 months after signature or to initiate development within 24
months will constitute abandonment, and result in reallocation of the lot.
4.08      Construction loans/technical assistance:  The Technical Operations
Division will construct, stock and manage on-site warehouses from which
households may withdraw materials loans of up to e 650 (US$260) in tranches
as needed. Technical advice will accompany the loan. Simple, illustrated
construction manuals and model homes will help families visualize possible
improvements. Guidance will also be given on the use and maintenance of the
facilities built.
4.09      Tenure:  Most lots will be transferred to allottees through tenant
purchase or freehold sale; a maximum of 5% may be rented on a 20-year lease-
hold. The FSVM primarily uses the tenant-purchase system whereby title
is transferred on completion of "mortgage" payments, simplifying legal
procedures in the event of foreclosure. After the first 5 years, however,
families with reasonable payment record are offered a freehold purchase
option. Experience indicates these terms induce maximum improvements and
maintenance by project beneficiaries. Property rights are placed in the
names of both man and wife and inherited by their children upon death in the
absence of any will provision stipulating otherwise.



PROGRESSIVE DEVELOPMIENT
MIUTHRL-HELP
GROUPS OF 26-25 FAMIIUES
INSTALL, ROOF, SRNITURY
FIXTURES, FLOUlS,
RNO FOUTPRTHS






- 17 -
4.10      Collections/foreclosures:  Collections will be made at on-site
offices for both mortgages and construction loans in San Salvador. For
secondary cities monthly site visits are made on specified days. An incen-
tive system has already been introduced whereby collectors receive a bonus
of a small percentage of amounts collected over a fixed minimum. The new
procedure has resulted in steady improvement over the past 6 months in the
FSVIM's arrearage position (para. 5.17). Families showing debts of over 3
months are visited by FSVM staff to arrange an adjusted repayment schedule.
At 6 months, cases are passed to the Legal Department to initiate foreclosure
proceedings. A clear and reasonable compensation policy governs resales in
such cases.
B. Pilot Upgrading
Organization and Staffing
4.il      The Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU), the national housing agency,
wi-ll implement the pilot upgrading component. IVU was established in 1950 as
an autonomous government agency to provide dwelling units for the low- and mid-
dle-income sector. The Agency is currently attempting to refocus its programs
on the severe housing deficit for those with monthly household incomes below
0 250 (US$100). IVU's 1978-82 plan provides for 25,000 new and rehabilitated
units in urban areas of El Salvador, nearly 60% of which are targeted for
families with monthly incomes below ¢ 250. IVU has had some previous ex-
perience with upgrading through a special project carried out between 1972
and 1974. Two squatter areas containing 370 families in San Salvador were
provided with water, sewerage, sanitary cores, streets, footpaths, earth-
works and secure tenure in the form of a tenant-purchase agreement. Monthly
charges are between e 8-18 depending on plot size.
4.12      While IVU has experienced managerial and financial difficulties
in the past, a recent restructuring and change of management is expected to
result in improved execution capacity and efficiency. The new president
has stressed the Agency's need to address shelter requirements of the lower
income sector--an initiative which has received Government support--and
previous pricing policies containing subsidies are under reformulation.
4.13      A special project unit will be created with specific responsibil-
ities for detailed design and implementation of upgrading. The unit director
and key staff will be appointed following consultation with the Bank by
April 30, 1977. The unit will contain two sections responsible for design
and supervision and social promotion. Other IVU departments will provide
back up in specialized services such as legal and personnel.
Implementation Tasks
4.14      The project unit will gather base data from an initial survey, pre-
pare detailed designs and engineering after consultation with the community,
supervise construction and provide technical assistance for home improvement.



- 18 -
The pilot scheme in the "22 of April" community is defined precisely with
respect to servicing standards, designs, staffing needs, costs and cost
recovery (Annex 7). Detailed engineering will be initiated in February in
consultation with residents.
4.15      Registration of Community Association:  Local residents' associa-
tions will be responsible for structuring community participation in planning
stages, determining priorities between potential improvements, maintaining
certain facilities and collecting monthly payments. Most important, the
associations will purchase land, register individual property rights and
mediate any tenure disputes which arise over time. IVU will help reorganize
and register existing local organizations to legally undertake these tasks.
Associations will typically be divided into 5-8 secretariats responsible for
specific aspects of community life such as property registration, health,
education, housing improvement, water, sports, collections and commercial
activities. An Executive Committee of three secretaries will assist the
elected (Board) Chairman in dealing with day-to-day administrative affairs
(Chart WB-16621).
4.16      Construction:  Upgrading work will utilize both (unpaid) mutual-
help and contracted labor. About 50% of physical works will be by mutual-
help, substantially reducing cash costs and therefore monthly payments. The
Social Section of IVU's project unit will organize mutual-help groups in
cooperation with the local association. Certain jobs requiring specialized
equipment such as road grading and compaction or skilled construction tasks,
however, are more efficiently accomplished by force account which will
involve paid labor.
4.17      Materials credits:  On-site warehouses will be built and operated
by IVU. A Home Improvement Secretariat within the Community Association will
help publicize the loan program, identify potential improvements, organize
mutual-help for major jobs and arrange specialized assistance for minor ones.
Technical staff will be available on site to advise homeowners about potential
improvements, and technical aspects of renovation.
4.18      Collections:  The Collection Secretariat of the Community Associ-
ation will be responsible for collecting monthly payments at their local
office for the development charge, utilities and construction loans. One
lump-sum payment will then be passed to a local bank which will forward
payment to IVU, in accordance with the agency's normal procedures. Payments
for utilities such as water will also be forwarded monthly to the relevant
authority. Since foreclosure and eviction are not effective means of dealing
with arrearages and default within an upgrading context, special measures may
be used by the Association in such cases including restriction of services,
social pressure or suspension of tenure rights. The use of local associations
as payment agents is expected to minimize collection problems; risk allowances
included in monthly charges are sufficient to cover those that occur (para.
5.21).



- 19 -
C. Small Business Extension Scheme
Organization and Staffing
4.19      The executing agency for the small business component will be the
Federacion de Cajas de Credito (Annex lb), a limited liability cooperative
society established in 1943 for the purpose of assisting its members (credit
cooperatives) to help small farmers and businessmen through loans and tech-
nical assistance. The agency comprises about 39 cooperatives located through-
out El Salvador with a total membership of 48,600. The Federacion offers
over 30 years of experience in administering both directly and through its
affiliated cooperatives a large number of small loans for a variety of
purposes. Approximately 70% of credits are for amounts between e 25-500
(US$10-200). Total loans approved in 1975 numbered about 35,700. To handle
this large portfolio of small loans the agency's accounting has been com-
puterized. The Federacion's largely decentralized structure further facil-
itates delegation of lending authority and administration to the local level.
4.20      A new Urban Credit Department will be established to adminster the
scheme and the Department Head is expected to be named by June 1977. The
Department will be organized into three sections: loan initiation, disburse-
ment/accounts and collection which will deal with each respective phase of
the loan life. Urban Credit operations will eventually be decentralized to
local cajas following the mid-point review (para. 5.32) but the Department
will continue to serve San Salvador directly.
Implementation Tasks
4.21      Loan initiation:  Personnel of IVU and FSVM will assist the Federa-
cion in publicizing the new program and identifying potential borrowers.
Where a group acts as borrower or guarantor, an orientation will take place
to explain rights and responsibilities of all parties. A simple feasibility
study will be undertaken for enterprises whose loan requests exceed d 1,500.
Loan approval will be the responsibility of a Federacion Selection Committee,
composed of the Assistant General Managers for Finance and Cajas and the
head of the Popular Credit Scheme. Processing of applications will require
between 2 to 4 weeks.
4.22      Disbursement:  Disbursement will generally be in cash.  For amounts
over ¢ 500, direct payment may be made to suppliers of goods being acquired
with the loan. For construction loans or major repairs to small workshops,
disbursement will be in two or more tranches. Payment subsequent to an ini-
tial cash advance will require reasonable demonstration that the previous
amount was utilized for the intended purpose, involving periodic visits to
verify construction progress. Payments for specialized skills and/or labor
would be in cash against signed invoices (or receipts) of the laborers.
4.23      Collection:  Monthly payments will be made at the central offices
of the Federacion or at the local credit unions in secondary cities. This



- 20 -
system has been successful under the Popular Credit Program which provides
short-term lending to urban market stall holders (Annex lb) and considerably
reduces collection costs. In settlements with effective Community Associa-
tions, experimental collection programs may be tried out utilizing the
Association as the collection agent in return for a small fee. Procedures
for dealing with arrearages are detailed in Annex 3.
4.24      Technical assistance/training:  The complementary training and
assistance program will be administered by the Productivity and Development
Section of the Urban Credit Department, key staff of which will be appointed
by September 30, 1977. One trainer will generally be responsible for organiz-
ing activities for 3 communities. Orientation sessions will familiarize the
community with the Federacion's program and vice versa. Thereafter courses
would be organized to meet specific needs of businesses in that settlement.
Trainers will also deal directly with specific problems of individual enter-
prises or groups of enterprises. Special seminars or short courses may be
initiated on particular subjects and staff will have access to short-term
consulting services of specialists in particular fields. Some may themselves
specialize in particular skills and "float" among various communities. At
the local level a special Business Secretariat will be formed within the Com-
munity Association to help organize training activities within each community.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.25      Project execution will take about 3.5 years.  Land acquisition for
the serviced site component will take place during 1977 for San Salvador,
terminating overall by early 1978. Occupancy and self-help completion of
units will begin by early 1979 continuing through 1980. This represents
a yearly FSVM construction capacity of approximately 2,300 units (Chart
WB-16677). The upgrading pilot will be initiated in mid-1977, and completed
within about 12 months allowing for an interruption due to seasonal rains
(Chart WB-16668). Construction of trunk infrastructure, water supply,
schools and clinics are within both the preceding timetables. The small
business scheme will commence in April 1977; it is anticipated that about 50%
of loan funds will be drawn down in the first 15 months. In April 1978 a
mid-point review will be made and in July 1978 the scheme will become national
in scope with full disbursement anticipated by early 1979.
V. COSTS, FINANCING AND RECOVERY
A. Project Costs
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at V 61.3 (US$24.5) million of
which the serviced site component together with related trunk infrastructure
and community facilities would represent about 84%, the pilot upgrading 2%
and the small buiness scheme 14%. Foreign exchange will be about US$5.2
million or 21% of total costs shown in the following table.



- 21 -
Total Project Costs
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
(Colones '000)              (US$ '000)
SERVICED SITES
Land                          7,092       -    7,092   2,837        -    2,837       -
On-site Infrastructure
a) Earthworks, roads,
footpaths, water,
storm drains,
sewerage                  5,800   2,486   8,286   2,320        994   3,314    30
b) Security lighting           372   1,487   1,859        149     595      744    80
Trunk infrastructure
a) Roads, storm drains       1,673      717   2,390      669      287      956      30
b) Water, sewerage             222      148      370       89      59      148      40
Core Units
a) Contractor components   6,522   2,174   8,696   2,609          869   3,478       25
b) Mutual-help materials   3,558        628   4,186   1,423       251   1,674       15
c) Water meter/connection    516        773   1,289      207      309      516      60
Construction Loans            2,160      540   2,700       864     2?16   1,080      20
Administration                5,271      277   5,548   2,109       111   2,220        5
Community Facilities          5,034   2,157   7,191   2,013        863   2,876       30
UPGRADING PILOT SCHEME          750      188      938      300       75     375      20
SMALL BUSINESS EXTENSION
Credit Program                7,686      405   8,091   3,074       163   3,237        5
Technical Assistance            618       33      651      247       13     260       5
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE                      543      142      685      217       57     274      20
CONTINGENCIES
Well plan (water)               536      805   1,341       214     322      536      60
Physical and Price
included above (see
Annex 2)
TOTAL                    48,353  12,960  61,313  19,341   5,184  24,525



- 22 -
5.02      Estimates are based on preliminary engineering for the pilot
upgrading scheme and first three serviced sites. Quantities for trunk
infrastructure represent preliminary estimates for selected areas (para.
3.03) generally in close proximity to those under the first project. Prices
are for April 1977 and reflect recent FSVM contract costs. Mutual-help labor
has not been costed. Land is priced at anticipated market values over the
acquisition period. Physical contingencies include 10% for serviced sites,
trunk infrastructure and schools, and 5% for upgrading, other community
facilities and core units. The latter are relatively low since designs are
similar to those recently built under the first project. Price escalation
based on a survey by FSVM reflects anticipated rates of 17% for 1977 dropping
to 10.5% by 1980 averaging overall about 30% of civil works and equipment
costs. Details of project costs are presented in Annex 2.
B. Financing Plan
5.03      About 52% of total project costs would be financed by the Bank
Group (US$12.7 million), 31% (US$7.7 million) from Government, 5% (US$1.3
million) from FSVM through donations and local borrowings, 9% (US$ 2.1 mil-
lion) from the Federacion and 3% (US$0.7 million) from CAESS/CLESS as shown
below (US$'000):
Serviced Sites
External In-                           Small          % of
Serviced  frastructure  Community       Pilot   Business       Project
Source            Sites   and Studies   Facilities  Upgrading  Scheme  TOTAL Costs
World Bank Group                                                                   52
IDA             5,206                                   94        700   6,000
IBRD            5,080        828                        94        700   6,702
GOVERNMENT                                                                7,652   31
Budget:
Ministry of Health                         390
Ministry of
Education                               2,106
Ivu            2,837                                   187
FSVM              700
FOCCO                                      380
ANDA                           96
DUA                          956
FSVM                                                                      1,330    5
Banco Hipo-
tecario        900
Donations         300         130
Federacion                                                        2,097   2,097    9
CAESS/CLESS                     744                       _                  744    3
TOTAL (US'$000) 15,023        2,754        2,876         375      3,497  25,525  100



- 23 -
Direct Government participation in the second Bank project is nearly triple
that of the first including financing of all land. The Bank Group will pro-
vide a US$6.7 million Bank loan and US$6 million IDA credit covering 100% of
foreign exchange and 39% of local costs. Government, the Federacion, FSVM
and CAESS/CLESS would cover the remaining 61% of local financing including
100% of land costs. During negotiations written confirmation of the Funda-
cion's financing sources was obtained.
5.04      Onlending:  The Borrower will be the Government of El Salvador
who will onlend US$1.4 million of Bank Group funds to the Federacion de Cajas
de Credito, US$10.3 million of Bank Group funds to FSVM and US$0.2 million of
Bank Group funds to IVU. The Bank loan will be onlent at the same terms
which Government receives from the Bank to the Federacion and IVU and at the
same interest rate and maturity, but with 6 years' grace to FSVM; IDA funds
will be onlent at 2% interest representing the same rate as under the first
project to FSVM, 1/ the Federation and IVU. Repayment will be over 30 years
including 6 grace for FSVM and over 20 years including 5 grace for IVW and
the Federacion. The split of IDA/Bank funds between agencies and onlending
terms were confirmed at negotiations. About US$0.7 million of the Bank loan
would be passed to FSVM by the Government for construction of trunk infra-
structure which would be turned over to ANDA upon completion. The remaining
US$0.1 million would be divided among the three agencies as grants for tech-
nical assistance and studies. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by
Government.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
5.05      Major civil works, building materials and equipment contracts under
the project totaling US$10.7 million will be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Prequalifica-
tion notices for contract groupings will be advertised locally with notifica-
tion to embassies. Experience under the first loan indicates, however, that
little if any interest can be expected from foreign contractors. Out of nine
contract awards over 24 months, interest was expressed by only one foreign
firm (Guatemalan) which never actually submitted a bid. Therefore, in the
absence of prequalified foreign firms a 30-day bidding period will be allowed.
Equipment suppliers from the Central American Common Market (CACM) would
receive a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. base price or 50% of the
tariff payable, whichever is lower.
5.06      Minor contracts for civil works, materials and equipment which fall
below US$120,000 may be procured through local procedures satisfactory to the
Bank (including force account and mutual-help) up to the aggregate amount of
US$6.9 million. Prevailing wage rates will be used for portions of upgrad-
ing to be carried out through force account utilizing paid labor for each
community.
1/   The 2% rate will help capitalize the FSVM by enabling them to retain
a full 1% differential between borrowing costs and their rate to house-
holds.



- 24 -
5.07      A small revolving fund of US$300,000 was established under the
first project using resources of the loan/credit to facilitate prompt payment
of the small local contractors and suppliers with limited working capital who
have won all contracts to date. The facility has insured steady progress on
civil works and has helped lower contract costs by eliminating the need for
interim borrowing by contractors to cover payment uncertainties and/or delays.
Procedures and operations of the fund were inspected in October 1976 by the
Bank and adjustments made to ensure conformity with Bank guidelines. A similar
fund will be established using resources of the loan/credit in the amount of
US$300,000 under the second loan.
5.08      The Bank would disburse 100% of the total cost of civil works  for
serviced sites including on-site infrastructure, trunk water and sewerage
lines, water supply and core units; 41% of the total cost of construction
loans and FSVM administration; 70% of the total cost of upgrading including
infrastructure, community facilities, administration and construction loans;
47% of loan capital for the small business scheme; 50% of the cost of the
serviced site evaluation and 100% of total costs of technical assistance and
employment studies. These percentages reflect adjustment to earmarked funds
from other financing sources for each of the three executing agencies.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for those under force account
and administration for which disbursement would be made against a statement
of expenditure with full documentation retained on file for periodic inspec-
tion during supervision missions. Details of the disbursement plan together
with the estimated schedule are shown in Annex 9.
5.09      Because of the urgency of initiating work on the pilot upgrading
and serviced site components, retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 is
recommended to cover expenditures incurred from 1 January 1977 onward by FSVM
and IVU for design, administration and minor civil works.
D. Cost Recovery
5.10      About 83% of project costs will be recovered directly from benefi-
ciaries either through monthly mortgages, upgrading development charges and
small business loan repayments (77%) or utility rates of ANDA and CAESS
(6%) as shown in the table below. Government would cover costs of access
roads, drainage, primary schools, clinics and other community facilities
in project areas totaling 16% in accordance with national policy. Land for
these services priced at market values, however, would be paid for by bene-
ficiaries. Uncosted mutual-help labor contributions on government-financed
items (normally built by contract in higher-income communities), would
further increase effective cost-sharing by project beneficiaries, reducing
expenditures on items built in this manner by about 40%. Earmarked FSVM
grants would cover the remaining 1%.



- 25 -
Recovery Source (US$'000)
Water,
Amount       Mortgages  Sewerage &
(Including     and Direct  Electrical
Contingencies)    Monthly   Rates and   Government  Earmarked
Item                  (US$'000)        Charges    Charges    Revenues       Grants
Serviced Sites
Land                      2,837          2,837          -            -
On-site Infrastructure   4,058           3,314         744           -
Trunk Infrastructure      1,640             -          684          956
Core Units                5,668          5,668          -            -
Construction Loans        1,080          1,080          -            --
Administration            2,220          2,080          96           -           44
Community Facilities      2,876             -           -         2,876           -
Upgrading Pilot Scheme       375            357          -            18
Small Business
Credit                    3,237          3,237
Technical Assistance
and Training              260            260
Technical Assistance
and Training                 274                                     144         130
TOTAL                24,525         18,833       1,524       3,994         174
(%)                 (100%)          (77%)       (6%)        (16%)        (1%)
Serviced Sites
5.11      Beneficiaries would be charged full costs of serviced site develop-
ment including land, infrastructure, core units, water meters and connections,
materials loans, interim interest and administration except for the community
education officer financed by a special educational grant. The FSVM's unsub-
sidized pricing structure represents substantial progress in recent years in
identifying and recovering their real operational expenses.
5.12      Development costs per unit for the four service levels range from
¢ 2,000 (US$800) to e 7,000 (US$2,800). Sale prices would be adjusted to
reflect a 10% markup for locational advantages of lots with commercial
potential among major roads and intersections and generally a 15% markup
on units at the highest service level (see para. 5.19). Profits would be
applied to reduce the sale price of service level A to reach lower-income
groups, resulting in sale prices of between e 1,460 (US$580) and e 8,100
(US$3,240) with 75% of units selling for 1 3,100 (US$1,240) and less as



- 26 -
shown below. Differential pricing is expected to be more successful in the
second project due to the unified mortgage and interest rate and the more
marked differences in service levels (see para. 2.08).
Optional
Building
Development                       Materials
Service       Cost             Sale Price       Loan          Total        Total
Level   Colones  (US$)    Colones  (US$)         e     Colones  (US$)   Units
A       2,000      800      1,460     580      650      2,110     840    10
2,200/a   880      650      2,850   1,140      5
B       3,100   1,240       3,100   1,240      400      3,500   1,400    60
C       4,100   1,640       4,100   1,640       -       4,100   1,640    21
D       7,000   2,800       8,100   3,240       -       8,100   3,240      4
/a   Lots with commercial potential.
5.13      Terms to households will be 6.4% interest rate for both mortgages
and construction loans, representing a 0.4% increase over the current mort-
gage rate. This is above the 6% and 3% charged by IVU and Fondo Social and
allows about a 1% spread over FSVM's cost of borrowing (Annex la). 1/ Repay-
ment will be up to 20 years with no grace beyond the six months of mutual-help
construction. Down payments are made in the form of mutual-help labor which
represents about 10% of the development cost. Fundacion charges will include
collection, insurance over the life of the mortgage and a risk reserve of
about 5%. Payments will range from ¢ 12.70 to e 35.80 for 96% of units as
shown below (Colones):
Mortgage
/b                       Optional
MaiLi            Risk         Construc-   Total
Service    %   Mort- Insur/  te-  Collec-  Re-                 tion       Range
Level   Units  gage   ance  nance   tion   serve  Total   Loan    (Colones)
A       15   10.78   0.12   0.62   0.58   0.60   12.70   4.80   12.70-17.50
B       60   22.90   0.23   1.29   1.20   1.28   26.90   2.95   26.90-29.85
C       21   30.29   0.48   1.71   1.62   1.70   35.80    -             35.80
D        4   59.85   0.77   3.38   3.20   3.35   70.55    -             70.55
/_      2.875 per 1,000 of superstructure investment (contractor and mutual-help).
/b   0.5% of sale price per annum over mortgage life.
Ic   5% of the monthly charge subtotal.
1/   The 6.4% rate is considered realistic within the El Salvador context.
Although the inflation rate has been relatively high for the past 3
years it is now falling and, with the continuation of conservative
monetary policies by the Government, is expected to drop toward its
traditional 2-3% over the next few years. The proposed rate is there-
fore expected to represent a real rate of return.



- 27 -
5.14      Together with charges for water, sewerage, and municipal rates
covering street lighting, refuse collection, etc. total monthly payments
would range from e 16.40 (US$6.50) to e 39.50 (US$15.80) for 96% of units.
Costs of electrical house connections are not included as they are strictly
optional. Participants would be exempt from national property taxes since
home values fall below the e 25,000 minimum.
Range of Payment                                            Total
Service     Mortgage and              /               Municipal  Monthly Payment
Level    Construction Loan    Water-   Sewerage        Rates       (Colones)
A          12.70-17.50        1.95       0.45        1.30       16.40-21.20
B         26.90-29.85         1.95       0.45        1.30       30.60-33.55
C             35.80           1.95       0.45        1.30          39.50
D             70.55           1.95       0.45        2.05          75.00
/a   Based on a minimum charge for 15 m ; water and sewerage rates are de-
tailed in Annex 6.
5.15      Assuming a conservative monthly expenditure for shelter and utili-
ties of about 15% of total income, the first three service levels represent-
ing 96% of units would be affordable to families with monthly incomes between
¢ 110-260 representing the llth-44th percentile of the urban income distribu-
tion curve (Chart WB-16657).
5.16      The serviced site component of the second project would generate
small cash surpluses averaging about US$35,000 over the first four years,
rising to US$500,000 in 1981 and 1982. Annual surpluses drop to US$25,000 in
1983 when payments of principal begin, but rise steadily thereafter reaching
US$200,000 by 1987, when the cumulative surplus totals US$1.7 million.
5.17      Arrears exceeding three months from FSVM projects are running about
9% of households and about 4% for those exceeding six months. Average ar-
rearage stands at two months; FSVM has had no cases of default to date. The
costs of dealing with arrearages, default and foreclosure are not expected
to exceed about 3% of monthly payments and would be covered by a special risk
reserve of 5%.
5.18      The consolidated position of the agency including both the first
and second projects and other operations over the next 10 years shows a
surplus of about US$5.7 million by 1987. The project will therefore have a
significant capitalization effect on the FSVM. The revised cash flow for
the first project demonstrates the need for adjustments to the Bank's dis-
bursement categories necessitated by the Bank-approved shift of work from
contractor to mutual help. This has resulted in a decline in contractor
costs and rise in the agency's management/supervision costs. Specifically
the Bank should disburse against a higher proportion of administration and
materials loan costs from 1977 onward. The preceding flow figures assume



- 28 -
this adjustment. Total Bank contribution would remain the same. An addi-
tional Government contribution of about US$200,000 has also been granted
to cover interim interest costs. Assuming the preceding, the first project
would realize annual surpluses averaging about US$230,000 from 1976-1980,
leveling off at US$380,000 from 1981 onward.
5.19      A small percentage of mortgages may be sold to Fondo Social, an
autonomous agency capitalized primarily by a wage tax of 5.5%, bolstering
FSVM's liquidity in the early years of execution. The sole drawback to this
arrangement is the resulting discrepancies in mortgage interest rates to
households within FSVM sites since Fondo has recently introduced a 3-4% rate
to lowest income groups. Further discussions with Government regarding the
disruption of the overall mortage interest rate structure created by Fondo's
new rate will be held subsequent to completion of the Urban Study which will
specifically address the mortgage interest rate issue. Amounts realized
through resales would be used by FSVM or other agencies approved by the Bank
for development of units similar to those under the second project.
Upgrading Pilot
5.20      Full costs of upgrading including land, infrastructure, washing
areas, construction loans, administration and interim interest will be
recovered from residents. The costs of work undertaken will be affordable
to about 85% of the community assuming families of this income level could
afford only 10% of monthly income for a development and utilities payment. A
risk reserve will be established sufficient to cover anticipated defaults.
The preceding were confirmed during negotiations. Costs of schools, clinics,
and other community facilities representing about 4% of the pilot scheme
investment are normally paid by Government.
5.21      Development costs of the pilot scheme total about d 613,000 exclud-
ing community facilities and optional materials loans, or about ' 765 per
family (US$51 per capita). Another e 300 of materials credits will be
available to each household. Terms will be 6.4% and 20 years with no grace
resulting in monthly charges of between ¢ 6.85 (US$2.75) and ¢ 9 (US$3.60):
Land and                         Risk       Total        Optional      Total
Development   Collection (1%)  Reserve  Development  Construction   Ranges
Charge                          (20%)     Charge          Loan      (Colones)
5.65           0.06             1.14       6.85           2.20      6.85-9.05
Residents will also be assessed charges for sewerage, water and municipal
rates where appropriate. Only water will be provided in the pilot scheme
estimated at about e 0.50 per month, resulting in a total charge for im-
provements and utilities of between ¢ 7.35 (US$2.95) and e 9.55 (US$3.80).



- 29 -
5.22      Families unable to meet normal payments might be offered special
rental- tenure at a lower price to encourage maximum participation and insure
equitable treatment of those who do pay. An experimental incentive system
may also be tried under which sections making prompt and regular payments
would receive a rebate to be used for agreed community purposes. Those
unable to make any payment would not receive tenure rights but would be
adequately covered by the risk reserve. Incomes in the pilot community are
notably below those of the total population living in unauthorized settle-
ments (Annex 7). The V 6.85 development charge would be affordable to 92%
of this wider population representing the 6th percentile of the urban income
distribution curve (Chart WB-16657).
5.23      The pilot project would result in annual surpluses of about
US$20,000 from 1979-1981 dropping to US$9,000 in 1982 when the first Bank
payment falls due. From 1983 onward surpluses rise steadily resulting in a
cumulative balance of about US$130,000 by 1987. Since the pilot scheme is
quite small in relation to IVU's overall program, these surpluses would have
a minor effect on the agency's cash position (Annex 7).
5.24      Maintenance:  Water supply and sewer infrastructure built under
both the upgrading and serviced site components of the project will be turned
over to and maintained by ANDA, public lighting by the Municipality and
access roads and storm drainage by the Ministry of Public Works. Schools and
health clinics will be staffed, operated and maintained by the Ministries of
Education and Health, respectively. A minimum set of educational materials
conforming to the guidelines of the Ministry of Education will be provided
to the school in the pilot scheme. The operation and upkeep of community
centers will be the responsibility of each community.
Small Business Scheme
5.25      Costs of the Small Business Extension Scheme fall into three cate-
gories: credit, technical assistance and development of small commercial/
industrial sites. The latter is described in paras. 5.11-5.15. Recovery
will be dealt with as follows for the former.
5.26      All costs incurred by the Federacion for administration, lending
principal and training will be recovered from recipients of credit. Terms
for the three lending categories will be as follows:
Terms
% of         Annual        Repayment
Purpose             Revolving Fund   Interest         Period         Grace
Working capital            40             15%          1-2 years      6 months
Tools/equipment            40             15%          1-5 years    12 months
Workshop construction
or improvement           20             15%          2-12 years   12 months



- 30 -
The preceding terms to participants from the Federacion together with those
in para. 5.13 from FSVM and para. 5.21 from IVU were confirmed during nego-
tiations. The rate covers the estimated 6.6% financial cost of borrowings and
allows an 8.4% markup which includes 2.5% for administrative expenses, 1/ 1.5%
for bad debts, 1.5% in profits and capitalization, and 4.4% for training.
Although minimum amortization periods have been set, any borrower who chooses
to prepay a loan before the due date may do so without penalty. Similarly,
grace periods will be waived at the request of a borrower. Amortization will
be through level monthly payments of capital and interest. When a grace
period is granted, interest will be paid monthly.
5.27      New borrowers will also be charged a one-time application fee of
1.5% of the loan amount which would be paid in stages to enable lowest-income
families who generally have small amounts of cash or savings on hand access
to larger loan amounts for workshops or major equipment which will be amor-
tized over longer periods. One-third (0.5%) of the 1.5% application fee will
be paid upon submission of the loan application (non-refundable) and the re-
maining amount (1%) after loan approval. The latter will be paid only by
actual borrowers. On average, ¢ 100 in circulation for one year (first-time
borrower) would result in the following revenue and expense:
Expense (e)                         Revenue (¢)
Interest on borrowing      6.60       Interest on lending       15.00
Administrative costs       2.50       Application fee            1.50
Bad debts                  1.50
Training costs             4.40
Profit/capitalization      1.50
Total        ¢ 16.50                  Total        ¢ 16.50
Second-time borrowers would not be charged the 1.5% application fee resulting
in a slightly reduced income; however, both administration and training costs
should be lower in such cases, balancing the impact.
5.28      "Conventional" collateral will be available for tools/equipment and
workshop construction loans in the form of chattel and real property mortgages
or a lien on a tenant-purchase agreement, although the low value of such col-
lateral represents a new extension of the "conventional" concept. Equity in
serviced sites or in homes in unauthorized areas would also eventually serve
as collateral once tenure rights are issued. Insurance would be required by
the Federacion on properties securing larger loan amounts.
1/   Although short-term, small, working capital loans will be relatively more
expensive to administer than longer-term credits in larger amounts, the
surplus generated on the latter is expected to cover the higher adminis-
trative costs of the former.



- 31 -
5.29      Working capital loans will be secured through co-signing or shared
liability groups and by the borrower's savings. The group guarantee concept
has been borrowed from the "Popular Credit" program (Annex lb) where it has
proven quite effective. Signatures of between 5-10 individuals are sufficient
to establish a borrowing unit though it is not a legally registered entity.
All members lose their borrowing privileges if the group defaults. Since
alternative borrowing sources (traditional moneylenders) charge up to 12%
per day for a few days at a time, strong incentives exist for covering one
another's arrearages or even defaults.
5.30      The "self-financing" savings plan (Annex 3), to be applied only to
working capital loans, will assist entrepreneurs develop their own working
capital through regular savings. The plan also provides further security for
loans without traditional collateral. Savings will be built up over time,
eventually equal to about 50% of the average outstanding loan balance. The
amount saved per month will be about 5% of disposable family income. It was
confirmed during negotiations that annual interest will be paid on borrower's
savings deposits equal to the prevailing rate on savings deposits in commer-
cial banks. This rate, currently 6%, represents an increase over the Federa-
cion's 4% now paid under the Popular Credit. Amounts in excess of the out-
standing amount of the loan may be withdrawn without the borrower leaving
the system or a participant may prepay his loan and withdraw his savings
at any time without penalty. Such persons would not pay the "first time"
borrower's application fee again should they take another loan in future.
Together with the risk reserve, exposure would be reduced to less than 47% of
the average outstanding balance--a conservative figure in view of the strong
repayment incentives noted above. Risk coverage through the dual system of
savings and group guarantees has proven quite effective in the Popular Credit
Scheme.
5.31      The proposed pricing structure of the business scheme would result
in a net annual profit to the Federacion of about US$54,000 when fully
capitalized. Annual costs of the administrative unit (Annex 3) will amount
to about 2.5% of revolving capital. Provision for bad debts is based on
experience under the Popular Credit Scheme and is expected to prove adequate.
The project constitutes only about 19% of the Federacion's total portfolio
and would therefore result in a small addition to the overall profit position
which stood at 13% of gross income in FY76 (Annex lb).
5.32      At the termination of the first 12 months of operations, a mid-point
review will be made involving a study of the pricing structure and operating
procedures of the Urban Credit Program. The study will involve, inter-alia,
an assessment of the real administrative and training costs, arrearage and
default, loan initiation timetable, and overall profit/loss position to de-
termine whether the pricing structure during the first stage is financially
viable and what adjustments--if any--are required to insure that it remains
so. A report will be prepared 12 months after the program's initiation con-
taining proposed adjustments. During negotiations it was confirmed that fol-
lowing a joint review by the Government, the Federacion and the Bank, the
Urban Credit Program will be adjusted by mid-1978 to reflect pricing and
related guidelines agreeable to the Bank.



- 32 -
Reporting
5.33      Quarterly reports will be submitted simultaneously to Government
and the Bank by each of the three executing agencies, including internally
audited accounts. External audits are carried out for FSVM and the Federa-
cion by Price Waterhouse and Carlos Escalante (C.P.T.) respectively. Annual
audits by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be furnished
to the Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal year.
VI. Justification
6.01      The project is expected to generate a wide range of benefits some
of which are more quantifiable than others and all of which are directed
toward the poorest half of the urban population. Perhaps the most important
will be the establishment of institutional means by which lowest income
families can legally obtain land and credit at reasonable market values for
both homes and businesses. Land is a particularly limited commodity in
El Salvador, the control of even small quantities of which has been the
traditional means of generating wealth. The project will improve health
and living conditions and extend secure tenure to about 9,000 families repre-
senting about 7% of the total population in unauthorized areas. Legalization
of tenure in unauthorized settlements--if actively pursued by Government
beyond this initial effort--could eventually achieve socially significant
redistributive effects within a context of extreme imbalance where 5% of
landowners control nearly three-quarters of the country's areas.
6.02      Employment creation is estimated at about 6,450 man-years of wage
employment for the serviced site and upgrading components and another 4,800
jobs for the small business scheme at an average cost of US$735 per permanent
job (Annex 8). This compares very favorably to a targeted figure of US$654
per man-year for labor-intensive employment projects in this region by cur-
rent Bank standards. Figures for the small business lending program, how-
ever, must be considered tentative since little experience is yet available
on which to base employment factors. Direct construction within the serviced
site component would result in an estimated 6,400 man-years of work. About
half the upgrading will be undertaken through force account generating about
50 man-years of employment. Extensive self-help and mutual-help is involved
in both components through which otherwise unproductive time will be utilized
to creat a marketable asset with a cash value. The high participation rate
of women and school leavers (ages 10-18) in these activities represents one
means of effectively reducing the high level of un- and under-employment
with these groups. Extension of credit for small contracted labor as well
as materials under both serviced sites and upgrading would generate employ-
ment effects additional to those above. Training received during mutual-
help will enhance efficiency and productivity of participants continuing
to receive small construction jobs.
6.03      Establishment of credit lines to informal businesses is also
expected to result in increased family income on the order of about 10%



- 33 -
resulting from reduced borrowing costs and profits from larger turnover. A
better understanding of the exact nature and amount of employment and income
additions would be gained through the proposed evaluation (para. 3.22).
Unlike larger-scale industrial programs, the Federacion statistics indicate
that women tend to benefit in equal or greater measure than men from the
small credit scheme which is targeted on informal marketing and other activ-
ities frequently carried out in or near the home. Benefits derived from
access to credit at annual rates of 15% in a context where comparable bor-
rowings in the highly localized markets of small moneylenders may realize
financial returns of as much as 12% per day for short periods of a few days
are obvious. Since demand is expected to substantially exceed credit avail-
ability, the market value of such funds is expected to remain quite high.
6.04      The serviced site component of the project would produce a rate of
return of 18% based on a cost/benefit stream reflecting imputed rental values
for plots and dwellings similar to those being developed under the project.
Costs are for April 1977 and include physical but not price contingencies.
Land values reflect market prices and it is assumed that land would be sold
after 30 years. On-site infrastructure costs include earthworks, sewerage,
storm drainage, pathways, water and roads; those for administration cover
design and engineering supervision and management; mutual and self-help labor
is also included. Maintenance including collection is estimated at 0.5% per
annum of the cost of infrastructure core unit and materials loans over the
life of the dwelling.
6.05      On the benefit side imputed rental values were derived from a
survey of values for existing comparable serviced lots and dwellings in
several Salvadorean cities (The Popular Housing Study; FSVM, July 1976)
and spot surveys of similar areas. Values for the four service levels are
estimated at e 25 for Level A, ¢ 36 for Level B, ¢ 85 for Level C and e 145
for Level D. A conservative assumption has been made that full consolidation
of service levels A to B with the aid of construction loans would require a
full year and consolidation of B to a level close to C the same period. A
reduced value of ¢ 77 for Level B upgraded to Level C has been used since
materials loans would not enable full transition to the third service level.
6.06      Overall, the project presents a means of transferring a portion of
the economic benefits of development to the urban poor through channels which
require a sufficiently low level of Government subsidy (essentially in the
form of community services) so as to be widely replicable.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations Government confirmation was obtained that:
(a)  FSVM sites in San Salvador under both projects will re-
ceive preference by the water authority (ANDA) in the
supply of water delivered under Stage 1 of the Zona Norte
Phase I or other supply programs (para. 3.04);



- 34 -
(b) The water contingency plan will be initiated by FSVM at
the end of 1977 if progress on Zona Norte or other supply
schemes appears inadequate to assure timely water supply
for FSVM sites in metropolitan San Salvador, costs of
which will be charged to and recovered by ANDA (para.
3.04);
(c) Educational facilities such as laboratories, workshops,
and libraries will be available for adult training when
not in use by the regular school program, that teachers
of grades 1-6 in project schools will participate in
in-service training courses under the Bank's Second
Education Project (Loan No. 1007-ES) and that qualified
administrators and teachers in adequate numbers will be
employed to staff project schools (para. 3.11);
(d) Principles of upgrading will include:
- servicing standards based on phased improvement of
present services or introduction of basic--generally
shared--facilities;
- detailed design standards to be determined in consul-
tation with the affected population, reflecting com-
munity priorities and capacity to pay;
- provision of secure tenure;
- minimal resettlement with families displaced by in-
stallation of essential services to be relocated wher-
ever feasible in areas adjacent to the community; and
- full costs of upgrading including land, infrastructure,
washing areas, construction loans, administration and
interim interest will be recovered from residents.
Costs of work undertaken should be affordable to about
85% of the community. A risk reserve will be estab-
lished sufficient to cover anticipated defaults (paras.
3.16 and 5.20);
(e) Government will acquire all project sites and that in the
San Salvador metropolitan area at least 40 of the total
100 ha required will be purchased by May 1977 and the re-
mainder by the end of the year, if necessary by expropria-
tion (para. 4.04);
(f) Land prices charged to FSVM by IVU will cover only the
acquisition cost and an annual interest of 5% on the
outstanding balance (para. 4.04);



- 35 --
(g) FSVM will be responsible for construction of trunk water
and sewerage systems (para. 4.05);
(h) A special project unit will be created with specific
responsibilities for detailed design and implementation
of upgrading and the unit director and key staff will
be appointed following consultation with the Bank in
accordance with an agreed timetable (para. 4.13);
(i) The Government will onlend US$1.4 million of Bank Group
funds to the Federacion de Cajas de Credito, US$10.3
million of Bank Group funds to FSVM and US$0.2 million
of Bank Group funds to IVU (para. 5.04);
(j) Bank funds will be onlent at the same terms which Govern-
ment receives from the Bank to the Federacion and IVU at
the same interest rate and maturity, but 6 years' grace
to FSVM; IDA funds will be onlent at 2% interest to the
FSVM, Federacion and IVU with repayment over 30 years
including 6 grace for FSVM and over 20 years including
5 grace for IVU and the Federacion (para. 5.04);
(k) US$0.7 million will be passed to FSVM by Government for
construction of trunk infrastructure which will be turned
over to ANDA upon completion (para. 5.04);
(1)  ISU's terms to households for upgrading will be 6.4% and
20 years with no grace (para. 5.21).
7.02      Confirmation was obtained from FSVM that:
(a) Written assurances of financing sources have been secured
(para. 5.03); and
(b) Terms of households will be 6.4% for both mortgages and
construction loans and up to 20 years repayment with no
grace beyond the 6-month mutual-help construction (para.
5.13).
7.03      Confirmation was obtained from the Federacion de Cajas de Credito
that:
(a) A new Urban Credit Department will be established and the
Department Read named no later than September 30, 1977
(para. 4.20);
(b) Terms to households will be 15% interest with repayment
and grace periods of 1-2 years/6 months maximum for
working capital, 1-5 years/12 months maximum for tools
and equipment and 2-12 years/12 months maximum for work-
shop construction (para. 5.26);



- 36 -
(c) Annual interest will be paid on borrowers' savings de-
posits equal to the prevailing rate on savings deposits
in commercial banks (para. 5.30); and
(d) Following a joint review by the Government, the Federacion
and the Bank, the Urban Credit Program will be adjusted
by mid-1978 to reflect pricing and related guidelines
agreeable to the Bank (para. 5.32).
7.04      Subject to agreement on the preceding points the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$6.7 million and an IDA credit of US$6 million.



ANNEX la
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
EXCUTING AGENCIES
A. The Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo
y Vivienda Minima (FSVM)
1.        The Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima (FSVM) is
a private, non-profit entity created by Executive Decree No. 768, dated June 16,
1970. The organization's basic objective has been to improve the living
conditions of the lowest-income population, especially those living in squatter
settlements. Its aim is to provide shelter to households whose incomes are so
low as to exclude them from Government and private sector housing projects. The
FSVM has been successful in achieving this objective through self-help sites
and services projects and related programs primarily under the first urban loan
from the Bank. To date, FSVM has planned, designed and constructed over 4,000
serviced sites in seven cities throughout El Salvador, and has become the major
producer of lowest-income housing.
Background
2.        FSVM's activities date back to September 1968, when a group of con-
cerned citizens under the leadership of Padre Ibanez (Jesuit priest) relocated
69 families left homeless after a flooding of the Acelhuate River at La Chacra
in the eastern section of San Salvador. The group demonstrated its ability to
achieve a low-cost solution affordable to the lowest-income sections of the
population--about US$700 for a 66 m2 serviced lot including land, individual
electricity and water supply reticulation, individual technical unit for wash
basin, shower and toilet facilities (pila and bano), the core house and related
infrastructure.
3.        In 19741, the Bank granted the Government a US$6 million credit and a
US$2.5 million loan for a serviced site program of which FSVM is the executing
agency (see Report No. 473a-ES, September 20, 1974). Under this loan, FSVM is
to prodwoe 7,000 serviced sites between 1976 and 1978 in addition to the 1,020
units built prior to the first loan.
4.        This experience has given FSVM sound planning and implementation ex-
perience. FSVM has demonstrated its ability to manage large-scale housing
programs efficiently and innovatively.
Organization of the FSVM
5.        The organizational structure of FSVM is shown in Chart 16457.  The
twelve-member Board of Directors is elected by the General Assembly of sub-
scriber members (currently 200 members, many of whom are participating house-
holds) to serve for two years. The Board meets bi-monthly to decide general
policy issues as well as specific matters put forth by the FSVM management. Both
the General Manager and tke Executive Director attend Board meetings but do not
have a vote. The Board of Directors is made up of eminent Salvadoreans from a
broad range of economic activities. The General Assembly members are drawn



ANNEX la
Page 2
from a wide spectrum of society including entrepreneurs, workers and
residents of squatter settlements. The Assembly meets once a year to
elect the Board of Directors and approve the annual financial statement.
6.        The Technical Operations Division of the FSVM has designed,
engineered and supervised the construction of all units built to date.
The in-house capacity for design and implementation has greatly benefited
unit and layout designs in that it offers continuity and evolution of de-
sign concepts. This in turn has resulted in greater flexibility and more
appropriate low-cost designs (see Detailed Features, Annex 4).
7.        Present FSVM staff totals about 100.  The agency is currently
producing an average of about 1,500 units per year. For the second loan,
additional staff will be required to increase the output to 2,300. These
will be primarily in the Technical Operations Division and the Social Action
Division. The Finance Division will not expand substantially; all FSVM
accounts, collections and financial studies will be computerized beginning
in 1977. A Comptroller's Department will be created to handle FSVM's audit-
ing, financial studies and improved budgeting-by-accounts procedures. During
the next four years the total full-time staff of FSVM is expected to grow
from 50 professional and 60 support staff to about 60 professional and 75
support staff.to execute the 8,000 units. Due to the small area of the
country, and its excellent Pan-American road network, project execution in
the secondary towns poses little difficulty for head office staff who can
visit on-site offices and return to San Salvador the same day.
8.        FSVM will also expand its physical plant to accommodate the
additional staff. Its present central office will be enlarged to handle
short-term space requirements. Future plans include relocation of the Coop-
erative Department and the Research Department to an Annex building, or if
necessary, relocation of all operations to rental space. Additional furniture
and equipment--including an IBM computer and two-way radio communication to
vehicles and project sites--has been budgeted to meet project implementation
requirements.
Financial Position
9.        The balance sheets of the FSVM for the three years ending December
31, 1973, 74 and 75 prepared by Price Waterhouse and Co., are presented in
Table 1. Net assets have risen from about ¢ 2.0 million in 1973 to ¢ 2.3
million in 1975. During 1974-75 FSVM made one accounting change regarding
the treatment of donations. Previously, an entry was made in the Social Fund
at the time the donation was authorized and signed. In 1975, this system was
changed in that the entry regarding donations is now made when the cash proceeds
are actually received. The effect of this change was that the Social Fund
dropped in 1975. If comparison is made including donations promised but not
yet received, the total capital fund increased by 35% in 1975. Assets more
than doubled in 1975 due principally to a more than two-fold increase in the
volume of projects under construction. On the liabilities side, the amount
of outstanding loans tripled while funds owed to contractors increased by five
times reflecting the first phase of contracts signed under the first urban
project.



ANNEX la
Page 3
10.       The serviced site component of the second project will be financed
through the following sources and at the following terms (US$'000):
Terms
Amortization     Grace
Source           Amount          Interest           (years)        (years)
Bank Group
IDA               5,206             2%                30        6 on principal
IBRD              5,080             8.5%              20        6 on principal
IVU                  2,837             5%                20             none
Banco Hipotecario       900            9%                15             none
Donations               300            --                --              --
GOES                    700            --                --              --
Sub-Total    15,023
Medium-term
Borrowings
(Central Bank)       175             9%                 5            none
TOTAL        15,198
Average borrowing costs to FSVM will therefore be 5.1% interest and 23 years
repayment. The 6.4% rate to households allows a markup of 1.3%. IVU repay-
ment would begin at the time of site occupancy by households.
11.       The serviced site component of the second project would generate
small cash surpluses averaging about US$35,000 over the first four years
rising to US$500,000 in 1981 and 1982. Annual surpluses drop to US$25,000
in 1983 when payments of principal begin, but rise steadily thereafter
reaching US$200,000 by 1987, when the cumulative surplus totals US$1.7 million.
12.       In assessing the overall financial position of the agency, a re-
vised cash flow has been prepared for the first project (Table 3) including
other operations of FSVM. It is clear from this flow that adjustments are
required in the Bank's disbursement schedule to to accommodate the many re-
visions to overall project design discussed in the main body of this report.
The changes involve increasing the disbursement percentage for administration
costs and materials loans. The flow assumes the adjustments will be made and
further assumes an additional Government grant of US$200,000 in 1976 to help
cover interim interest payments. On this basis, the first project would
realize annual surpluses averaging about US$230,000 between 1976 and 1980,
leveling off at US$380,000 from 1981 onward.
13.       Other operations of FSVM (Table 3) are typically covered by ear-
marked grant or loan sources, and are expected to either break even or
generate a small surplus over time resulting from repayments from the 1,000
units built with grant funds prior to initiation of the Bank's first project.
14.       A comprehensive picture of the cash position of the agency as a whole
over the next ten years is presented in Table 4. A surplus is generated over
this period of US$5.7 million. Although the repayment of the long-term IDA
obligation (30 years) under the second project will extend beyond the termin-
ation of payments by beneficiaries (20 years), there will remain a considerable
net surplus and the project will therefore have a capitalization effect on FSVM.
April 6, 1977



ANNEX la
Table 1
FSVM BALANCE SHEETS
1973-1975
(Colones)
December 31
1975          19714             1973
ASSETS
DjanLh-  rld- -Tvrm Iwryestmnents
Bank deposits                           85,268          5,946
Short-term investments                 606,605        776 439
Subtotal     h9,73-:r2Sy                      6140,000
Accounts Receivable
Payments on mortgages                2,583,710      1,441,550           171,000
Reimbursement in process (IDA)         436,694           -                 -
Cooperative development loans          118,807         61,437           117,000 
Other                                  157,133         56,141              -
Bad debts provision                    (64,000)       (64,000)       _
Subtotal   3,232,344      1,495,128           288,000
Invent=r
Housing units not yet allocated        428,150        131,800              -
Construction in progress             3,763,993     1,421,222          1,476,000
Construction materials                 265,943         84,227           107,000
Land                                   171,009         18,000            18,000
Subtotal   4,629,095      1,655,249         1,601,000
Furniture, equipment, tools              176,406        112,264
Miscellaneous                             81,645         51,007            32,000
TOTAL      8,811,363      4,096,033         2,628,000
LIABILITIES
Contract Obligations                   1,066,566        196,176
Accounts Payable                         529,476        134,927           167,000
Loans                                  3,907,201      1,313,937           '30,000
Subtotal   5,503,243      1,645,040           ,97,000
Earmarked Funds for Projects
not yet Executed                      992,364           _                 _
"Social Fund" (net assets)             2,315,756      2.450.993         2,031,000
TOTAL      8,811,363      4,096,033         2,628,000
a/ Marked as "accounts receivable--short-term" only.
Source: Price, Waterhouse & Co. audits.



EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
CASH FLOW
SECOND SERVICED SITE PROJECT (FSVM)
(US$ '000)
1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988     1989
Year         1        2         3         4        5         6         7         8        9         10       11         12       13
SOURCES
IDA Credit                                    799    3,467       940
IBRD Loan                                                      3,880    1,200
IVW                                                            1,418    1,419
Banco Hipotecario                             250       300      350
Donations                                      65       100      100        35
GOES aJb/                                     -         120      240       340
Medium-Term Boyrowings-                                           175
Loan Payments-c
--Mortgage Payments                                             214       847    1,267    1,267    1,267    1,267    1,267    1,267    1,267    1,267    1,267
--Insurance, Collection, Maintenance,
Risk Reserve                                                 36       144       216      216       216       216       216      216       216       216       216
--Construction Loans                                                       45        90       90        90        90        90       90        90        90        90
Tota\ Sources        1,114    3,987    7,353    4,030    1,573    1,573    1,573    1,573    1,573    1,573    1,573    1,573    1,573
USES
Land                                                            1,418    1,419
On-site Infrastructure                        331    1,491    1,492
Core Units                                    283    1,700    2,835        850
Construction Loans                                                540      540
Administration                       di       450       675       675      324
Maintenance, Collection, Insurance--                               21        85      127       127       127       127      127       127       127      127        127
Debt Amortizat on
--IDA Credi e/                                          16        85      104       104       104       275      275       275       275       275     275        275
--IBRp/Loan-K/                                19        38      173       380       432       432      763       733       702       671      640      609        578
35      113       227       227       227      227       227       227       227      227        227
--Banco llipotecario-/   i                              31        68      112       112       112       112      112       112       112       112     112        112
--Medium--Term Borrowings-                                                 45        45        45        45       45
Total Uses            1,083    3,951    7,342    3,972    1,047    1,047    1,549    1,519    1,443    1,412    1,381   1,350              1,319
Annual Surplus/(Deficit)                         31       36        11        58      526       526        24        54       130       161      192      223        254
Cumulative Surplus/Deficit                      31        67        78       136      662    1,188    1,212    1,266    1,396    1,557    1,749   1,972            2,226
a/ Government grant assumes the following schedule of -ayments (US$ '000) for various uses:
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980         Total
First Project        20    120    180    300    200    100                  920
Second Project                                     120    240    340        700
Other FSVM
Activities         80      20
Total (US$)      100    T5    TOU        M      320 TM              -
(Colones) 250    350    450    750    800    850    850
b/ Required for interim interest and to cover deferred Government payments for administration.  c/ 6.4% interest, 20 years, no grace.  Insurance collection & risk
reserve estimated at 17% surcharge on mortgage payment. Payments assume 5% default. d/ Estimated at 10% of mortgage payments. e/ 27,, 30 years, 6 grace.
fI 8.5, 20 years, 6 grace.  Level payments of principal.  g/ 5%, 20 years, no grace but payment at the time of occupancy.  h/ 9%, 15 years, no grace.
i/ 9t, 5 years, no grace.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ,,



ANNEX la
EL SALVADOR
Secornd Urban Development Project                                 Table   3
REVISED CASH FLOW
FIRST SERVICED SITE PROJECT (FSMW)
rUS' 000 )
74h  1975    137f.   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
- 9' SER'VICED SITE PROJECT (Revised)
S.urces
:DA .'cdit a/                                  89/  1i,16o   1,688   1,456
IBRD Loan  f7                                                             717   1,783
Banco Hipotecario                       92    135       139      558
Other Lo.ans, (Marykn.oli)            188                     1,000
COES Grant j                            20    120       180      300     200      100
NOVIB Grar,t                                                     100      100     125
Short-terr borrowings                         232
COrS Supplement                                         200
!s'aments by Householis
Mortgagges J                                             20      229      497     592      959     959      959      959     959      959      959      959
Insurance, Maintenance, Risk, etcoe/                      3       39      85      100      163     163      163      163     163      163      163     163
Materials Toans                                           7       22       37      52       78     109      109      109     109      109      109     109
To.tal Sources                  300  1,383    2,509   3,936   3,092   2,752   1,200   1,231   1,231   1,231   1,231   1,231   1,231   1,231
set
hand                                   120    321       141   1,530
Desi_/Engineering Supervision           54    152       147      230     75        46
-nfrastrtcture (on-site)                98    377       580      460    750       735
Core 'nits                              58    273       854      750  1,150       843
A,ministration 97
a) Gen/Fin,/Soc charge                25     97       170      130    120       110       72
b)  Community Development                     3C       50       80    100       100      116
Material Loans                                  78      150      150    155       270      326
Technical Assistance/Training            8      21                24      24       24       24
.knortization of Debt:
IDA i/                                         4       17       57     90      120       120     317      317      317     317      317      317     317
13RD J:                                        9       18       18     41      100       200     237      237      237     237      237      237     237
Banco Hipotecario ,'                         12        15       27'    69       71        81      81       81       81      81      81        81      81
Other Loans (Maryknoll) U                      9                 3    119      119       119     119      119      119     119    119        119     119
Short-term  borrowings                                232
lsVor3ance Maintenance m/                                 2       23      50      59        96      96       96       96       96     96        96      96
r^ta  Cnes                   363  1,383    2,376   3,459  2,743   2,597    1,154          850     850      850     850    850        850     850
- -uala ?SOT2V  CO5ieficit)j
First  roJect                         (63)             133      477      349     155       46     381      381      381     381      381      381     381
fIrst -Proec                 -                           13                        15       46      31        8
Su'pl"ls from prevjous years         157
Payments from bouseholds:
Downpayments                        20
M,rtga,ges                          21       38     36        40      40      40        40      40       40       40      40       40       40      40
Id?n'if5ed Donations:
COES                                80      20
fYterl el '  /                     110       39    247       509     259    155        104
ltca     -                         136     156      14        39      28      45        30
Total Sources                  524     253    297        588     3 27   240       174       40       40      40       40       40      40       4"
'ses
Project Investment                    193         7
Maintenance                            49         6      17       16       20     24        25       25      25       25       25      25       25       25
DebtAncrtization                        3         6      3         7        7      7         7        7       7        7        7       7        7        7
Salaries/Administration               194       225    261       548      287    200       133
Tctal 'uses               439       244    281       571      314    231       165       32       32      32       32       32      32       32
SarolIus/(Defisit) -
-rera:isns                    85         9      16        17      13       9       9         8        8       8        8        8         8      3
Arrxel hgency Surplus/(Deficitj       22         9    149       494      362    164       55       389     389      389     389      389       389    3839
7osulative Surplus/(Deficit)           22        31    180       674   1,036  1,200   1,255    1,644   2 ,033   2,422   2,811   3,200    3,589   3,9K
a/ Disbursement as indicated in legal documents until revised in 1977.
b For land acquisition.
"I  See breakdown for first and second proJects-in second project cash flow footnotes.
L ot completion: 510 mid 1976, 2150 mid 77, 1000  Jan. 78, 1400 mid 79 and 2000 Jan. 1980.
eJ Estimated at 17% of mortgage payment.
g/  Including US$300,000 revolving fund: a reimbursement lag occurred between 1975 and 1976.
/ 8%, 20 years, no grace, assuming 5%dCfo3u1--
h' Assuming community development costs are colarged
to households.
/ 2%, 30 years, 6 grace.
8%, 30 years, 6 grace.
7/ ', 25 years, 2 grace.
/Iterest free, 10 years.
T%,IFEtimated at 10% of mortgage payment.
1.7'  Scurce: Dec. 1976 Summary of grants by FSVM.



EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
COMPREHENSIVE CASH FLOW
FSVM
(US$ '000)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
FIRST SERVICED SITE PROJECTa'
Annual Surplus/(Deficit)    (63)   -        133    477    349    155       46    381    381    381    381    381    381    381
SECOND SERVICED SITE PROJECThl/
Annual Surplus/ (Deficit)                            31     36      11     58    526    526       24      54    130    161    192
OTHER OPERATIONSb,h
Annual Surplus/(Deficit)       85     9      16      17     13       9      9       8       8      8       8      8       8      8
Total (Annual)            22      9     149    525    398    175    113    915    915    413    443    519    550    581
Total (Cumulative)        22    31      180    705  1,103  1,278  1,391  2,306  3,221  3,634  4,077  4,596  5,146  5,727
a/ See Table 2.
b/ See Table 3.



ANNEX lb
El Salvador
Second TJrban Development Project
FEDERACION DE CAJAS DE CREDITO
A. Charter and Ownership
The Federacion
1.        The Federacion de Cajas de Credito is a limited liability cooperative
society established in 1943 for the purpose of assisting small enterprises through
loans and technical assistance. The agency draws its charter and authority from
the 1943 Rural Credit Law (Ley de Credito Rural, Decreto Legislativo Numero 113,
January 1943) as amended and/or reformed through five subsequent actions, the
last being Legislative Decree Number 466, 5 February 1976. As a national associa-
tion of credit unions, it consists of 39 individual "cajas" or cooperative
societies located throughout El Salvador embracing a total membership of about
48,600. In addition, another 21,000 individuals receive credit or assistance
through special direct programs for non-member individuals, groups, cooperatives,
or companies. The agency and its affiliates therefore serve a total of about
67,000 families throughout the country, or roughly 10% of the population.
2.        The agen2v is ossentiaily an autonomolus state enterprise that operates
as a private financial intermediary. The stockholders of the central agency are
as follows:
Number     Equity in        %
of Shares   us$  o000     Ownership
The Government of El Salvador
(Ministry of Economy)               1,000       40.0         49.0
Banco Hipotecario de El Salvador
(another state enterprise)          1,000       40.0         49.o
Thirty-nine Affiliated Cajas
(one share each)                       39        1.6          2.0
Total shares outstanding            2,039       81.6         100.0
Affiliated Cajas
3.        Affiliated cajas are individually constituted under their respective
charters as cooperative societies with their own stockholder members, board of
directors, management and staff, conforming to the provisions of the Rural Credit
Law and the Commercial Code (Codigo de Comercio) of El Salvador. The society
can be limited liability or shared-limited liability, whereby each stockholder-
member liability can exceed his own capital contribution up to a maximum of
/2,000 (us$8oo). There must be a minimum of thirty stockholder-members to
constitute a caja. Each stockholder can hold up to ¢10,000 (us$4,ooo).
Autonomous state enterprises may hold more than the maximum. Each shareholder has
one vote, regardless of stock holdings. Currently a share in an affiliated caja
is worth ¢10 (US$4).



ANNEX lb
Page 2
4.        The consolidated stockholders capital of the 39 affiliated cajas
as distinct from the Central Agency is shown below for FY75. Capital has
increased each year for the last six years (1971-1976) as a result of
increased membership in the system.  Generally a new borrower is
obliged to buy shares in the respective caja he is dealing with if the
requested credit is greater than ¢500 (US$200). The Popular Credit Program
is excluded from this provision. The new member buys one share for each
¢1,000 (tis$400) borrowed up to a maximum of three required shares.  He can
acquire additional shares up to the maximum established by law, should he so
desire:
Cajas Capital Stock
(April 30, 1976)
Equivalent  Equity in   Equity in       %
Stockholder          No. Shares   Colones    US$ '000    Ownersl-K
Stockholder Member              248,258    2,482,580      993.0      91.0
Banco Hipotecario de El
Salvador                      13,558      135,580       54.2       5.0
Mejoramiento Social, S.A.
(Ivu)                        10,398       103,980       41.6       3.8
Other                               626        6,260        2.5         .2
Total Shares Outstanding        272,840    2,728,400    1,091.4    100.0
B.  Current Lending Operations
Program Description
5.        The Federacion operates credit programs of two types:  a) those
operating with Central Office resources, capital and borrowings and (b) those
"administered" under specific legal authority granted by the government.  C. dit
programs operating with Central Office resources, capital and borrowings fall
into two general categories with a variety of loan conditions available:
(a)  Rural credit:  involving loans of up to ¢80,OOO (US$32o0o0) per
recipient for small farmers, poultry, fishermen, cattle raisers,
beekeepers, etc. Such lending operations are accompanied by
technical assistance in the fields of marketing studies for basic
grains, sugar cane, and other agricultural products as well as
studies of fertilizers and other issues related to increasing the
productivity of small farmers and rural producers. This class of
service accounts for 52% of the total approved financing by the
Federacion in FY76;
(b) Commercial credit: including loans to rural commercial enterprises
as well as a special program in urban areas called the "Popular
Credit" scheme which has dealt to date largely with stall holders
in small markets. Commercial credit accounts for approximately 19%
of approved financing in the above period;



ANNEX lb
Page 3
(c)  Educredito: an education support program ofi'ering loans for vacations
or professional eduicational purposes.  The Federacion is one of the
financial intermediates in this program initiated h. the government.
It draws fLnancial support from. the Goverrnment of El Salvador and
from foundations and the private sector within the count-r: an- from
abroad.  Onlv about 2' of financing is invested in this cat'egorv;
(d)  FOCCO Produictive Credit: is the most recent special program.  The
objective is stimulation of -mplyment and income in those rural
areas wheue FOCCO infra6truc0-ure programs have identified opporturi-
ities to organize viable productive cooperatives.  The program is
funded by 01,500,000 (US$600,000o line of credi+ in calendar 1976
but has not generated much lpndin2 to date.
(e) Other operations, including professional services, marketing
assistance, etc., account for 8%.
6.        Programs admThi_Tered under specifi-c government authorit-r and
compri.sing arnther 19'% of Federacion approved finanncing, are:
(a)  The Off-cials and inployees Fund:  constituting a rafinanc-ng semride
for employees and officials of both public and private institutions.
Finds for this program, established by national law u'ith government
funding, are kept segregated from other operations.  Profits generated
can only be reinvested in the same program. Capital cannot be deviated
to other funds.
(b)  The Employees Retirement Fund:  a complement to Social Securityr.
This fund, also established by national law, is funded by employ,Ter
and employee contributions through payioll deductions.  Profi`s
generated car only be reirvested in the same program or uised to pay
out pensions.  Capital cannot be deviated to other fu:ds.
7.        As of April 1976, the limits on amounts individual users could
borrow within eaclr program were as follows:
Colones          IJS$_
Aericultural Progfram Individual
User Credit Limit                          80,OnO          32,000
Cooperative User Credit Limit                 37'.000        1
IndustryT and Handicrafts Program
Individual User Credit Limit               30,000          32,000
CooDeratives User Credit LIimit                75,000         'C. C00
CommrEerce Program, All UserS Timl t          60,000          ^ .2C0
i]' Programs cther than Agricultural,
Industry and Handicrafts, Commierce,
Credit lrmit per UJser                    210,o03          is,00C
Popular Credit Program
All Users Credit limit                      l,200             IC



ANNEX lb
r age 4
Perhaps the most striking feature of the Federacion is its capacity to
administrate a rather large number of very small loans. Approximately 70% of
the individual credits extended are for amounts between 025-500 (US$10-200).
Another 23% are for sums between ¢500 (US$200) and 02,000 (US$800). Only about
2% are for amounts of over ¢5,000 (US$2,000). Total credits approved in FY75
numbered about 35,700 (see Table 1). In order to handle this volume of small
operations the agency's accounting has been canputerized. In addition, their
highly decentralized structure facilitates the delegation of a substantial
proportion of loan identification and loan preparation, both of which are rela-
tively costly and time consuming to the local level where knowledge of the poten-
tial borrower is the greatests
8.        Terms to borrowers differ depending on the use of the credit.  Interest
rates are subject to approval by the Monetary Board which is authorized to establisV
interest ceilings but not floors. Rates approved as of April 1976 and the
Federacion's resulting spread are as follows:
Central Bank  Central    Rate to Borrower
to the       Office-a/   From         From
Program                   Federacion   to Caja  Central Office Caja
Agricultural
Coffee                        4.5          5.5           -           7.0
Cotton                        1.5          4.5          7.0          9.0
Basic Grains                  1.5          4.5          6.0          9.0
All Other                     4.5          7.5          9.0         12.0
Non-agricultural
Small Business, Commerce
and Industry, Artisans    4.5            7.5          9.0         12.0
FOCCO                           2.0           -            -           5.0
Federacion  Funded Programs    -              -            -          13.0-
a/ The Federacion charges the cajas an additional service fee equal to 0.75% on
agricultual programs.
b/ The.Federacion charges 12% on declining balances for non-agricultural programs
which it funds and 12% on original principal on the Popular Credit program
loanis.
Mostlending is for short-term periods of below 3 years (Table 2). Over 70% of
the loans granted are for one year or less, and about 91% below 3 years. Such
short-term lending is for relatively small amounts, absorbing only about one-
third of the total financing for loans of one year or less, and 60% for loans
up to three years. Therefore the small portion of mediam- and long-term credit
(9%) accounts for less than half of total lending. Long-term lending is
restricted by the short-term nature of the Federacion's financing sources.
Nearly three-quarters of their borrowings fall within the latter category.



ANNEX lb
P_ag_e 5T
Lending Trends
9.        During 1971 the Federacion substantially reorganized its financial
and administrative operations. A sharp rise in lending resulted in 1971 and
continued through 1976. The overall portfolio, which had stagnated at about
¢18 (US$7.2) million from 1965-1970, rose to 022 (US$8.8 million
months and exceeded this pace in the following years to reach a total of 948
(US$19.2) million by 1976 as shown in Chart 1.
10.       The Rural Credit Program has also shown significant growth in recent
years. Rural lending has tended toward a declining number of recipients but
larger amounts per loan. In the twelve months from June 1, 1974 to May 31,
1975, for example, the number of credits extended dropped slightly from 8,150
to 8,000, although the volume of credit rose by 9% to 020 (US$8) million. Total
rural lending increased again in FY 1976, this time more sharply by 25% to
024.9 (US$9.96) million. Over the same period, the employees refinancing scheme
declined both in numbers of recipients (30%) and the volume of financing (16%)
in FY 1975, only to experience an even more dramatic recovery in FY 1976. In
that year, total lending increased over 50% to 08.4 (US$3.4) million.   The
Popular Credit program, like Rural Credit, has shown significant growth in
recent years. During FY 1976, capitalization was increased by 29% to over
US$300,000 (0785,544 or US$314,218). The number of loans has also
risen substantially in recent years totaling 22,400 by June 1975, representing
an increase of 22% over the preceding year. Although the Popular Credit
Program is small in terms of the agency's total portfolio, it reaches three
times the number of families of other types of programs and represents nearly
two-thirds of all the loans made by the Federacion. It is growing faster than
any other lending component.
Popular Credit Scheme
12.       The Popular Credit scheme is the one segment of the Federacion's
program geared toward urban lending and is the model on which the Urban Credit
scheme is based. It is designed as a short-term working capital program for
market vendors to provide the means to finance day-to-day operating as well as
growth needs. More importantly the program frees users from usurious money-
lenders.  Loans may range from 025 (US$10) to 01,200 (US$480) and are made for
45 to 120-day cycles. Above ¢1,200, borrowers may apply under the Commercial
Lending Program which reauires more formal collateral. The average loan is
about ¢150 (US$60), and is repaid within 2 months. Assistance to date has
predominantly been to stallholders in small retail markets in secondary towns
and areas surrounding metropolitan San Salvador.
13.       Loans are extended to groups of approximately ten individuals who
constitute an informal borrowing unit. Each group elects a chairman and col-
1l _r who are vetted by the Federacion. Initially loans may be extended to
all members of the group, but eventually a revolving credit system is established
whereby members guarantee one another. No other form of collateral is required,
nor, in fact, is generally available in the case of such small informal businesses.
Payment records to date, however, appear good, probably due to the fact that
alternative private credit sources would charge as much as 12% per day for similar



ANNEX lb
Page 6
unsecured amounts (the Federacion charges 12% per annum). Ample incentive
exists therefore to insure members maintain the credit standing of the group
as a whole.  Although no separate records of past due are available for
Popular Credit under the agency's present accounting system, arrearage is
estimated at about 18%. No regular bad debts review takes place and no clear
follow-up and/or writeoff procedure exists. Several groups have been dormant
for over 12 months with balances still outstanding. New procedures for
accounting and periodic review and evaluation have been established for the
Urban Credit component of the proposed project which will encompass the Popular
Credit scheme as well (see main text).
14.       Selection of borrowers in any given market generally begins by word-of-
mouth information of credit availability stimulated by the Federecion. Interested
stall operators are prescreened for eligibility for a per-manent stall in the market
and for consistency in meeting tax payment obligations at the local municipal hall.
The market administrator is interviewed concerning the most reliable and dependable
stall operators. Stall operator candidates are then invited by a Federacion
representative to a meeting where the Popular Credit program is explained. This
initial meeting generally creates sufficient interest to have potential user groups
formed on the spot. Each of the top 10 to 15 persons is invited to the meeting to
confidentially list those persons with whom they would like to form a mutually-
liable credit group. Final selection is made from these lists.
15.       Collection is normally on a daily basis, each user having a daily
repayment quota. Payment is evidenced by a card which is punched for each daily
quota as received and initialed with the date of payment. Due to normal fluctua-
tions in income, however, users frecuently do not pay daily. If-several days
elapse but full payment is eventually received the intervening days are punched
on the card with only the last day initialed. The card is prepared in duplicate--
one for the user and one for the Federacion.
16.       The pricing structure on small loans includes a savings plan which
is intended to help the borrower establish his own operating capital and begin
to plan for normal fluctuations in expenditures from month to month. Two special
funds are therefore included in repayments, one for "self-financing" (operating
capital) and another for "Christmas savings." A typical loan of ¢100 over two
months (60 days) would therefore realize the following total repayment:



ANNEX lb
Page 7
(Colones)
(a)  Capital                                                 100.00
(b)  risk reserve:  1.6% of the principle amount
of the loan                                               1.60
(c)  loan administration:  1.2°! of the principle
of the loans                                              1. 20
(d)  Christmas savings:  4.8% of the principle amount
of the loan to be returned during December of
the same or following year (upon demand)                  4.80
(e)  self-financing fund:  8% of the principle amount
of the loan to be returned after a minimum of
24 months                                                 8.00
(f)  interest:  at 12% per annum, uncompounded
(i.e. 1% per month)                                       2.00
(g)  collection charge:  2% of the total of the above          2.40
Subtotal        120.00
Of these charges, the recipient is eventually
returned his deposits against (d) and (e)
plus 4% non-compounded annual interest on the
deposit                                                 -12.80
Total Actual Charge    107.20
Given a total actual credit cost of 7.2% on a 60-day loan cycle and the practice
of charging the fees with each cycle, the Popular Credit user who continually
rolls over his loan will pay in total interest and fees 43% of his loan credit
line in the course of a year. The Popular Credit scheme is therefore relatively expen-
sive though still dramatically below alternative costs of borrowing (moneylenders).
17.       Risk on this type of lending is actually quite minimal despite its
appearance of being secured only by a group guarantee. In most cases, groups
retain a permanent line of credit whereby several members will have loans out-
standing at any given time. "Repeat" customers will therefore build up savings
accounts for self-financing and Christmas which effectively serve to secure
subseauent loans. If, for example, an individual borrows ¢100 for a 60-day period
four times within one year, his self-financing deposit will constitute ¢32 and
his Christmas fund another ¢19, totaling ¢5l or nearly half the value of his total
credit, and the full value of his average outstanding principle. In fact, the
Federacion's balance sheet figures show total savings almost equal to total loan
balance outstanding. The degree of risk is thereby substantially reduced.



ANNEX lb
Page 8
18.       Popular Credit has been quite profitable for the Federacion,
enjoying good returns the past four years. In FY 1975, while the program
represented 13% of the institution's total volume accounts, it accounted for
15% of its total net profits. The program had a net return rate of 22.5% on
average outstanding loan portfolio in FY75, as shown below:
Average
Central              Outstanding
Cajas    Federacion   Total        Loans
Revenue                   138,060    112,945    251,006
Expenses                   86,615     53,946    140hs561
Administration                     25,106
financial              46,o97      28,840
Profit                    51,445      58,999    110,4"     490,000
19.       In FY 1976, Popular Credit total revenue dropped by 016,000 while
financial costs rose sharply, yielding net profits of 075,227--down 32% from
the previous year and with a 10.6% net return on average outstanding loans as
indicated below:
Average
Central              Outstanding
Cajas    Federacion   Total        Loans
(0)         (0)                    TY o) 
Revenue                  128,346    106,697    235,043
Expenses                 100 14       59 675    159,816
Administration         3   3           1
Financial              64,50o      35,504
Profit                    28,206      47,022     75,227    709,000
Popular Credit provided the highest profit margin of all the credit programs,
principally because of the Monetary Board's interest rate restrictions capping
rates on agricultural lending.  Overall, the Popular Credit program has been
highly successful in terms of both volume (number of loans and dollars loaned)
and profitability.  It has demonstrated FEDECREDITO's ability to operate a high
volume, smnall loan program and has contributed toward reducing reliance on money-
lenders whose interest rates have ranged from 12% per day toll% (nominal) per month.
Sources of Funds
20.       The Government of E1 Salvador is the main source of funds for
Federacion operations, although funds have been provided on two occasions by
international financial institutions, Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
through the Central Bank, and Republic National Bank of New York. IDB provided
two loans of US$2 million each and Republic National one loan, also for
US$2 million. At the end of FY 1976, the balances outstandling on these loans
accounted for 45% of the Federacion's medium- and long-term debt and 24% of total



ANNEX lb
Page 9
debt. Lesser sums have also been received from the Banco Hipotecario and the
Banco de Comercio of El Salvador. Government funding is channeled through the
Central Reserve Bank (BCR) and is also represented by its capital position in the
Federacion.   BCR funding is by means of specific-purpose credit lines, such as
non-agricultural lending or economic development funds. Aside from minor amounts
of savings bonds, the Central Reserve Bank is the sole source of short-term debt
financing.
Technical Assistance
21.       Two levels of assistance accompany the credit programs provi-
ded by Federacion personnel.    The first level of assistance is directed to the
cajas and is for (a) support to administrative and operation effectiveness, (b)
management and financial auditing, and (c) problem, or special emphasis assistance
as needed. The second level of assistance serves two functions: (a) promotion of the
Federacion's lending programs through direct contact with users and potential
users; (b) evaluation of specific credit requests dealing directly with the
solicitant, preparing feasibility studies; and (c) followup on approved in-process
loans through on-site inspection. This level of assistance is performed only on
the agricultural lending program and is accomplished with 16 agronomists traveling
in the field. Technical assistance for Popular Credit is not available.
C. Organization and Management
22.       The Federacion's Board of Directors is its highest executive authority.
The Board meets weekly to review operations and approve credit or other actions.
Members and powers reserved for the Board are established by law.
23.       A reorganization of the Federacion in 1971 has resulted in both organizational
and managerial changes within the agency. The President is named by the President
of the Republic of El Salvador to a four-year term. The incumbent president is
the first full-time chief executive officer in the agency's  history.  This
president has extensive experience in private enterprise where he participated in
family-owned businesses, carrying out top management duties in manufacturing,
marketing and trade. The General Manager named in December 1975, is the chief
operating officer. He has served in a variety of positions in the private
sector and with institutions of the state, concentrating principally on financial
assignments including a stint as bank examiner.
24.       The revised organization divides operations within the Central Office
between three assistant managers responsible for finance, administration and
the caja program, respectively, with eight departments under their collective admin-
istration (see Chart 16455 for organization diagram). The split of functions
between the Central Office and affiliated cooperatives has been reviewed with a
view to further decentralizing operations. Much of the day-to-day operational
tasks related to lending and technical assistance are performed by the member
cooperatives throughout the country. General supervision and audit services
are performed in the Central Office along with a limited amount of direct lending
under special programs. Annual reports are issued by each affiliated cooperative,
as well as the Federacion itself.
25.       Adequate checks and balances exist within the system to provide for



ANNEX lb
Page 10
internal controls over credit approval, disbursement, and cash receipts.
Document flows between departments and historical accounting controls are
adequate, though not sufficiently mechanized within the cajas outside San
Salvador fdr highoperating efficiency. Responsibilities are clear in the
event shortages occur, and sources could be readily identified. Transfers
between the Central Office and affiliated cajas are made on the basis of approved
loan requests. Funds move from bank to bank, where branch banks are
available. Caja repayments to the Feceracion--which occur every 10 days--are
handled in the same manner.
26.       Specific evaluation criteria exist for all lending programs.
The type of guaranty receives considerable emphasis in credit evaluation.
All loans are guaranteed or secured in some fashion with first mortgage
guarantees covering the greatest volume of colones loaned. Since Popular Credit
accounts for the greatest number of loans, personal guarantees cover the greatest
number of loans approved, as shown below:
Number                   Financing
Type of Guarantee          of Credits      %           (Colones)       %
Personal (or group)         27,434       76.91        12,162,226    38.87
Chattel property                91        0.26           512,662      1.64
Second guarantor               461        1.29         1,562,670      4.99
Mortgage                     7,683       21.54        17,051,331    54.50
Total         35,669       100.00        31,288,889   100.00
Aside from the guaranty, credit evaluation involves an assessment of reasonableness
of a personal financial statement required on each loan request.  Through their
familiarity with their users, the financing department that evaluates the requests
and the individuals who are empowered to authorize loans can make reasonable
evaluations of risk. On certain types of loans a feasibility study is also required.
27.       The vast majority (over 90%) of the total number of loans (representing
80% of the total amount loaned in 1975) were at levels small enough to be approved
by an authorized individual (¢10,000 and below). This procedure considerably
abreviates the time required to process loan approvals, but also carriers greater
risk of misappropriation. All credit, however, requires dual approvals at both
the local caja and central office levels which considerably reduces the likelihood
of the latter.
28.       Disbursements are handled in the following manner:  when a rural credit
loan request is approved, a pay order is prepared by the central office payable
to the user on any of its banks. As a savings institution, the Federacion does
not have a charter to issue its own checks or have user checking accounts. For
Popular Credit the pay order is made out to the Popular Credit Chief of Section,
who Cashes the check and disburses cash to users.



ANNEX lb
Page 11
Financial Position
29.       The Federacion is a profit-making institution.  By law, however, it is
exempted from income taxes, as well as all other state and municipal fees or
levies since it is owned predominantly by Government (para. 2). Management
views profits as necessary to   maintain the viability of the agency and to:
(a) attract new members and to pay dividends on their capital stock
investment;
(b) provide internally generated funds for growth; and
(c) maintain a sound financial position which facilitates its role as
borrower, domestically and internationally.
Nearly all income results from interest on loans, although other sources such as
loan service fees, commissions on grain investment and interest on savings
deposits also contribute to profits.
30.       The Federacion is a solvent and financially stable institution (Chart 2).
While separate balance sheets are not available for individual cajas, the consol-
idated figures for all 39 cajas are also indicative of a solvent system (Chart 3).
The system as a whole presents combined assets in excess of US$21 million_as of
May 30, 1975; liabilities and net worth are in approximately a 3:2 relationship.
Assets in the central office alone doubled in five years to reach US$19 million as of
May 31, 1975 rising to US$24 million by the end of FY 1976. Loans represent
slightly more than 80% of total assets, and of this loan figure just under
two-thirds are loans to the cajas. The Federacion's expansion has been achieved
through increased borrowings. Total liabilities have increased almost four-fold
during the 1971-1976 period, and debt as a component of total liabilities, after
remaining stable at 80-90% for five years, reached 95% in 1976. The relative
growth of debt and equity is understandable in view of the institutional
objectives of credit expansion as opposed to maximizing of profit. Equity has
increased by 34% during the same period.
31.         The debt-equity ratio for the agency is still a conservative 2.5:1
on a total balance sheet basis. This ratio increases to 33:1 when administered
programs are excluded from the balance sheet. Administered programs are funded
to a greater extent by revolving captive resources and these programs generate
greater profits through higher interest rates and less interest expense. The
Federacion could easily continue to expand credit through debt financing
provided the interest differential, or spread between interest income and expense,
were maintained at current levels.
32.       Profits have been generated in each of the last five fiscal
years. A loss of US$17.9 thousand was reported in 1971. From 1972 to
1976 gross income grew from US$463.7 thousand to US$1,244,211, while net
profits increased from US$12.1 thousand to US$161.8 thousand. These trends,
which have brought profits to about 13% of gross income in 1976 are the result of
increased lending volume and cost control. Dividends have been paid in each year
to stockholder-members of the cajas during the 1971-1976 period; however,
approximately one-third of the cajas were ineligible and unable to do so because



ANNEX lb
Page 12
of their respective profit and "retained earnings" condition, while general
assemblies of the eligible cajas may elect not to distribute dividends even
when eligible. In 1976 over three-quarters did so.
33.       Most affiliated cajas have operated profitably for the full five-year
period analyzed, with only a few losing money in any given year. In 1975 all
39 cajas reported a profit; in 1976 95% so reported. Profits on gross income
increased steadily between 1973 and 1975 falling off slightly from 12.2°/ to
11.4% in 1976.
April 6, 1977



ANNEX lb
Page 13
Table 1. SUMMARY BY SIZE OF LOANS GRANTED IN FT75
(Emluding Complementary Services)
(Colones)
No. of
Ainount of Individual Loan       Credits      %              Financing          %
500.00 or below              24,691      69.22           4,737,803.00      15.14
50oo00  -   1,000,00         4L,949      13.88          4L,134L,032.00     13.21
1,000.00  -   2,000.00          3,1K0       8.83          5,o56,405.00       16.16
2,000,00  -   5,,00000          2,082       5.84           6,937,296.00      22.18
,p000.00  -  .i,00,0.00           529       1.48           4,036,1469.00     12.90
'0.00  -    -100. r0.            1 214     0.35          1,671,177.00        5.34
15,000.00  -  20,000.010           42       0.12             777,813.00       2.48
20, yX-) C 9-  25,0000              28       0.08             672,830.00       2.15
25,00000  -  y3),000).              214      (07              687,155.00       2.20
30,000.00  -  35,000.00             1o       0.01             324,450.00       1.04
35,000, 0O  - 4fi, '07              13       0.014            5')6,259.00      1.62
140,000.00 and over                 27       0.08           1,745,200.00       5.38
TOTAL CREDIT APFRNE3D           35,669     100.00          31,288,889.00     100.00
UNDISBURSED CREDIT                                          1.502,9.00         4.80
MISED CEDIT                                                 T785.984h00      92
Table 2. SUMMARY B! REPAYMT PERIOD OF LOANS GR1NE  I F5
(Excluding Complementary Services)
(Colones)
Lowi Period                 No. of
(years)                   Credits                           Financing        %
1  or less                 25,321         70.99              9,792,266.00    31.30
1   -   2                   2,538          7.12              3,136,579.00    10.02
2   -   3                   4450          12.148            5,1466,436.00    17.147
3   1.  )l                    525          1.147            13128,14114.00    3.61
li .5                     1-938t 3                   @48 4,523,910.00    14.46
5       6                     811          2.27              2,106,697.00     7.02
6       7                      93          0.26                500,039.00     1.60
20h          0.57             1,238,734.00      3.96
8       9                       3          0.01                  6,800.00     0.02
9   - 10                      332          0.93              3,181,414.oo   10.17
10                       -6             0.02               116,600.00    0.37
TOTAL CREDIT APPROVED       35,669        100.00             31,288,889.00   100.00
UNISBURSED CREDIT                                             1,502'90O5.00    4.80
DISBURSED CED T                                              29.785.984o.00    25.20



ANNEX lb
Chart 1
TOTAL PORTFOLIO 1965-1975
Federacion Central Office
(Millions of Colones)
40                                                                                                  40
38   -                                                     _ _ _     _ _ _ _   _ _ _
36-                          I               I                          .36
34 -          Portfc4lio Bla3n3                         .                                         -34
3   -d  Anrn'al loan flnanz.l zing                i                                           52
RecoupematLn of Lcra (alm.al) --if    __-    -32
3e-   _  _ _Total as  At  &0 ______ _
Feders,cion asset.7  
26-           Assets of affiliated coops                                   Of                     -28
t6 -                                                                                              -26 _.  . _    /-26
24 -          4                                        i         r  /-          /             >- 24
?22--2
r2 -   '     ,                   s       9 ^        y z           H    _ _ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  22
20 - ___    _ _4r    o                                                                             20 _,   __--20
1I_ .    ____     __ 7__-  _.____    __.__. _                                          _______16
16-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~3
12~~~~_________ ______  ____                                           .___   - 12
iO- -
6-                         _                                                                     -6
4-________ _________  -4
-2
i95-6   1966-C7    667-6     1963-CS    114-70    170-71   1971 72    172 -73    971 74   174 -7 5 
1971 Reorganization



FU=C NO DS WtAS D!I CfellITO
(A Limited-Liableity C-pohti4viAdci.tison)
Balance Soat as of Bar 31. 1974
(Clon..' 000)
L1n**--------.......................61......................   927,03
4Centrl Office ----------.----                                                       249 S ... ... ................. .........................                                                                         8,451
Deposits in national brks .2.......................,239 ...Sght depoit ................................................................  1,196
DepostU n L atwrnal bk   ....................... 4..............................4231                                                     Of affflated cooperatives and other .                       378
inemetments              .                                                   34,297                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Of market trades ("sonora  de 1os mercadoa) .... 436
larztonts .......................................................   34,297                                                                  Of. orteff -rder expore e o..a................................ 
Advace marketing of cereals an                                                                                                            f  tf d 1       e    mp..........y ss.............i8-2
neinane.33,807r cer                                                                                                                    Bandk     c         r        ed                   i      t       s.................................... , , , 490 ....  6,812edit. ......9.0.Bak.credt.............................................6,cl1
loans ......................................... 33,807                                                                                   C ntrel B.S-rs Benk ..............I.........  6,814
Short-Tm .                   ......    16,8                                                                                           Ce pitrl Rserd Bond...                                                      42
Rural Credit ...................................O7559                                                                                itae    nd e,ployees .   ........................         230
Ourrent operations ................ 2,878                                                                                        Of rtrafl andt  .......230 196
Agricultural developsnt ..........  4.681                                                                                        Of ruralO      a rei......                      ,,           16
Popular Credit..Of ammi l.5
Directl,   by   dr on2 ....BdT1.........ium-Ter......................                                                                                                                                                         ,52
By affilitated        mtve.217                                                                                                     O    in circultion                .................         1
inns to staff and emploee ............                                                                                               ko loans to st af and .      .ploys1 ...                    .67         17,289
loa islativeDewee No.2461 prgrai... 8' 8                  816 93Be C crdt.1,8
Ioemgloyv res o         .21.                                                                                                        Central Reserve Bnk Oiarantes Fund ......I....  273
To employees Of  t  .         .     .          24 privateete ise.. 718Central Re re Bank-BID. ...                                                                                            7,S
To ermpl.69 of pr63t ent rprl.....  748                                                                                             Other Banks ..........-. 2,266
-T        re ..                                                ...... 16,963 6                                                        Republic NOtional Bnk of MWe  York .............   5,O0
Currl Credit .in.7,7                                   16,416                                                                         -trl Ra-n srvs Bank-onoiDeve           pment Fo.    2.437
Current opresi alo   ........................ 7,2'57 ..
Aricultural delopment ........... 6,518                                                                                  Ot r Liabluty Aocounts1, .
Sc-oaoc Delopment Fund ..........  2,521                                                                                          t....Ctret............... 1,122
Smal Basines muarantee Fund ......  120                                                                                     Tranaitory its. ..................,.. ,S1
T.owemloyeesof system .377...
topcy               o              _..............................    377
Lns for housing construction .................2............................0 Total Labties.297...........................8................ .......... 29738
intere st  R eeivabl e d ~   v * .   * * ~   @ w * w * § * + t o * t w v ¢ ¢ o w e w w + v v @ X t *   10Own   resoure s                                                                                                     j9,196
Seurtesme)aic .......on          ..............I......C..........                                                                   orporate cjI a.203
M 1D      MI         Patcpain JRcde4....................................................................................  358Ne Creservst  c tl........................................................... 12G3
vewrti n Pitin0.................... ---** . ---358                                                            Net reserves ............... .1,552
M o                        .....          .......................... .................................... 1,255 Lg  maw-evsa ........................  63
ipiet   d                                                                                                                                  Loani 573  S _ll   Loe Insurance Fund ..............  366
L -,D.praci ntien       ..      .            2            286                                                                      Reserve for labor co_itdenat ...........   10
Social bindig      . t         .96                                                                                            Reserv...........  R   Aere fwr clearing *sset e.  260
lassi Btfleprntetios.          ... . .......160 4 9 882...... . Resers e for clearing loan
Las  D^pr oiation ....... 16                8potl ..............SS2........ p........, 2Yh
Special sets .................p 62.
Other real 55tets ..............     24                                                                                           Plus, Surplus from pressnt year .28                           277
Other capItal resources.                                      .........7,44.2
Othr Lest Accountg ...................................................................s.162                                                Legal  arante Fu. .............................7 33
l     ouid assets...................................................................              3h                                   State subsidi: .................................... 6.708
Dnferred ;ssets ............                                                                     122                                      For ruralc credit operations .......... 4,708
Transitory   t    ..............................................................                   6                                      For agricultural devalopint ........2.000
Reources admintered                                                                             5,670
TOSiL ASSETS                      43,601                    Staff And Employee loan  bnd .......           ...........................   4,6S
a                    S~~~~~~~tat  captital contribotimn.............1,0411
Increase .           ............................        3,563
Bad debts fund.                           2,016
Operating murplus ...........1
From preimas years .....,251
Ftcm 1971.11975 .296
Syst     a       sployes Protection Fund. i ;                            -   1,066                                             Y
keployar contribution ....... .......                     ..621
Federasion de 063mm de Credito......38?
Affiliated cooperative. ....d ...           .3 
~iOoyee contribution....... ..........196
Faderacion de Cajas ds Credito .        ..  ii                                                                                0
Affiliated cooperative........... 0
Net yields .             ........................................   2h8
TOTAL LLfILITIiS AXD CaPIrAL ..........   43,6a4



(A
Sale.. 31.tg            n.11   31 nM
timid insoLe                                                                   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  1.,11.898.98                                                                                                30,309,7I1.1.
baob. to Cantral title..                                          , 9~~~~~~~~~~4,56.3a                        r-n*1,.5556
Onpostis in stiosa  b-o............................... .                                 k.820.1412.60                                Sight dp.pntt L........ l3C~ 50.60.1,35556
Of affiliatd noprtesah   te.                           337,0.6.57
to..stat . ............................................... 40,1",16-26.84                                                                 Uf arbt tndrn (scrn  do Ion *roadon) ..... 575,947.57
Advac  saksti8 of canals a   istose.                                                       786,708.68                                   Of staff sd   ploynn.. 1.. .00 .
Loans                                                                      * J2..~~~~~~~.................Central R-es..kbo  ................ 11,715,000.00
Ro,al C-eIt                    .                      6,532,969.51                                                                Capita..tnnd bade ..........................   521,805.00
Corront  ~~~~~~~~~   t,3i8,51.5.56 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Of staff sad  sloyan..................                                                                    258.770.00
Agrima .tra  d..npwnt......S.2di,423.2f                                                                                           O  ra  orndlt                                            147.260.00
ball loans .         (81.~9,525.00)                634,070.61                                                                  Of e.1l to1.5 S775.OD_______
tirnctly by'; sdron..(295,025.00)   263,125.1.2                                                                                 fledte-Te...........8
By afftllaa  ooepenti..s4554.,500.00) .2120i&2                                                                                    Bods 1on,nt                                                          . 187,7693527tO
Loans to tafod  -P' ...........n 0! !..    37.1406.69                                                                                 of ton-  to staff and enptqa.............1,187.660.00
Logislattan i-ores  o.21461 pouS ......    36,573.58                                                                              Bn.k orsdtt.............................  6.805,572.80
To  .poye. of qa .8.......                    33.11                                                                                 Central ka.r.  I-B.    aroatae m Fi.........             60,911.61.
nitb Protatin Pond                                                                                                                Central barn  bt*-E8CIIT...........                      75,070.00
.s r. ........            .     u     ____    ______C.trnl bear.. bt-Stoo   Raising sa  Fattenin...                                                                                       50,150.00
ado-Tarn. ......... ...~20,939.927.11                                                                                              9tCo do    - Caro................... 550,002 CO
eAl C-od1t..............  11.695,906.12                                                                                            Bac  Ripotaoet  Os Ja Salvdo........... 550,OD0.01
0rrst op-ui n..........6.807,708.20                                                                                             lApuito UntIoa1 bob of NW Cork .........    5,0J00..00
ogtnltis Wa  deenlpst...... .. h635.031..36                                                                                        mitral lase.7                 D--isnao   s. t Pt .... 519.1.39.15   _____
_-io.onie  .nn           .......P.n .  24.2912.21                                                                             tag-Ts.r.....   ...              ...                                       :8,680,m597.
balIl Nosinoa G-aratee Fend.            10.25135                                                                                 a  Cesdit-s.8,...8a0a,997.93
ma-  to stff as saplopoo.9,198,6.....2..n.traL1 tarva ank-IDB end ............6.667.60..08
toginlalive  lsrnb.21.h  progea.. 9,049.212.,o                                                                                    Cntral dsr-o  t-Zoni  Gvlopant F-d ....  2.013.350.85    ____                         _____
4dth ProtectIn Pond                                                                                                       25zlbl            nt...............................1.710.1497.28
dototCredt (800C2U101 ..................Tenoitory Itio. ........................:::                                                                                                                    838,01,3.50___9___
iCoret opsotiona.........          1..4,6917,928.60                                                                                                                          ....,....3...                                                       05.69..
AVgetoutoa Dooslp-nt .......3,216,584.07                                                                                      Onnflss.t.9.6.71.5.9
beo-In Saonlon.t Pbnd         .      2472.3D2.78                                                                                Cronaoptl23900
bail betoesn Coarsata   P  .      61.60.19                                                                                Not r.ssn.............................2,001,853.03
o _sployas  of nysto.................    3I9,131,,2                                                                                 Lap1- a. .  ...............90,968.38
dish Pratootio  Pod                                                                                                               ba11 Loan Innamno  Poud....... 1...25,867.00
ro       .................             389.131.62                                                                               lasasv  for Isbn  . odt-sts...2...    0,000.00
M.ns tfor boudng  -cotatlon............. 101,4.23.4.7                                                                                ssrsbr .1aring asat.259..07.18
idcoto  Credit  dtJioeUITO).............              67,T84.25                                                                  lisR=      for clas-ing loepntoio..1.7,075.51
Unspoofid ...................... 197. 728.16                                                                                        Envefor pratiag c=pwtivanvst.27,797.21.
rwe   ror .....f5sI2k±73   1.599.31.0.15
iatnrsst boelvablo..~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    ~      ~~~~~~~~~1,181,51.1.60  PI..a. onpi1a ran.sro.a.................71225298
Socorittos as Partlolnatians..~~~~~~~~~~                                                            ~        ~~~~      ~~~358,089.73  LatOnrats:. in.733,702.9-6
".loonis andls                                           ................t............   1.186.41.2.17                                    SttL    osiis670.0.0 ______
Aqofast and forttstinid..561,t1.000
. ......eoo9a89on.3             271.757,96     271,757.96                                                                   Foe rara  -redt opertions         .... 1. 7,70d,8,,.00, 
Rona L.It......................914,734.21                                                                                             For agricult-1 dinelp-st .....2.000000.!00
Socia ftil.ldi....1,049,388.74                                                                                                  Isorosniitoead631,297
Lass npr-oAtio......   186,445.05      862,973.69                                                                                Staff sad  *1oYa Loa  Fond....................    5,135,802.68
up-L.1   17,760.52                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~S"tat  opital contribotion.:  ...........1,CW,0556.U.
99ecial nasets.~~~~~~27,70.520                                                                                            Inorna.o..o     ..::.                       ....4.. 095.21.6.21.
b.d dsbts tfs,d    .           .      .75.77i.81
............................................................ 201,255.06                           Oprntag  -oPIo...........       .     1.819.519..3
aLtar A.sst Accoos,...Won ~~~~~~~~~~~~4  5   1                                                                          1-1pr-i- y-.1,546,25835
Eijsr~~~~~~ioirzc.84,552.10                                                                                 Peon~~~~~~~~~~~S.t Fr   197/1.i975 ..... 73,26,1.08
OsfoersA ansots.112,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..13'8.56                                                              SytnspoyePotti.  i.110372
Transitory tunas...4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LL.                                                              Onpicyor coatr~~~~~~~~~-:ibotion ........ ....     ....663,040.01.
Psd-.r1to  de Cajas do Credito......06.0332
TOTAL ASSLTS    47,93,874.)aAffilisitd ...oparative......I....257.036,72
TOTAL ASSETS     1.7,983,874.38                os-ploYns  -itribt.toa                                    211,814..i3
Fsdoraio  do lajas do.C Cdto              120,.62.82
Affiliated ocopartiros           .          1.121.81
tot ys.Ads....            .                                (.41.7.35
i0f 9eosnc.tr Yoat .................____.
TOTAL LSAEILITIES IA)D CAPITAL ........ 1.7L,93,871.38
K .Igo  Antoio SeeIllo                 Aifr-do Chedri S.                           taftad A. lk.sso           r
Tics Prosidant - toting Pre.idnnt                  hegar                                    A-o.ot-.t0



EL SALVADOR                                       ANNEX lb
Second Urban Development Project                            Chart 3
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
FEDERACION AND AFFILIATED COOPERATIVES
31 May 1976
(Colones)
Assets                                   Liabilities & Capital
AVAILABLE                                          %     SHORT-TERM CBLIGATICNS                                 %
Cash, deposits in banks and                               Comprises camnitments for short-
credit institutions             7,498,031.73   12.48      term (current) deposits, bank
credits 4 1-yr term, bonds due
LOANS                                                      and uncollected                    18,457,610.01  30.73
Short-, medium- & long-term;
Rural Credit, People's Credit,                          MEDIUM- AND LONG TERM OBLIGATICNS
Protection Fund, Educredit, &                             & bank credits at more than
loans to staff                 48,364,998.78   80.53      1-yr term.  Includes unmatured
bonds in circulation              22,143,470.46  36.87
INTEREST RECEIVABLE
Includes interest on loans                              OTHER LIABILITY ACCOUNTS
accrued but not due & payable  1,410,713.27    2.35       Misc. creditors, settlements for
sale of fertilizer, various
SECURITIES & PARTICIPATICNS                                provisions & interest on
Mortgage certificates &                                   obligations                         2.300.560.73   3.83
other securities held by us       358,089.73    0.60
Subtotal         42,901,6141.20  71.43
EIXED ASSETS
Comprises our headquarters                              CAPITAL
building, furniture & office                              Comprises corporate capital,
equipment, at net value         1,230,095.63    2.05      subsidies, trust resources
and reserve funds                 17,155,006.32  28.57
OT]HER ASSET ACCOUNTS
Supplies of fertilizer to
affiliated funds are recorded
under this heading              1,015,288.40    1.69
DEFERRED CHARGES AND T&ANSI-
TICKAL ACCOUNTS
Records expenses paid in
advance, such as office
stationary & requisites,
travel expense advances
to agronomists, and insurance    179.429.98    0.30
TOTAL ASSETS                   60,056,647.52  100.00   TOTAL LIABILITIES & CAPITAL          60,056,647.52 100.00



ANNEX 2
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(April 1977--Colones '000)
1.                Total costs for  8,000 serviced site units accommodating a
population of 66,000 and requiring about 123 ha of land and for the up-
grading pilot and small business scheme would be as shown below. Foreign
exchange accounts for approximately 22% of total costs or US$5.2 million
(see main text for itemized breakdown).
PROJECT COSTS (Colones)
Physical   Price
Ttem                     Base      Contin-    Contin-                  US$
Price   gency        gency       Total      Total
SERVICED SITES
1.  Land                              7,092       -           -        7,092       2,837
2. On-Site Infrastructure
(a) Earthworks, roads
footpaths, water,
sewerage, storm drains   6,049           605      1,632       8.286       3,314
(b) Security lighting             1,433       72         354       1,859         744
3. Trunk Infrastructure
(a) Roads, storm drains           1,745      175         470       2,390         956
(b) Water, sewerage                 271       27          72         370         148
(c) Water supply
(contingency)                  979        98        264       1,341         536
4. Core Units
(a) Contractor-built items   6,651           332       1,713       8,696      3,478
(b) Mutual-help materials         2,994      150       1,042      4,186       1,674
(c) Water meter and
connection                   1,033       -           256      1,289         516
5:  Construction Loans                2,700       -           -         2,700      1,080
6. Administration
(a) Design engineering,
supervision/management    3,924          272      1,113       5,309       2,124
(b) Contingency well
operation                      239       -           -          239          96
7. Coumunity Facilities
(a) Primary schools              3,714       299       1,253      5,266       2,106
(b) Community centers               364       18         127         509         204
(c) Health clinics                  699       35         242         976         390
(d) Markets                         158         8         55         221          88
(e) Sports areas                    156         8         55         219          88
Subtotal       40,201   2,099        8,648      50,948      20,379
UPGRADING
1. Phase I: Pilot Scheme
(a) Land                            280      -           -           280         112
(b) Infrastructure                  258         8         24         290         116
(c) Community facilities             41         2          3          46          18
(d) Construction loans              247      -           _           247          99
(e) Administration                   75      -           -            75          30
Subtotal          901        10          27        938         375
SMALL BUSINESS EXTENSION
1. Credit
(a) Loan capital                  7,500      -           -         7,500      3,000
(b) Administration                  591      -           _           591         237
2. Training and technical
assistance                          651      -           -           651         260
Subtotal        8,742       -           -        8,742       3,497
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/TRAINING
1. Shelter Technology/
Design Study                        200       -          -           200          80
2. Evaluation of serviced
sites                               250      -           -           250         100
3. Employment/Income
Generation Study                    160      -           -           160          64
4.  Technical Assistance                  75      -           -            75          30
Subtotal          685       -           -          685         274
TOTAL          50,529    2,109       8,675      61,313      24,525



ANNEX 2
Table 1
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
LAND COSTS
(Colones)
a!
Area-               Cost
No.    Required      Est.   pe                           b/
City        Units   per Unit        m      m      Subtotal        Total
San Salvador   5,700       100     570,000   7.75   4,417,500   5,521,875
Santa Ana       1,000      133     133,000   4.65       618,450      773,060
San Miguel        500      133      66,500   3.95       262,675      328,340
Sonsonate         300      133      39,900   4.65       185,535      231,920
Other             500      133      66,500   2.85       189,525      236,905
Total     8,000               875,900           5,673,685   7,092,100
(87.6 ha)
a/ Assuming 60% salable land; lot sizes 60 m  i2 San SalvaPor and 80 m
in other areas. Total area per unit = 100 m and 133 m respectively.
b/ Including price escalation estimated at 25% per annum over average
acquisition period of 12 months.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS
(Jan. 77--Colones)
A. URBANIZATION COSTS UNDER FIRST PROJECT
Estimated Cost
Contract   Amount per    Construction   per Salable m
Site              Amount    Salable m2          Date         (April 1977) a/
Sonsonate
(Sensunupan)       337,861        6.43         Dec.  75              7.87
Santa Ana
(La Periquera)   1,104,466       13.08         Dec.  75             16.02
El Pepeto
(Soyapango)        239,073        7.38         June  75              9.59
El Naranjo
(Usulutan)         336,905        8.68         April 76             10.30
San Miguel
(La Presita)     1,352,925       13.53         April 77             13.53
Average              11.46
a/ Based on price escalation of 30% in FY75, 15% in FY76 and 20% in FY77;
the first two figures were established in a survey of price increases
by FSVM.
B. URBANIZATION COST ESTIMATES FOR SECOND PROJECT
Estimated
Urbanization
Lot2Size    Number  Salable        Cost per
Site             m         of Units   m2         Salable m2 b/   Total
San Salvador          60        5,700   342,000         11.50       3,933,000
Santa Ana             80        1,000    80,000         11.50         920,000
San Miguel            80          500    40,000         11.50         460,000
Sonsonate             80          300    24,000        11.50          276,000
Other                 80           500    40,000        11.50         460,000
Total            6,049,000
b/ An average urbanization cost has been used in view of the fact that cost
differentials resulting from geographical differences in a country as small
as El Salvador are outweighed by the impact of individual site topography,
design, etc.



ANNEX 2
Table 3a
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
TRUNK INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS
(April'77--Colones)
A. QUANTITIES
Storm Drainage           Sewerage
Access                        Out-               Out-
No.   Roads   Water  Pipe  Well  fall  Pipe  Well  fall
Location       Units   (lm)    (lm)  (lm)                 (lm)
Sonsonate        300   -         -       50    2      1    50      2      1
Santa Ana      1,000 1,000    1,000       -     -     -      -     -      -
San Salvador
Site A      1,500 1,500         500   500    7      1   500      7      1
Site B      1,200   200          50    50    2      -    50      2      -
Site C       1,500   500         50    50    2      1    50      2      1
Site D      1,500   -           -             -     1      -     -      1
San Miguel       500   100        -     400    6      2   400      6      2
Smaller Urban
Centers
San
Vicente        200   400        400    50    2      1    50      2       1
Zacatecoluca  100   400         400    50    2      1    50      2       1
La Union       200   400        400    50    2      1    50      2       1
Total    8,000 4,500      2,800 1,200   25       9 1,200    25       9



ANNEX 2
Table 3b
B.  TRUNK INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS
Item          Unit Cost          Quantity          Subtotal        Total
Access Roads          350/lm           4,500                         1,575,000
Storm Drainage                                                         169,500
pipes              105/lm           1,200            126,000
wells            1,200 unit            25             30,000
outfalls         1,500 unit             9             13,500
Subtotal        1,744,500
Sewerage                                                               117,900
pipes               62/lm           1,200             74,400
outfalls         1,500 unit             9             13,500
wells            1,200 unit            25             30,000
Water                  54.50/lm        2,800                            152,600
Subtotal          270,500
Total                  2,015,000
Electrical infrastructure will involve security lighting and
optional house connections. The Municipality which supplies street lamps
at an installed unit price of 0230 estimates that one lamp is required for
about 75 families, depending on site layout. Primary and secondary lines,
poles, transformers and meters including installation are estimated at about
0176 per family. Individual families may purchase their own electrical box
for 028 and pay an inspection fee of 03 when they decide to make an electrical
connection. The latter costs are not included in the project (except for the
highest service level) as house service is strictly optional. Project costs
include the following:
Colones
On-site electrical reticulation
(8,000 units @ 0176)               1,408,000
Street lamps (installed)
(approx. 110 lamps @ 0230)            25,300
Total      1,433,300



ANNEX 2
Table 4
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
CORE UNIT COSTS
(April 77--Colones)
1.        The various unit types presented on the following page of this
Annex represent design variations developed as examples of the service
levels presented below. The FSVM will develop a mix of designs and service
levels suited to market demand in each city. Overall, the following blend
of units will be developed under the project.
A. UNIT COSTS
Core Unit Costs
Examples   Total              Mutual       Water       Total Core
Service   of Unit    Dev.    Con-         Help      Meter and    Unit Cost
Level     Types      Cost   tractor   Materials  Connection    (Average)
A   Serviced Lot   2,000    394          120           73           587
Rental Unit
Centrally
located
sanitary
core
B  Sanitary         3,100    687         274          124         1,085
Unit
Basic unit
with cen-
trally
located
sanitary
core
Basic unit
C  Condominium      4,000  1,339         673          175         2,187
Expanded Unit
D  Fondo Unit       6,500  1,972       1,264          175         3,411
B. TOTAL COSTS
Total Costs
Number                   Mutual       Water Meter
Service           of                      Help            and
Level     %    Units    Contractor    Materials    Connection           Total
A      15    1,200       472,800        144,000        87,600        704,400
B      60    4,800    3,297,600       1,315,200       595,200      5,208,000
C      21    1,680    2,249,520       1,130,640       294,000      3,674,160
D       4       320      631,040        404,480        56,000      1,091,520
8,000    6,650,960      2,994,320    1,032,800    10,678,080



EL SALVADOR
Second Urb,.n levelopment Project
COST OF UNIT TYPES
(April 77--Colones)
Item                         Unit Cost         Serviced Lot                   Centrally-Located Facilities                Sanitary Unit           Basic Unit (One)          Expanded Unit
Quniy Cost           SntrCoe                Basic Unit
Quantity                    Sanitary Core          ai         st        Quantity-       Cost       Quantity      Cost       Quantity    Cost
Quantity    Cost    Quantity   Cost          Q
A. Contractor Costs
Excavations                     9.44 M3                -                   1.21       11.42      1.55     14.63          1.50          16.99        1.80         16.99        1.72       16,24
Concrete Foundations          168.63 M3                -                   1.15      193.92      0.35     59.02         0.52           87.69        0.50        84.72         0.45       75.88
Brick Walls                    17.14 M                 -                  60.00    1028.40    19.00    325.66           35.00         599.90       31-10       533.05       28.00       479.92
Rendering of Walls              3.42 W                 -                  54.00      184.68       -         -           15.20          51.98          -            -           -           -
Sewerage                       76.oo U                 -                   0.20       15.20       -        -             2.00         152.00
Water Supply                   73.00 U                 -                   1.00       73.00       -         -            2.00         146.00                -            -                 -
Compaction                     13.14 U                 -                   0.85       11.17      1.24     16.30          1.44          18.92        0.50          6.70        o.60        7.88
Pines for roof/door frame       0.85 U                 -                   8.00        6.80      8.00      6.80         20.00          17.00        4.00          3.40        8.00        6.80
Expansion Pins                  1.66 U                 -                    -           -         -         -            3.00           4.98        3.00          4.98         -
Cleanup                         8.00 U                 -                   3.00       24.00      1.00      8.oo          U              8.00         -             -
Electrical Connections         13.00 U                                                   -                 -           -          -                 -             -
Siphon                         10.00 U                 -                   8.00       80.00
Labor & Other Spec.Items         -                     -                    -           -
Total                                                                          1628.59              430.41                      1103.46                   649.84                   586.72
No. of Units                                                                      8                   1                            2                        2                        2
Unit Total                                                                      203.57              430.41                       551.73                   324.92                   293.36
Cumulative                                                                     203.57               633.98                       551.73                   876.65                 1170.01
B. Mutual Help Materials
Lamina Asbestos Cement         17.00 U                 -                   7.00      119.00      7.00    119.00          4.00          68.oo        10.00       170.00       14.00      238.00
Wood (3 varas)                   4.50 U                -                   3.00       13.50      1.00       4.50         2.00           9.00         -             -                        -
Wood (4 varas)                  6.oo U                 -                   3.00       18.00      1.00       6.00         1.00           6.00         5.00        30.00        4.00       24.00
Washbasin (concrete)            40.00 U                -                   4.00      160.00       -  .                   2.00          80.00         -             -
Toilet (concrete)               8.00 U                 -                   8.oo       64.oo       -          -           2.00          16.00         -
Door and hinges                35.00 U                 -                   8.00      280.00       -          -           2.00          70.00                -            -                 -
Concrete floor                  7.00 M                 -                  10.08       70.56    15.8       110.60         9.12          63.84        19.8        138.60       31.41      219.87
Roof joint                     40 00 U c /                                              -                                 -               -      _                            1.00       40.00
Windows                       337.20 U J               _                    _           _         _
Wood (5 varas)                  7.50 U                 -                   3.00       22.50      1.00       7.50                                             -                              -
Total                                                                           747.56              24/.60                       312.84                    338.60                  521.87
No. of Units                                                                      8                   1                            2                         ^                       2
Unit Total                                                                       93.15              247.60                       156.42                    169.30                  260.93
Curnulative                                                                      93.45              341.05                       156.42                    325.72                  586.65
C.  Water Meter/Connection           175.00 U             175.00                 0.125       21.87       -          -                        175.00                        -                      -
Utility box                    45.00 U               45.00                   -                    -          -                            -                                                 _
Total (Cash) Cost                              220.00                           318.89              678.01                       883.15                     494.22                 554.29         g3 I
Total Unit Cost                                220.00                           318.89              996.90                       883.15                    1377.37                1931.66
(Cumulative)
SDH



Cost of Unit Tvpes (cont'd)
a!            -
Item                          Unit Cost                 Rental Unit                   Condominium                   Condo Unit
_________________________________________________     Quantity      Cost            Quantity      COst           Quantity       Cost
A.  ContraCtor Costs                       3
Excavators                       9.44 M                 9.00       84.96              8.87       83.73            4.80         45.31
Concrete Foundations           168.63 M3                4.78      806.05              2.35      396.28            1.70        286.67
Brick Walls                     17.14 m2             189.00      3239.46            118.16     2025.26           72.0-       1234.08
Rendering of Walls               3.42 M                 9.36       32.01              8.53       29.17            9.2          31.46
Sewerage                        76.oo u                 1.00      350170c             1.00      135.00e/           u12        132.85
Water Supply                    73.00 U                 1.00      270.00M/            1.00       100.002/ uO/                 113.00
Connection                      13.14 u                 6.80       89.35              7.00       91.98            4.55         59.79
Pines for Roof/Door Frame        0.85 u                50.00       42.50             42.00       35.70           28.00         23.80
Expansion Pins                   1.66 u                  -                    -              -             -                     -
Electrical Connections          13.00 IU                 -           -                 -            -              uc/         36.70
Cleanup                          8.oo IU                 -           -                 -           -               u            8.0o
Siphon                          10.00 U                  -           -                 -           -               _             _
Labor and other Special Items                            -       2554.40               -         119,80
Total                                                      7469.43                       3016.92                       1971.66
No  of Units                                                  8                             2                              1
Unit Total                                                  933.67                       1508.46                       1971.66
Omulative                                                     -                                                        1971.66
B.  Mutual flelp Materials
T ,joated Asbestsos i(C.l,eveot  17.00 U               30.00      510.00             24.00       408.00           700         119.0 0
Woodi (3 varas)                  4.50 U                31.00      139.50              2.00         9.00           1.00          4.50
Wood (4 varas)                   6.00 u                  -           -                3.00        18.00           1.00          6.oo
Wood (5 varas)                   7.50 u                 4.00       30.00              1.00         7.50             -             -
Washbasin (concrete)            40.00 u                 2.00       80.00              2.00        80.00            1.00        40.00
Toilet (concrete)                8.00 U                 2.00       16.00              2.00        16.oo           1.00          8.00
Door and hinges                 35.00 Uo               16.00      560.00              6.oo       210.00           5.00        175.00
Concrete f'loor                  7.00 M'              114.00      798.00             59.43      416.01           42.oo        294.00
Roof joint                      40.00 u  /              -           -                 -            -              7.00        280.00
Windows                         50.30 U -               -            -                7.00       352.10            1.00       337.20
Total                                                      2133.50                       1516.61                       1263.70
No. of UJnits                                                 8                             2                             1
UJnit Total                                                 266.69                        758.31                       1263.70
Cumulative                                                    _
C.  Water Meter/Connection         175.00 U                 0.125       21.87              1.00      175.00                       175,00
Total IJnit, Cost                                          1222.23                       2441.77                       3410.36         b
Cumulative                                                 1222.23                       2441.77                       3410.36      r- PO
a    ource:  San Miguel contract, (Sct.76-Oct.77) estimated as April  77 prices
b,/ an M'iFuel designs; quantities for basic and expanded units are additional
/  Unit costs vary due to different imit designs
d   All work on Rental Unlits is by contractor;  cost includes labor
NOTE:   Self_helTp labor woulfd be worth 50¶( of the value of materials used in klutual lielp



ANNEX 2
Table 5
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
CONSTRUCTION LOANS
(April '77--Colones)
A. LOAN AMOUNTS/TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST PER UNIT
Amount Optional        Total
Service    Development           Materials         Development
Level       Cost                 Loan               Cost
A        2,000                  650               2,650
B        3,100                  400               3,500
C        4,100                   -                4,100
D        7,000                                    7,000
B. TOTAL CONSTRUCTION LOAN FUND
Cost              No. of       Amount of
Level       %     Units           Loan             Total
A       15      1,200           650             780,000
B       60     4,800            400           1,920,000
C       21     1,680             -                 -
D        4       320             -                 -
TOTAL  2,700,000
C. LOAN AMOUNTS BY CITY
No. of           Average
City           LUnits          Loan Amount         Total
San Salvador      5,700             337.5          1,923,750
Santa Ana         1,000             337.5            337,500
San Miguel          500             337.5            168,750
Sonsonate           300             337.5            101,250
Smaller Cities       500            337.5            168,750
TOTAL 2,700,000



ANNEX 2
Table 6a
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
ADMINISTRATION COSTS
(April '77--Colones)
1.        Administration costs have been calculated on the basis of actual
costs within the first project as a percentage of civil works including
a) earthworks, water, sewerage, roads, storm drains, b) contractor-built
portions of core units, and c) the materials, tools and equipment used in
mutual help. Design, engineering and supervision of construction run about
10.2%, and management 12.3%, totaling 22.5% overall.
A.  ADMINISTRATION COSTS UNDER FIRST PROJECT/'
La Periquera   Sensunupan    El Naranjo
Item                  (1,190 units)   (563 units)   (435 units)  Total
CIVIL WORKS
a.  Earthworks, drainage,
water, sewerage, roads  1,146,398         369,117        353,730    1,869,245
b.  Core units (contractor)   739,920         282,378        217,316    1,239,614
c.  Mutual-help tools,
equipment and materials _543978           360,645        339,995    1,244,618
Sub-total        2,430,296    1,012,140         911,041    4,353,477
ADMINISTRATION
a.  Design/Engineering          101,149        45,040         34,800       180,989
b.  Supervision                 120,872        77,623         642303       262,798
Sub-total          222,021       122,663         99,103       443,787
(10.2f)
c.  Management
- Social Promotion           70,490        40,505         34,677       145,672
- Financial                  36,684        17,285         14,053        68,022
- General                   173,332        81,745         65,436       320,513
Sub-total          280,506       139,535        114,166       534,207
(12.35)
a/ Source: Cost Summary Sheets of FSVM.



ANNEX 2
Tables 6 b
and c
2.        Technical assistance given during the self-help (materials loan)
phase will add another 2.5% to the above, totaling 25%. Administration
costs under the second project will therefore be as follows:
B.  ADMINISTRATION COSTS UNDER SECOND PROJECT
Total
Item                                      (Colones '000)
I. CIVIL WORKS
a. earthworks, roads, footpaths,
water, sewerage, storm drains                     6,049
b. Contractor components--core units                 6,651
c. Mutual-help materials                             2,994
Total             15,694
WI. ADMINISTRATION
@ 25%                                             3,924
C. OPERATING COSTS: WELL CONTINGENCY PLAN, 1979-1981
Water    Annual   Cumulative
Quantigy Operat'yg   Annual    No.            c/
Date       Units  Location  ('OOOm )   Cost-         Cost    Months  TotalT
July 1979  4,700  Soyapango   620        99,200    99,200       6     49,600
Jan  1980  1,500  Apopa         198      31,680   130,880       4     43,630
Apr  1980  1,500  Soyapango   198        31,680   162,560       -       -
Apr  1980  1,500 bApopa         198      31,680   193,880       8    145,410
Total    9,200 -                                             18    238,640
a/ Based on unit costs of ¢ 0.16 per m3 including ¢ 0.12 per m  for energy
and ¢ 0.04 for service and operations.
b/ 3,500 units within the first project and 5,700 under the second.
c/ The monthly charge to households supplied under this system would be
about ¢ 1.75, comparable to the ¢ 1.95 minimum charge in San Salvador.



EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
COMMUNITY FACTLFTTTS COSTS
(Apr. 77--Colones )
tt.           -4 '>i:  C   < tDConstruction Costs                                                 Annual
Total      ,~        ~        5 4   c                  a a                        Equipment       Total        Project                Operating Costs
F'acility                Numrber     vs       vs        vs       cc cT             c         Construction & Furniture   Unait Cost        Total   Staffing   Materials  Total Per Facility
No. Families    8,000    5,700   1,000         500      300               500
Population      48,000    38,200   6,000   3,000   1,800                3,000
Multipurpose Community
Centers
Type A                        12         8        2        1       -                 1         27,880      provided by    27,880         334,560  mnaintained and run
community                               by community
Type B                         4         1        1        -      2                  -          7,450      provided by       7,450         29,800
-                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~community           ___
Subtotal    16                                                                                                           364,360
Health Facilities
Clinics                        3         2        1       -        -                 -        138,450      61,300          199,750       599,250  97,880         90,390       188,270
Expansion of existing
facility                     1         -        -        1       -                 -         69,220      30,650           99,870        99,870  48,940         45,200        94,140
Subtotal      4                                                                                                          699,120
Markets
Type 1                         1         1        -        -        -                -         30,720      None             30,720         30,720  maintai tv and run
by cmcmunity
Type 2                         3         1                 _  1                                19,360      None             19,360         58,080
Type 3                         3         1        1        1      -                  _         23,o60      None             23,0o6         69,180
Subtotal      7                                                                                                          157,980
Schools
tf'or details see  Tables 7a arnd 7b)                                                                    3,714,000
Sports lields
Besketball                    10         6        1        1      1                               , ,14C   Included          84,1 1)       41,400  None
Soccer                        10         6                                           L         1,82            - 4           :,Lo         114S200
SIIbI Aal    20                                                                                                          155,600
TOTAL      5,091,060
tS



ANNEX 2
Table 7a
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
SCHOOLS
The project will provide 11 basic schools with 4,800 student
places occupying a gross area of 10,500 m . The base construction cost
of US$88 per m2 (April 1977) reflects prices of recent school construc1-i-rn
contracts, less an expected cost reduction of 8% through the use of a more
simple school design than that used previously.  Site works are estImTh-rt0
at 12% of construction costs, assuming that the FSVM contractor Tqoulc'
level and prepare the terrain completely before the school consi:r-..ction
contractor begins. A local cost adjustment of 7-15% was added to cover
domestic transportation of materials to cities other than -an Salvador.
Furnicure and equipment costs are based on experience under the Second
Education Project (No. 1007-ES) and on an assessment of curriculum
requirenents. Administrative costs cover salaries and operating expenrbes
of  l perscnnel di.ectiy connected with implementation of this subcomp'ne!nz,
including estima:ed physical contingencies and salary increases.  Des;gn and
m;'ei' detaIls are ,resented inAnnex 7.  Physical and price contingencle;
on consiruction are presented in Tables 10 and 11 respectively.  The fo- .i.-
exchange component is estimated at 30%.
Item                        Colones              US$
Construction and Site Works      2,670               1,068
Furniture                           196                 79
Equipment                           252                101
Base Cost                   3,118              1,248
Professional Services
(Design/engineering)             327                131
Project Administration              269                107
Total                  3,714              1,486



1L  MAVXADbi
ec      Dt -rban Developmnot Project
lJl-ORADINO CC12T" (7I40T)
TApril 77--Colone
Unit            ToTtal
Price            Contractor     Mlo-al           Contract                                   Projeqt
Item                                                  uanotity    (Contractor)    Coat             help              Labor      Materials    Equipment         Castn a
I.  LAND                                                            65,116 t2    4.30 m2                                                                                     2W0,000
salable
II. T213ASTRUCTU3E (ON-SITE)
a, Water System
4" pipes                                                   580 m            38              22,740         1,780           7,050         13,210          -           20,260
2" pipes                                                   46o m            15               6,900           570           2,200          4,130          -            6,330
1" pipes                                                   L45 m          6.90               1,000           240             i6o            5o0          -               760
storage tank                                                 5 U           478               2,390           570             330          1,440          -            1,820
fire  ydlant                                                 2U          1,035               2,070           -               830          1 240          -            2070
b. toim Drainage
impmovementa to exioting canal                             580 a         1C.25               5,950           -             2,3W0           3,570          -            5,950
drainage boa                                                Jt7 T       250.70               4,96o           340           1,360           2,560          -            3,920
wells (3m)                                                   3 U         1,150               3,450           -              i,380          2,070          -            3,450
concrete pipes                                             760 a         34.50              26,220         6,300           'l,220        15,700           -           19,920
di-hearges                                                   (, ll       1,150               6,900         2,760              -            4,140          -            4,140
boxea                                                       15 2I          1736               2,6hO           -             1,o6o          I 58o                      2 64o
10,402         29,20                       4,2
c. Earth-krr/Retainero                                          1,400 m        13.80              19,320        10,820           2,700          5,800          -8,500
d. Anceas Road/Footpatba
vebhirlar access                                            925             9 32            85,100         6,,10          27,230          51,060          _           78,290
fo-tpaths                                                 3,099 a        35.95             108,300        34,900           8,700          65,300          -           74,000
grades                                                      010 m        30.45              12,030         4,81o              -            - 220          -            7,220
35,930        123,-5 159,510
e. Covered Wanbhirg Arena
wash basins (ant)                                             2 U        6,925              13,850        3,320            2,220          8,310          _           10,530
aioera (ant)                                                     ll      4 1,270            i0,16o         1,630           2 440           6 090          _            8 530
4 , 64, 400                               19, 060
TI. COMMUNICY FACILITIES/P6UITPMENT
a. Comr.tnity Cenort
-onstruction                                                 Lo  r          69                6,900        2,760              -            4,i40 o                     4,140
Oq.ip-te  aa       t                                                                           -              -               -             -           2,000          2,000
day core                                                     -             -                  3,450        1,380 o                         2,070          -            2,070
day care equiar-et                                           _-                                                               -             -           2,300          2.300
67, 210        4,300         10,510
b. Marbet/Civic Olaco                                            376l  a         20               7,52)0        1,200           1,300         4,520           -            6,320
c. pnrts Ifielets
basketball                                                    -             -                 6,540         2,620             -           3,920           -            3,920
r-o,dtliti tinl of 0-roar field                              -              -                 7,950        5,440              -           1,810           -            1,810
_           5,730                        5,730
1. .Lol  eno-vatioo
-oti lor  rscili-ies                                                        -                 3,670           -             1,550         2,320           -            3,870
renovatio-                                                           -                       14,3!o        2,300            3,450         8,620           -           12,070
-quipent                                                                                                              -                     -           2,300          2,300
5, 000      1 3776o         2,300
If . CN..TbRUCTION LOAi.
a.  _oreb'_ae/fe-ring                                              -             -                 ,i30           -             2,850         4,280           -            7,130
b. Crdi-ta                                                        W             300             240,000           -               -         240,000           _          010  0
2, 50      24t4, 280                       T
V. A-0MI2SlTRATION
¢estim.ted at 250 of totl 0-070
e-cluding natcrial l''<-,, a1
1 -a')                                                                                                                           -             -             -            ',4 3°°     r
T-Idn                                                                                                                             900 --2h0     r Z
o/ Exoloding mutuai-4r1,; sh o



ANNEX 2
Table 9
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
SMALL BUSINESS EXTENSION COSTS
(Colones)
a!
Item                         1977     1978        1979      1980     Total
I. CREDIT CO04PONIENT
1. Loan Capital             2,000,000 4,500,000 1,000,000              7,500,000
2. Administratin
a) Salaries-                61,650   112,100   121,070  130,760       425,580
b) Benefits (20%)           12,330    22,420    2h,210   26,150        85,110
c) Supplies including
Computer Services        9,250    16,810    13,160   19,610       63,830
d) Equipment                1.2,860    3 280       -        -          16,14o
Subtotal Admin. (7.3%)  96,090  -T4,610   163,4h0  176,520         590,660
Subtotal                                                   8,090,660
II. TRAINING/TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Salaries                   52,200   126,000   132,300  138,910       409,4lo
2. Benefits                   10,hl0    25,200    26,460   27,780        89,880
3. Pool of Technical
Consultants                2,000     4,000      4,200   14,L10       l4,610
la. Consultant for Program
Development and
Training of Trainers       7,500     7,500       -        -          15,000
5. Operational Supplies        7,200    16,300    16,300   17,110        56,910
6. Equipment                  17,250     8,000       -        -          25,250
Subtotal           96,590   187,000   179,260  188,210       651,07T
TOTAL                                                 8,741,720
a/ Nine months beginning April 1977, except FOCCO program develonment and
training of trainers which will be 12 months.
b/ See Annex on Small Business Extension Scheme for details on staffing levels;
salaries of Federacion and FOCCO employees are escalated at an annual rate of
8%, and 5% respectively in accordance with the policies of each insti;tit; on .



ANNEX 2
Table 10
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES
(April 77--Colones '000)
Detailed    Preliminary
Total  Design/Eng.  Design/Eng.    Total
Item                          Cost      (5%)          (10%)     FSVM   Gov't
I. SERVICED SITES
On-site Infrastructure
a. earthworks, roads,
footpaths, water,
storm drains, sewerage      6,049         -           605       605    -
b. Security lighting            1,433       72            -          -     72
Trunk Infrastructure
a. roads, drains               1,745         -           175         -    175
b. water & sewerage               271        -            27         -     27
c. water supply contingency
plan                          979         -            98         -     98
Core Units
a. contractor components       6,651       332            -         332    -
b. mutual-help materials       2,994       150            -         150    -
Administration                                              a/         a!
Design/Eng. & management      -           -          272         272-   -
Community Facilities                 b/
Schools                     3,118-       13           286         -    299
Community Centers             364        18            -          -     18
Health Facilities             699        35            -          -     35
Markets                        158        8            -          -      8
Sports fields                 156         8            -          -      8
II. UPGRADING
Pilot Scheme
Infrastructure (3%)           258         8            -          -      8
Community Facilities            41        2            -          -      2
Warehouse                        7-                    -          -
Subtotal                         646        1,463      1,359   750
TOTAL                                   2,109
a/ Calculated at 25% of on-site infrastructure (excluding security lighting)
and core unit contractor components and mutual-help materials.
b/ Construction, furniture and equipment only; calculated at 5% for equipment
and 10% for construction and furniture.



ANNEX 2
Table 11
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
PRICE CONTINGENCIES
(Colones '000)
Price escalation in El Salvador has been traditionally quite low
averaging below 2% over the decade from 1963-73. Sharp increases occurred
from 1974 onward in the magnitude of 17-24% for the overall consumer index.
Escalation in the construction sector exceeded even this. An FSVM survey
established a price increase of about 31% in FY75, dropping to 12% in FY76.
The consumer index over the same periods showed 24% and 19% respectively.
The sharp decline of 1976 is expected to slow in 1977 for the construction
sector, however, due to a labor union strike and subsequent wag':  hike and to
earthquake reconstruction activity in neighboring Guatemala. Annual. esca-
lation rates for the project, reflecting the preceding factors, are e,t.imated
as follows:
Calendar Year                                     %
1976                                     17.5
1977                                     17
1978                                     13
1979                                     11.5
1980                                     10.5
Cost
2rice        Physical                           Annual                   Price
(A,.. '77)    Contiosencina    Totl             Investment              CortinOOoc'         %
1.   SBRVICED SITES
On-Site Infrastructure an Core Units
(a) e    .rt.I.ork. roads, footpaths. water,
gtern, dain, sesraSe                         6 049            605                   1977  10%   1,618 x .06                 '3
(b) contractor eleenta--core .nita               6,651            332                   1978  45%   7,278 x .19               1,'51
(c) aroerity lightin                             1,433            72                   1979  45%   7,279 x .34               2,475
(d1) vater tneter/connettion                      1.033           _                     1980   -       -       -               _
Sobtotal       15,166         1,089         16,175                                          3            24.5%
Mut-l-help tiatortela                             2,994           150          3,144    1977
1978  20%     629   .19                 120
1979  65%   2 043   .34                 695
1980  15%     472   .48                 227
Subtotal        2,994           150          3,144                                          1,042       33.1%
Trunk Iuf-rotructurt                                                                     1977  10%     330   .06                  20
(a) anton and tenerage                              271            27                   1978  45%   1,483 u  19                 282
(b) road, srort drains                            1,745           175                   1979  45%   1,483 x  34                 504
(el cell ...tte~ge..cy pian                         979            98        ____       1980   -      -      -
Subtotal        2,995           300          3,295   816                                                 24.5%
La
Adtnini-troti.                                                                                                                 1,113
(e)rnaurity Pecttlhon Lb                          3,118           299         3,417    1977   -       -       -                  9
1970  15%     313 u  1,9                 98
1979  50%   1.709 x  34                 501
1980  357.  1,196 n.48                  574
Subtotnl        3,118           299          3,417                                          1,253        36.7%
(67 commuuity cent.e                                364            18                   1977   -      -        -
(c( belh f-cilitle-                               699            35                   1978  207,    290 u.19                   53
(d) markets                                         158             8                   1979  65,     942   .34                 320
(e) sporco fuofd.                                   4)6             8         ___        1980  157.    217 r  48                104
Subtotal        1,377            69          1,446                                            479       33.1.
11. UPGRADING
I f---ir c-urn                                       258             8                   1977  80/     247    .06                 15
Community Facilits                S o41                              _2                  1978  20%      62   .19                  12
Subt.ta1          299             10           309                                             27        8.77
T0TAL       8,675       27.
/a Culcurated @ 257, of rarthorks, roads, footpaths, water, ntorm dra-ni,                  .ierrutr  corn nit, cuorruc br uorks and mutual-help nrtels
/b Culc_uirtd on c _uocructi-, f-uriturn and equipmnt.



ANNEX 2
Table 12
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
WATER SUPPLY CONTINGENCY PLAN
Item                              Unit Cost       Soyapango       Apopa
Well drilling
(approx. 130m deep, inclusive of
casing, screens, developing and
30 hrs test pumping)                   78,000 U      234,000         78,000
Pumps and motors
(delivery capacity 15 I/sec)           45,000 U       90,000         45,000
Reservoir                            80-100000 U      100,000         80,000
Treatment Plant                      60-125,000 U      125,000          62,500
Pipelines (6" 0) (connecting
well to reservoir)                          25 Im    125,000         12,500
Electrical Connections                   13,500 km      13,500         13,500
Subtotal                                687,500        291,500
Total                            979,000



EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST OF UNIT TYPES
(April 77--Colones)
Service Levell             A           A                A                B              B          B           C            C          D
Centrally-located Facilities
Serviced    Rental          Sanitary           Basic         Sanitary   Basic       Expanded    Condo-    Fondo
Item                                              Lots        Unit            Core              UJnit          Unit       Unit        Unit       minium,    Unit
Lot size (m2)                67        17.5             67                67              67         67          67        36.5        102
Total built area             -           9.0              2.6             15.7             4.6       14.3        28.5      29.7         42
(a) Sanitary unit         -           1.5              2.6              2.6              4.6        4.6         4.6      5.4          3
th) Dwelling              -           7.5              -               13.1              -         9.7        23.9      24.3         39
URBANIZED LAND
(a) Land i                                                     703        184              703               703             703        703         703      383        1,071
(b) Water, sewerage, roads,
footpaths, storm drains                                    770        201              655               655             770        770         770       420       1,173
CORE UNITS
(c) Contractor components                                        -        934              203               634             552        877       1,170    1,508         1,972
(d) Mutual-help materials                                        -        267               93               341             156        326         587      758        1,264
(e) Water meter and connection                                  220         22               22               22             175        175         175       175          175
ADMINISTRATION                            c/
(Design, engineering and managementc                            192       350              238               407             369        493         632       671        1,102
OTEBR
Tf) Approval of plans, hydraulic proofs
and water development charg,                                45        45                45               45              45         45          45        45           45
(g) Interest during constructionT                                58        67                65               94              87        108         132       12'          224
TOTAL             1,988      2,070            2,024            2,901           2,857      3,497       4,214    4,087         7,026
(US$)               795       828               810            1,160           1,143      1,400       1,686    1,635         2,810
a/ Estimated at  O1O.52' salable m2, based on a weighted average of 6417 Of u,,iis in San Salvador
and 36% in secondary cities, anid 60% salable land.
b/ ¢11.50 per salable m2, except centrally-located facilities on which savings of about 15% are
estimated.
C/ Calculated at 251, of itens ,b), (c) and (d).
d/ Estimated at 5.4'W per annum representing PSVM's average cost of Cunds over a 15 month
constructi-n period calculated sno the average azmount invested (excluding water meter
and connecti-na,.



ANNEX 3
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
SMALL BUSINESS EXTENSION SCHEME
A. Purpose
1.        The small business extension scheme has two principal objectives:
the expansion of employment and increased income levels in poor urban com-
munities ("comunidades marginales") of El Salvador. A double-pronged ap-
proach involving provision of credit and technical assistance to help
develop skill levels will be used, though participants may utilize either
service without the other if they so wish. Relatively little is known
about the growth patterns and response of informal businesses to this kind
of program and a third objective will therefore be to gain a better under-
standing of the real impact of such programs by utilizing various approaches
and policies which will be closely monitored and periodically evaluated
(see para 37).
B. Beneficiaries
2.        The program is designed to reach proprietors of small enterprises
living within marginal communities currently operating almost exclusively
outside the Banking system. Partnerships or groups as well as formally
structured cooperatives will also be eligible for assistance. Preference
will be given to upgrading and serviced site areas and to owners with one
year or more of experience. Entrepreneurs living outside such areas may
participate but must have assets falling below ¢ 5,000 (US$2,000) or for
cooperatives 0 10,000 (US$4,000) in order to qualify. If it appears that
the enterprise is large enough to qualify for assistance from FIGAPE,
INSAFOCOOP or private banks, an assessment of the total assets of the enter-
prise will also be made regardless of location. The intention of this type
of "exceptions only" investigation of asset ceilings is to minimize the
amount of administration required for loan initiation which represents the
most expensive phase of operation. For loans of the small size envisioned
here such costs could amount to a sizable percentage of the loan amount.
Enterprises assisted under the program when in their early stages of growth
will continue to remain eligible until they reach an asset position of
0 15,000 (US$6,000) or, in the case of cooperatives, ¢ 25,000 (US$10,000).
3.        A survey of enterprises to be dealt with under this program
revealed a wide range of informal activities falling broadly into two
categories: production of goods and services. The former includes clothing
and footwear, leather goods, furniture, other wood products, tin goods,
general household articles, tapestry and bakeries. Service establishments
involve repair of automobiles and electrical equipment such as radios or
phonographs, food processing, small grocery shops, photo shops, barber
shops, beauty salons, plumbers and small transportation enterprises. The
products and services of the enterprises participating in the program will



ANNEX 3
Page 2
be marketed principally among residents of marginal communities. It may
be possible, however, to penetrate new markets through cooperative efforts
under the program.
C. Urban Credit Component
4.        Purposes of loans:  Loans will be g-anted for three types of uses:
(i) working capital; (ii) acquisition of tools and equipment; and (iii) con-
struction and improvement of workshops. A revolving fund within the
Federacion capitalized at about ¢ 7.5 (US$3.0) million will be divided among
the three uses as follows: about 40% (¢ 3.0 or US$1.2 million) will be
employed to finance working capital, another 40% (¢ 3.0 or US$1.2 million)
for machinery and equipment, and 20% (¢ 1.5 or US$0.6 million) for construction
or improvement of workshops necessary for the enlargement or establishment of
small enterprises.
5.        Loan amounts:  Borrowings by beneficiaries of the program will be
within the following limits:
Repayment            Loan Amount (¢)
Type of Loan                 Period             Minimum  Maximum
(years)
Working capital              1-2                   100    6,000
Tools/equipment              1-5                   100    6,000
Workshop construction
or improvement             2-12                 250    6,000
a/ Ceilings for cooperatives or other formal groups will be
¢ 12,000.
No enterprise may borrow more than ¢ 6,000 (¢ 12,000 for a cooperative) at
any given time.  Smaller amounts, however, may be borrowed from each category
up to a limit of 0 6,000.
6.        Terms:  The amortization period for each category of loan will
differ. For credit destined for the formation of working capital, the term
will be no longer than two years nor less than one year, with a grace period
of up to six months. In the case of acquisition of equipment, machinery,
tools, or furniture, the maximum term will be five years and the minimum one
year with a grace period of one year. Financing for construction, repair,
extension or improvement of workshops will be granted with a maximum of
twelve years and a minimum of two and a grace period of one year. Although
minimum amortization periods have been set, any borrower who chooses to pre-
pay a loan before the due date may do so without penalty. Similarly, grace
periods will be waived at the request of a borrower. Amortization will be
through equal monthly payments of capital and interest. When a grace period
is granted, interest will be paid monthly.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        All loans will carry a 15% interest rate payable on the outstanding
balance which is at the upper end of the range of commercial loan rates for
productive activities of between 6.5-15%. This allows an approximate 8.4%
spread for the Federacion above their cost of funds.  The markup will be
broken down as follows:
Training                       2.9
Administration                 2.5
Bad debts reserve              1.5
Profit/capitalization          1.5
Total      8.4
The 8.4% is based on the administrative budget for the small business scheme
(Table 1) and the Federacion's record of bad debts under the "popular credit"
and "rural credit" schemes which is currently less than 1%. An additional
one-time application fee of 1.5% of the loan amount would be charged to all
first-time borrowers which will be used to help cover training costs. In
order to enable lowest-income families who generally have very small amounts
of cash or savings on hand access to larger loan amounts for workshops or
major equipment which will be amortized over longer periods, the application
fee will be paid in stages. One-third (0.5%) will be paid upon submission of
the loan application and the remaining amount (1%) after loan approval. This
1% may be withheld by the Federacion from the loan amount disbursed if the
recipient is unable to pay cash. In the event the loan application is rejected,
the latter 1% payment would not be required.
8.        Subloan disbursement:  Disbursement will generally be made in
cash particularly for relatively small sums. For amounts of over 0 500
direct payment may be made to suppliers of the materials, equipment or
implements being acquired. The system would work in roughly the following
manner: borrowers will obtain an invoice quoting quantities and prices of
the goods they intend to acquire signed by the shop owner. A check will be
prepared by the Federacion in the specified amount made out to the shop.
Checks will be validated by a second signature of the borrower upon the face
of the check, indicating that he has received the goods in the specified
quantities. In cases involving construction of, or major repairs to small
workshops, disbursement will be made in two or more tranches. After an initial
advance in cash, subsequent payments will require reasonable demonstration
that the previous amount was utilized for the intended purpose. This may
involve periodic site visits to verify construction progress. Although large
materials orders would be paid against invoices as noted above, payments
for specialized skills and/or labor would be paid in cash to the owner against
signed invoices of the laborers, or against their receipts.
9.        Collateral:  Guarantees required by the Federacion will consist of
chattel or mortgage collateral for loans under categories ii) and iii)
involving larger items of equipment or workshops. The Federacion should re-
quire that insurance be acquired on major machinery, equipment and/or work-
shops with the Federacion named as beneficiary.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       Working capital loans will be secured through co-signers or
shared group liability and by funds accumulated through a "self-financing"
saving plan. The group liability concept has been borrowed from the
"Popular Credit" program (see Annex lb) where it has proven quite effective.
Small groups of 5-10 individuals are formed into a borrowing unit. Members'
signatures are sufficient to establish the unit which acts as the "borrower"
of the funds, though it is not a legally registered entity. Members act as
co-signers for one another, spreading responsibility in the event of a de-
fault over a larger membership. All group members lose their borrowing
privileges if the group defaults. Since alternative borrowing sources
(traditional money lenders) charge rates of up to 12% per day for a few days
at a time (the Federacion's annual rate), strong incentives exist for covering
one another's temporary arrearages or even overt defaults.
11.       The self-financing savings plan, which is applicable only to work-
ing capital loans, is intended to assist entrepreneurs develop their own
working capital through savings in the Federacion. In addition, such sums
will act as another form of credit security.  Borrowers will save about 5%
of the family's disposable income. Borrowers of more than one loan would not
be required to save on an accumulated basis more than 25% of the total amount.
The borrower/saver will receive annual interest on his savings account equal
to that paid on savings deposits in commercial banks. Savings amounts in
excess of the outstanding amount of the loan(s) may be withdrawn without the
borrower leaving the system. Anyone may, of course, prepay his loan and
withdraw his savings at any time should he so wish. Such persons would not
pay the "first time" borrower's application fee again should they wish to take
another loan in the future.
12.       The forms of collateral within the Urban Credit Program are somewhat
unique in that traditional types of security (mortgages, chattel liens) will
be used on goods and properties of relatively low value, and group guarantees
will be based essentially on a strong incentive system dictated by the market
cost of borrowing outside bank circles. The system has worked well for the
Popular Credit Program (evidenced by a very low 1.6% risk reserve surcharge)
and should prove equally effective for urban credit.
13.       Application procedure:  Application forms will be available at com-
munity centers in various upgrading and FSVM communities, at the central
office of the Federacion or at affiliated Caja offices. Personnel of FSVM,
IVU, and the Federacion will be briefed on the program and be able to assist
potential borrowers in completing the form. If a co-signer is involved,
information will be required about his financial position and ability to
effectively guarantee the loan. In cases where an informal group is to act as
borrower and co-guarantors, the staff of the Federacion will assist them in
the organization of the group and an orientation will be held to explain how
the program works, and the rights and responsibilities of each party.
14.       For requests exceeding ¢ 1,500 (US$600) the enterprise will be
visited by a Federacion staff member who will undertake a simple feasibility
study of the operation. The study, together with the application form, will
be reviewed by a Selection Committee of the Federacion which will make the



ANNEX 3
Page 5
final decision on the loan approval. The Committee will be made up of three
members: the Assistant General Manager for Finance, the Assistant General
Manager for Cajas and the Head of the Popular Credit Scheme. Meetings will
be held weekly or as required to insure speedy processing of applications.
In the event of nonavailability of one committee member, a department head
will be named by the General Manager to take his place. Loan requests of
between 0 100-1,499 will be approved on the basis of the applicant's
information and a brief evaluation and written recommendation by the staff.
Home visits will normally not be required for such cases in view of the large
number of applicants anticipated. In all cases the borrower will retain
copies of his application and any feasibility study undertaken for his loan.
15.       Although the program is accessible to all marginal communities it
will be initially focused primarily upon those in which IVU and FSVM have
serviced site or upgrading work constituting a fairly large population.
Accordingly, these institutions will act as promoters for the Federacion,
publicizing its program, identifying potential borrowers, and assisting them
in the application process. The agencies, however, will not participate in
the selection of beneficiaries which will be the sole jurisdiction of the
Federacion's technical Selection Committee.
16.       Processing of applications will require between two to four weeks.
Tn the case of small loans in amounts below ¢ 1,500, disbursement could be
made within about two weeks. For larger amounts involving a simple feasibility
study, a month is more likely. The period of time required for approval and
initial disbursement is important for smaller businesses and is the greatest
advantage of the private money lender and the reason why he often continues
to thrive despite efforts by a few pioneering institutions to reach lower-
income borrowers. The two to four weeks processing period is considered
quite reasonable, however, and is comparable to that achieved in the Popular
Credit Scheme. The steps involved would be as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Formation of Groups and
Preparation of
Loan Application
I
Loans                                Loans
under                                over
Oi,500                               91,500
Review by Loan Initiation              Preparation of Feasibility
Section and preparation                 Study and Recommendation
of recommendation                      by Loan Initiation Section
(2 days)                                (10 days)
I       1L                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Review by
Urban Credit Department Head
(1 day)
Presentation
to Selection Committee
(5 days)
Notification                              Notification
of Applicant                             of Disbursement
(4 days)                                    Section
(2 days)
Preparation of
Case Records
(2 days)
Disbursement
17.       Organization and Management: The administration of the program
will be the responsibility of a new department of the Federacion, which will
be directly under the Assistant General Manager for Finance (see Chart 16455.)



ANNEX 3
Page 7
The department will be organized and staffed in the following manner:
Urban Credit
Department Chief
Assistant
Support Personnel
Loan                 Disbursements       Collection       Training and
Initiation                    and                       Technical Assistance
I                     Accounts                                l
Loan Officers (3-5)          Accountant (1)  Collection         Trainers (12)
Officers (2)
A Department Chief and Deputy Chief will manage the program. Four sections
will be created to deal with the major phases of lending operations. The Loan
Initiation Section will be staffed with three officers responsible for
reviewing applications and preparing recommendations. Two loan officers will
ascertain the level of assets where required and will carry out promotional
activities to inform potential borrowers of the new program. They will also
be responsible for preparing simple feasibility studies for projects involving
investments of over 0 1,500. The Disbursement and Accounts Section would
handle payment to approved borrowers along the lines discussed in para. 8 and
would maintain all financial records on the program which will be computerized
and stored within the existing facilities in the Federacion. The use of a
special IBM program will considerably simplify the control of what is expected
to be a very large number of small loans. Collection and processing of re-
payments will be the responsibility of the Collections Section. Two staff
will handle this task, one of whom would take specific responsibility for pay-
ments which have fallen into arrears involving home visit to collect or
reschedule debts and any necessary follow-up on the part of the Federacion's
Legal Department. Data processing will also be utilized for maintaining
repayment records. The staffing and functions of the training section are
discussed in paras 21-24.
18.       Implementation Schedule:  The project will begin in mid-1977 with
a pilot stage for marginal communities only in San Salvador, capitalized up
to about 4 3.75 (US$1.5) million representing about half the total fund.
During this phase the new pricing structure and operating procedures for the
Urban Credit Scheme will be closely monitored.
19.       At the termination of the first year of operations, a comparative
study will be made of the Urban and Popular Credit Scheme. The study will
involve an assessment of the real administrative and training costs, arrearage
and default, loan initiation and approval timetable, and overall profit/loss
position. To the extent possible, the impact of the program on the partici-
pating businesses will also be assessed. The primary objective of the review



ANNEX 3
Page 8
at this stage, however, is to determine whether the pricing structure
during the first phase is financially viable and what adjustments--if
any--are required to insure that it remains so. A report will be
prepared containing specific recommendations on the preceding points
including any other necessary adjts tments to the scheme by mid-1978.
Following a joint review by the Government, the Federacion and the Bank,
the two programs of Popular and Urban Credit will be adjusted to reflect
similar pricing and other guidelines agreeable to the Bank. (For a full
description of the Popular Credit Program see Annex lb.
20.       Following the introduction of the revised pricing structure a
second stage will be initiated extending operations to the cities of Santa
Ana, San Miguel, Santa Tecla and Sonsonate.   Capitalization of the scheme
will be completed and drawdown of the full loan amounts will take place.
The monthly timetable of the program is expected to proceed as follows:
April 1977         Establishment of the new Urban Credit Department
and selection of the new Department Head and other
personnel; orientation and training in objectives
and procedures;
May 1977           Initiation of program operations in San Salvador
and establishment of the format of the evaluative
study of the new Urban Credit program;
December 1977     Progress review of the Utban Credit Scheme;
May 1978           Report on results of the evaluative study;
June 1978         Joint review of study results (Govt/Bank/
Federacion); agreement on revised pricing
structure;
July 1978          Initiation of second phase of the program
extending operations to secondary cities;
expansion of available lending capital;
December 1978     The program will be evaluated annually in order
to determine ongoing adjustments.
D. Technical Assistance and Training
21.       A complementary program of training and technical assistance will
be available to participants in the Urban Credit Scheme. Generally the pro-
gram will be voluntary; available on request to those wishing to take
advantage of the specialized skills and information being offered. The
costliness and scarcity of technical expertise to manage such schemes place
severe constraints on the number of persons who can be reached. Two kinds
of entrepreneur are expected to participate. The first--those with
initiative and a desire to gain new skills or sharpen those they have--will
be identified through general public information on the availability of the
program or by community workers (FOCCO, FSVM or the Federacion) or the local



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Community Organization which will contain a Businessman's Association.
In addition, the Federacion may require a borrower to receive training
or assistance before and/or during the term of his loan particularly in
cases of high arrearage or a previous business failure. In the latter
case specialized efforts will be undertaken to identify and rectify the
specific source of his business problem.
22.       Content:  Courses offered within communities at local schools or
community centers will emphasize basic administration and management, very
simple accounting systems, inventory control, purchasing and marketing.
One trainer will generally be responsible for organizing activities for
three communities. Introductory or orientation sessions will initially be
offered to familiarize the community with the Federacion program and vice
versa. After several sessions, more specific courses would be organized
to meet the particular needs of business activities in that settlement.
Typical examples of such courses might include:
(a) the operation of small shops covering stock control, cash flow,
simple accounting systems, etc.;
(b) woodworking products, covering purchasing and proper storage
of materials, production methods, marketing, inventory
control, machinery, maintenance and repair; or
(c) service trades covering advertising, marketing, personnel
hiring, training and supervision.
23.       Assuming each trainer offered three 2-hour classes per week with
an average attendance of 25 per class the ratio of trainers to trainees
would be approximately 1:75. Besides offering courses, trainers will also
act as extension agents, dealing directly with specific problems of
individual enterprises or groups of enterprises in the communities. Special
seminars or short courses may be initiated on particular subjects if need
should arise. Trainers will have access to short-term consulting services
of experts in topics such as mechanics, specific production problems, legal
issues or management. Some trainers may themselves specialize in particular
skills and "float" among various communities rather than undertaking
organizational responsibilities for two or three. Promotion personnel, who
will receive a thorough orientation on the business scheme, will form an
integral part of the team. They will be responsible for organizing an infor-
mation campaign on the program, helping identify potential borrowers, and
assisting residents in preparing application forms. Together with the
trainers they will also foster and follow up on joint liability groups;
cooperatives, and special interest associations such as purchasing or
marketing cooperatives.
24.       An effort will be made to organize marketing efforts by individual
entrepreneurs both to capture larger contracts which individual enterprises
would be unable to fulfill by themselves and to gain entry into new markets.
For the latter a training program would probably be required coupled with
careful quality control to insure products gained acceptance.   A major



ANNEX 3
Page 10
constraint to small business expansion is the relatively small local
market in a tiny country such as El Salvador; a situation which is
exacerbated by the highly skewed income distribution and limited pur-
chasing power of a large proportion of the population. Efforts will be
undertaken through the program to identify potential new markets and
develop the skills needed to exploit them.
25.       Administration:  The Federacion will establish a training
section within its Urban Credit Department which would be responsible
for executing the training program. The unit would be staffed with two
sections as shown below. Funds would be available for a pool of short-
term technical consultants and for technical assistance to the unit in
program development and training of trainers.
Section Head
Support Services
(1)  Secretary
(1)  Driver
Consulting Services
Promotion                       Training
(1)  Loan Officer               (1)  Training Supervisor
(7) Trainers
(2) Assistants
(-) Consultant Pool
26.       The Federacion will coordinate its training efforts with the FSVM,
which has established a fairly successful though small-scale cooperative
program as part of its overall community development efforts. FSVM will
offer limited amounts of training to promising students through its new
artisan school. The Federacion will help identify potential applicants. Tle
Fundacion will also direct individuals or cooperative enterprises to the
Federacion for credit and for training. Recommendation by an intermediary,
however, is not required for eligibility nor will it give any advantage in
selection. The potential viability and need of the enterprise will be the
prime determining factors.
27.       Community Role:  At the local level, a special secretariat for
business will be formed within the Community Associations (see Upgrading
Annex for full description and Organizational Chart on Associations) to
organize and coordinate work within each community. Typically the Secretary
of Commerce and Employment, one of 8-10 secretaries within the usual community
organization, will be charged with:
(a)  identifying and helping develop community productive projects
involving community members as both stockholders and employees
(or alternatively set up as cooperative projects);
(b)  identifying community employment needs and helping the
unemployed find jobs and vocational training; and



ANNEX 3
Page 11
(c) organizing an association of community enterprises which would
provide a number of services to its members, such as:
(i) collection and delivery of monthly payments to the Federacion;
(ii) identification of special training needs and arranging
assistance or courses;
(iii) assistance in applying for loans; and informing the neces-
sary shared liability groups for working capital loans; and
(iv) helping form and register cooperatives.
Association members may be required to pay a nominal membership fee which
would defray secretariat expenses and help capitalize community projects.
Associations supported at the local level may help overcome several of the
thorniest problems of small producers which relate to their scale of pur-
chase and production. Bulk purchase could be arranged and storage facilities
provided for temporary excesses. The Association might secure contracts for
supplying quantities of a given product which no individual enterprise by
itself could fulfill (see para. 24). Problems of quality control, ware-
housing and interim payment arrangements would, of course, have to be resolved
but do not appear insurmountable with adequate technical backup from the
Federacion and other agencies.
28.       The development of local associations is a major objective of the
second project and is particularly important for the long-term success of the
business program as they will assume responsibility for an increasing number
of functions which, at the start, must be provided by the Federacion or FSVM
personnel. Services such as information and publicity campaigns help in pre-
paring loan applications, identification of training needs, etc. All carry
administrative costs which increase the program's dependence on grant funds
and--to the extent such expenses are recovered--the cost of funds to the
borrowers. Assumption of an increasing number of such functions by effective
local associations builds greater independence into the program and enhances
its chances for longer-term success.
29.       Implementation Timetable:  The initial phase of training and
technical assistance will be experimental in nature, relying on fairly short
courses designed to introduce the trainers to their clients and vice versa.
A detailed course work program will be developed from the experience gained
in the first phase based on actual skills levels and problems being
encountered by entrepreneurs. Within about six months of the onset of the
credit program regular classes will be constituted in the communities showing
the greatest response. When the program is extended into secondary cities
in 1978, operations will be extended to regional offices, though frequent
contact will be retained for planning and training purposes. The monthly
execution schedule for the program will be as follows:
April 1977: Staffing of the Urban Credit Department and the training
of trainers;



ANNEX 3
Page 12
May 1977:  Initiation of Phase I of technical assistance program
and development of first Community Association with
Business Secretariats;
Oct. 1977: Establishment of regular training courses in 15-20
communities; and
July 1978: Expansion of program in San Salvador into secondary cities.
E. Cost Recovery
30.       Costs of the Small Business Extension Scheme are detailed in the
Annex on Project Costs. Full costs incurred by the Federacion for lending
principle, administration, training, and all related expenses will be re-
covered from recipients of credit. Two kinds of charges will be made: a
15% interest rate and a one-time application fee to new borrowers. As noted
in para. 7, the 15% rate covers the estimated 6.6% financial cost of
Federacion borrowings and allows the institution an 8.4% margin including
2.5% for administrative expenses, 1.5% for risk reserve to cover defaults,
1.5% markup for profits and capitalization and a training fee.  On average,
¢ 100 lent for one year to a first-time borrower would result in the
following revenues:
Expense                          Revenue
(Colones)                        (Colones)
Interest on borrowing    6.6       Interest            15.0
Administrative costs      2.5      Application fee      1.5
Bad debts reserve         1.5
Training costs (reserve) 4.4
Profit/capitalization    1.5                           _
Total      16.5                          16.5
Second-time borrowers would not be charged the 1.5% application fee resulting
in a slightly reduced income. Both administration and training costs should
be lower in such cases, however, balancing the effect of the lowered revenue.
Although working capital loans will be relatively more expensive to administer
than longer-term credits, all loans will be charged the same percent creating
a surplus on larger loan amounts. This differential is expected to cover the
higher administrative costs of short-term loans.
31.       Collections:  Individual borrowers and representatives of shared
liability groups must make their monthly payments at the central offices of
the Federacion or at the local credit unions in secondary cities. This system
has been found workable under the Popular Credit Program and considerably
reduces collection costs to the agency. In settlements with effective
Community Associations, experimental collection programs may be tried out
utilizing the Association as an intermediary in return for a small fee to be
used to cover any real administrative costs with any surplus being used for
community purposes.



ANNEX 3
.e 1l
32.       Procedures for dealing with accounts which fall into arrears
will be as follows:
Day 1/Month 1:   Due date;
Day 2/Month 1:   If payment is not received on the due date, a first
reminder will be issued to the borrower immediately;
Day 12/Month 1:  Second written notification of late payment to
borrower with copies to other members of the shared
liability group or other guarantors;
Day 22/Month 1:   Third written notification of late payment to both
borrower and group members summoning the borrower for
a conference to reschedule payments and establishing
a term of 15 days for the payment of his overdue debt.
The notice will further advise the borrower that in the
event payment is not made during the period indicated
and no agreement reached on a revised payment schedule
collection will be turned over to the Legal Department;
Day 7/Month 2:    Federacion staff will make a home visit for the purpose
of collecting or rescheduling the debt if the borrower
has not yet visited the Central Office. Another 30 days
will be allowed before the first payment falls due under
any new amortization schedule;
Day 21/Month 2    In the event no satisfactory rescheduling can be arranged
the case will be turned over to the Legal Department for
processing;
Day 1/Month 3      Issuance of legal notice of foreclosure on property or
chattel collateral of borrower, or of legal entitlement
by the Federacion to payment by co-guarantors. This
notice will be personally served on the borrower and on
the chairman of the group of guarantors. The duration of
legal proceedings would vary with the type of collateral
and whether a group was involved as co-guarantor and
might be anywhere from 10-60 days. Termination of the
case might therefore take place any time between the
third and fifth month.
In all cases, an additional 3% annual charge will be made to the borrower on
amounts in arrears.
33.       Evaluation:  Both the credit and training components of the business
project will be evaluated after one year. The pricing structure and operating
procedures for the Urban Credit Scheme will be closely monitored by the
Federacion through a special study. An assessment will also be made of the
effectiveness of the lending criteria, including a comparison of the payment
record of more established businesses (e.g. with one year or more of the



ANNEX 13
Page 14
relevant experience) who currently receive priority with those having less
than a year's experience. The impact of the program on the borrower's
businesses and those of a similar nature in the same vicinity will also be
reviewed to determine the amount of additional employment and/or income which
has been generated and other effects. The Federacion will also carry out a
survey of borrowers to identify training needs, buying and marketing
locations, and potential cooperative activities which could help reduce costs
or expand markets.
April 6, 1977



EL SALVADOR
Seconl Urban Development Project
ADMIISTRATION
SNALL BUSINESS SCHEM
(FEDEACION)
Length of
Service
(Cumulative   Annual Salaryr
Item                  Number   in years)        Level              Subtotal         Total
--- --Colones----
Salaries
Department Chief         1         4            18,100              72,1400
Assistant                1         4            10,700              42,800
Loan Officers           3-5        17            8,000             136,000
Accountant               1          4           144,985              59,940
Collection Officers      2         7             8,240              57,680
Support Personnel        3        12             4,730              56.76o
Total   11-13                                      I425,580        425,580
Benefits (20%)                                                           85,1l0          85,110
OveratiLo
Supplies, repairs,
maint nauoe, rental
of IBM equipment,
misc.                                                                              63,830
Equipment
Electric Typewriters     2                                           4,o000
Manual Typewriters       5                                           2,500
Calculators              6                                           1,800
Furniture                -                                            7,840         16 140O
TOTAL                                                16P10         50@$ 
_  _               ~H W



EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SMALL BUSINESS SCHEME
Length of
Service     Annual
(Cumulative   Salary        Subtotal          Total
Item                        Number        years) -      -Colones ------
Salaries
Section Head                   1           4          17,500         70,000
Trainer Supervisor             1            4         16,000         64,000
Trainer                        7          27           8,100        218,700
Loan Officer                   1            4          8,100         32,400
Part-time Community
Assistants                   2            8          2,840         22,710
Support Personnel              2            8          5,200         41,600
55                       149,1410            449410
Benefits (20%)                                                            89,880              89,880
Consultants
Pool for Training                                                    14,610
Program     Development
and Training of Trainers                                           15,000
29,610              29,610
Operations
Supplies, repairs, main-
tenance, rental, etc.                                              56,910              56,910
Equipment
Audio-visual aids              _                                        750
Motorcycles                    3                                      12,000
Vehicle                        1                                      12,000
Typewriter, etc.               1                                         500
25,250              6H I5
6511,060~~N



ANNEX 4
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
DETAILED FEATURES
A. Sites and Services Component
Physical Characteristics
1.        Sites are selected with physical characteristics suitable for low-cost
solutions from the standpoint of ease and economy of development (Annex 5). A
majority of land in each site has even terrain with minimal slopes (generally less
than 10%) to minimize costly grading and lower costs of on-site infrastructure.
Irregular terrain or land with slopes greater than 10% is aportioned to the
periphery of the sites as open space. The sites are well drained. In all cases,
the sites are vacant or in agricultural use (coffee or cotton).
2.        All project locations are reviewed by appropriate authorities (ANDA and
DUA) prior to FSVM acquisition to determine conformity with existing zoning and to
insure the accessibility of development approvals and permits and the provision
of municipal services such as trash collection and street lighting; final selec-
tion of project sites is subject to Bank approval.
Site Layouts
3.        Basic criteria used in planning sites and services areas are essentially
the same as those under the first project (see Report No. 473a-ES, Annexes h & 5).
Innovations and new features reflect the evolution of design concepts derived
from FSVM's experience. Preliminary site plans and engineering for San Miguel
and Sonsonate sites were prepared (Map 12513 ). Detailed engineering and layout
plans for the San Miguel I project of the first loan (the latest FSVM layout
incorporating recent design and service level innovations) are representative of
layouts to be designed for this project. The layouts are simple and efficient
emphasising economic construction and servicing. Visual monotony has been avoided
by the use of small open spaces--"mini parks"--around which 12-20 plots are
clustered. A network of pedestrian walkways is also provided, linking the lots
to commercial areas, community facilities, open space, and public transport stops.
The pedestrian walkways also contain water pipes, sanitary sewerage pipes, storm
water drainage channels and provide access to emergency vehicles such as fire
trucks and ambulances. Large centrally located open spaces have been provided
for schools and other community facilities. The smaller, more disbursed open
spaces of the cluster layout within residential areas gives ready access to play
areas essential in projects with smaller lot sizes. Existing site amenities,
such as trees, are retained wherever possible. A small percentage of Service
Level I plots will be locations of prime commercial potential. These will allow
combined development of shops or businesses with residential units in the rear
of the plot or on a second-story. Unit density, an important efficiency deter-
minant for layout design, for four FSVM projects has been 77 units/ha which is
well within acceptable standards.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Infrastructure
3.        The design of the infrastructure is based on the standards of ANDA
and DUA. In order to reach the lower end of the household income scale, stan-
dards were lowered in some cases by initially providing reduced standard solu-
tions with provision for future improvements, often through mutual or self-help.
(Detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 2). FSVM has been partially success-
ful in petitioning modifications of official development standards to achieve
these cost savings, yet the absence of appropriate standards for sites and
services schemes is a constraint. FSVM is carrying out studies and evaluations
of its projects to best assess and recommend new development norms specifically
for serviced sites and progressive development projects.
Roads, Parking and Pedestrian Footpaths
4.        Each site will have a network of main and secondary circulation pro-
viding convenient vehicular access and connections with off-site access roads
while restricting through traffic to a minimum. These provide access to pri-
vate cars, emergency and service vehicles (ambulances, fire trucks, trash re-
moval trucks, etc.).  Road reserves are 10 to 12 meters in width, with carriage-
ways of 7 meters. Parking areas served by the access roads are provided. Most
access roads are paved, those unpaved are graded and compacted. Storm drainage
is provided and curbs are installed on main roads. Final paving is to be accom-
plished through mutual-help after project occupancy, and is included in project
costs. Road paving through mutual-help has been successfully accomplished in
earlier FSVM projects.
5.        Most internal circulation is by a footpath network accommodating
pedestrians, bicycles and emergency vehicles. The footpaths connect all lots
with public areas and facilities, as well as with adjoining existing streets
and footpaths. Footpath reserves are 5 meters in width and will be paved by
mutual-help prior to lot occupancy. It has proven useful to have paved sur-
faces and drainage canals during self-help construction--especially during heavy
seasonal rains.
Water Suppl
6.        Individual water supply connections for a water closet, shower, and
pila (laundry and dish washing stand), will be provided to each lot. Individual
metered water service will be provided by 1/2 inch pipes. The distribution
system follows the road and footpath layout and consists of 2 inch diameter
pipes of pvc and 4 inch and 6 inch diameter pipes of asbestos cement or pvc.
The water system is designed to provide 100 to 250 liters per person per day.
Consumption design standards for each site are based upon specific ANDA standards
for the regional site location. The minimum required water supply to operate
the sanitary network is 60 liters per day. Water meters are those specified by
ANDA regulations. The cost of the meter and box is 0165 (approximately Us$66).
Ordinarily, ANDA supplies and installs the meters and requires full payment by
the property owner over a 36-month term. However, to reduce total monthly pay-
ments, the meter, box and installation are included as part of the project,
and therefore paid over a 20-year period.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        Fire hydrants will be located at appropriate points in the circulation
network.  The maximum distance from any lot is 150 meters.
Drainage
8.        The design criteria for storm water drainage is based on a storm
intensity of 2.9 inches per hour. Drainage is accomplished by a combination
of surface run-off and sub-surface piping network. Natural drainage patterns
are retained as much as possible. Piping will be of plain and reinforced con-
crete in diameters as required. Each lot is provided with a patio drain with
piped discharge to a main collector system to minimize the volume of earth-
works and differentiation in level of plot and footpath. This system also
eliminates open drainage channels along either side of the footpath walkways
which would carry waste water from patios and surface run-offs to area drains
leading into the piped drainage network. Final discharge is into existing
urban systems where available or into streams or adiacent natural water courses
by means of protected outfalls.
Sanitary Sewerag&e
9.        Each lot will be provided with individual sanitary units and individual
connections to the sewage collection network. The sewerage system design is
based on:
- an average daily flow of 80% of the average daily water
consumption;
- a peak of twice the average flow; and
- an allowance of 0.2 liters per second per hectare for
infiltration.
Thie sewer collection network consists of 4 inch laterals from the lots, and 6,
8, 10 and 12 inch mains of plain concrete pipe. Where required in special
cases, steel and reinforced concrete pipe is used.  Minirum depth to top of
pipes laid in roadways is 30 centimeters. Manholes are brick masonry with
concrete rings and covers. The overall sewerage specifications conform to
ANDA requirements.
Electricity
10.       Service levels in plots B, C and D are provided with a minimal elec-
trical system. CAESS (a private company) installs the electrical distribution
network on poles along roads and footpaths at no cost to the lot owner. Each
lot can be provided with a metered electric connection on request. No connection
fee is charged. Street lighting on poles is also installed by CAESS at a spacing
of approximately 50 meters. The municipality generally pays CAESS for the
street lighting installation, recovering the cost through a monthly charge to
the lot owner based on lot frontage. Occasionally, CAESS finances installation,
recovering the cost directly from FSVM or the user.



Page 4
Service Levels
11.       All plots will have provisions for individual water, sanitary water-
borne sewerage and storm drainage.  Plots will vary in size from 60 m  to
80 m2; average area beini 75 min. While most plots in the San Salvador metro-
politan area are 60-75 me due to higher land costs and scarcity of land, those
in the secondary cities will be about 80 in2. The 60 r2 plot (5.25 m front-
age by I'I.LO in deoth) has been demonstrated to be functional and ample for
dwelling, of about 4O m2--h rooms plus kitchen/bath--and a 12 m2 courtyard.
These plot dinensions maximize party wall construction and therefore econo-
mies in constraction. A small number of strategically located plots within
each layout are provided as potential commer=ial/residential plots or for
exceptionally large or extended household that will require additional space.
Plot frsntages of between 5-6 m also Dermit ease of vertical expansion of the
dwelling. in addition to plot size options, four basic service level options
wil.l be offered (Annex 2, Table 4 and illustration 1):
(a)   Service Level A Options: a plot with basic infrastructure connec-
tions; a rental apartment; or a plot with centrally located, but
individual, sanitary facilities (see illustration). Total
develope,n. ';osts are frcm about 0 1,990-¢ 2,070 (US$795830).
fb)   Service Le-rel B Octions:  a plot with a sanitary core; basic
dwelling room ana plot; or a basic dwelling room with centrally
located samitary facilities. Total unit development costs range
from about 02,850--03,500 (US$1,145--1,400).
(c)   Service Level C Options:  a plot with expanded basic dwelling;
or a condominium apartment unit.  Total unit development costs
range from abouut a,100--04,200 (us$1,64o--1,68o).
(d)   Service Level D OPtions:  a "Fondo Unit" consisting of a 107 m2
clot with aa expanded 42 m2 dwelling for sale to participants of
the Fondo Social Housing Program. Total unit development cost
is abott 07,000 (US$2,800).
The 'cmix' or distributicn of these service levels for each project site is
determined by a pre-occupancy survey of participants demand and capacity to
pay.  There are four basic service level options determined by civil works
contract3-the four levels discussed above--from which combinations of mutual-
help and s&lf-help expansions determine the final service level cost oPtions of
the proiect narticipant (Chart WB 16657 and Photos).






ANNEX 4
Page 5
Lots with Centriely-;
/                       t                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~located individual  
D                ~~~~~~s-it.,-.ry facil-ities






ANNEX 4
"(oj:o:no--niu;al" Apartit.fnt Unit
____~                                                                  )      7
-~~~~~~~~~~~






<)Gro-ups of 20-25 families are formed
into mutual-help teams following com
.A.     \      ~     ! lll;fiai pletion of the contractor -built  cores.
. ....    -----SERVILED SITES
Mutual-help also  involves certain  com-
munity tasks such as paving of sidewalks
V_     retaining walls on steep gradients or in
this case construction  of a footbridge.
ma                        '    .¢t b--<  d PMaterials are generally  provided by the
community development  agency,
- FOCCO;  work may be supervised
by either FSVM or FOCCO staff.          -
Not all families participate in mutual-help. Some< 
prefer an unserviced lot where temporary shelters
are allowed until the family can afford to build. r 
l .<  Most families complete a habitable shelter within a
few months. Progressive development over the follow
ing two to three years eventually results in attrac
tive, individualistic homes complete with paved side
-4o-%+;  +~ walks, retaining walls, and many individual gardens.
9 t.       *    '             '   6.
?t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' e      .- 






ANNEx 4
Page 8
B. Community Facilities
12.       Various Government ministries with the assistance of FSVM are res-
ponsible for the construction and management of community facilities. A
detailed analysis of the needs of each project site will be jointly under-
taken by the Government and FSVM. The level of project provision is influ-
enced by the availability of similar facilities in cajacent areas, and by
those in projects of the first loan. The type, number of facilities programmed
for each site and their estimated cost is shown in Table 7 of Annex 2. All
the figures are based on contractor costs, although mutual-help labor will
be used in part for all facilities except health clinics.
Multipurpose Community Centers
13.       Multipurpose community centers will be constructed by FOCCO (Annex I)
with contributions of 40% in either labor or materials from project participants.
FOCCO has ample experience in mobilizing community efforts for a variety of
projects. Day-care services will be an integral part of the center's program,
administration and maintenance of these facilities will be by the community
organization.
1h.       A total of 16 community facilities will be required for both the
community action program included in the project, and for child-care services
to accommodate the high proportion of working women. Approximately 60% of
the total adult female population are employed, roughly half of whom represent
the sole means of family support. The distribution of community centers by
project site is shown in Table 7, Annex 2.
15.       FOCCO has designed two types of ccmmunity center buildings.  Both. are
similar to those of the first loan; Type A has an area of about 240 m2 and
Type B has about 150 m2. Since they are a focal point of community activity,
they are centrally located within each project; a paved, civic plaza is also
provided adjacent to the community house for large, community-wide meetings
and functions.
Markets
16.       Public markets will be built in the commercial areas of project
sites. In most cases, these will be located within the central civic plaza--
the area of greatest activity and volume of traffic (suitable for commerce
and marketing activities). Simple market sheds with open walls of approxi-
mately 200 m2 have been designed by FOCCO and FSVM. Each has provisions for
fixed stalls and for temporary produce sales. A total of 7 markets are
planned with two or three in the larger project sites, each requiring a lot
of approximately 400 m2. Most lands, services and superstructures associated
with markets will be sold to individuals or cooperatives as the FSVM does not
intend to retain extensive long-term management responsibilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Sports Fields
17.       FOCCO will also be responsible for the construction of sports
fields, including volley ball, football and basketball courts; designs
are similar to those under the first loan projects.
Health Services
18.       The Planning Department of the Ministry of Public Health and Social
Work (DPSS) is responsible for determining the number and location of health
facilities, their detailed design and for the implementation of the construction
program.    Two health units are programmed for San Salvador, one in Santa Ana
and an expansion of an existing facility in San Miguel. Each health unit will
provide preventive, curative and social health services, with the support of
a clinical laboratory. These health services are part of and continuation of
the DPSS National Plan for 1971-1977. The programs will emphasize the following:
(a)   Mother and infant care:  medical and advisory care during pregnancy,
birth and growth up to age 5. The program will provide nutritional
and health orientation to mothers, as well as a program for child
growth monitoring of weight, height and health;
(b)   Epidemology:  as part of the national program through the health
units, services will be provided for prevention, detection and
treatment of communicable diseases--specifically intentinal diseases
in the pre-schaol and school age population and malaria in coastal
secondary cities;
(cz) Odontological assistance: primarily through school programs for
fluoridization;
(d)  Environmenta laygiene program: for dissemination of information
and organization of improvement programs at a community level
through the individual community associations; and
(e)   Nutrition:  through an on-going program of information (a manual
of norms and procedures for minimum diet has been prepared);
vitamin A and nutrition study results are to be applied to the
program. Project social workers in coordination with the DPSS
will distribute information on food preparation, storage and
diet balancing. Literature and classes will form the basis of
the program with supplemental individual counselling through the
DPSS clinic staff and FSVM social workers.
19.       Design:  Buildings of about 400 m2 include two medical consultation
rooms, two dental treatment rooms, a pharmacy, first-aid room, laboratory and
administrative and sanitary facilities. DPSS with the help of the Departmento
de Ingeniera y Arquitectura (DIA) will be responsible for detailed designs.
DIA will coordinate with FSVM as to spacial requirements anw health unit
locations within project sites (see Annex 2 for costs).



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Schools
20.       The project will include construction, equipping and furnishing
of 12 basic schools with 4,800 student places (3,720 in grades 1-6 and
1,080 in grades 7-9) to serve 9,600 students on a double shift basis.
The number of student places to be constructed would serve approximately
95% of the estinated number of children aged 7 to 12 (grades 1-6) and 65%
of those aged 13 to 15 (grades 7-9) who would live in the serviced site
areas of the project (Chart 1) copmensurate with current participation
rates of these children in basic education. In conmunities smaller than
San Salvador and Santa Ana, projected enrollment figures are not sufficient
to justify a nine grade school and only schools with grades 1-6 will be
constructed.
21.       Based on the expected numbers and location of dwellings to be
constructed and proximity to existing facilities, eight schools will be
needed to serve students in grades 1-6 (three schools of 120 student places
each; two of 240 places; one of 360 places; and two of 480 places) and four
schools to serve students in grades 1-9 (one of 480 student places; one of
600 places; one of 720 places; and one of 840 places) as shown in Table 1.
All schools offering the third cycle would include basic laboratories and
workshops. Should the number and location of the housing units to be con-
structed by FSVM substantively change during implementation, the number
and type of schools to be constructed would also be revised in accordance
with Bank/Government agreement.
22.       As part of its master plan for each housing program, the FSVM
would provide open spaces where schools, community centers, health clinics
and playing fields would be constructed. Since schools would be contiguous
to community playing fields, the space reserved for each school would be
restricted to about five square meters per student place. Schools could
also be located on land which is near the FSVM housing locations or on
existing school grounds, provided that walking distances for children
living in FSVM locations would be reasonable.
23.       The Department of Educational Architecture (DAE) of the Ministry
of Education would be responsible for school design and for supervising
the construction, equipping and furnishingof the schools. The Planning
Office of the Ministry of Education (ODEPOR) would be responsible for
liaison with other Ministry of Education offices, which would collaborate
in the development of appropriate equipment lists and in the provision
of appropriate training courses (under the second education project) for
new teachers. DAE will appoint a full-time coordinator/project architect
together with additional engineers and supporting personnel by September30,
1977.
April 6, 1977



EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
EDUCATION COMPONENT
School Models, Number and Locations
--------------Teaching Areas----------------
Number of Student          Classrooms      Laboratories      Workshops      Number of
Places per School2/            per             per              per         Schools to
Type   Grades 1-6   Grades 7-9   School  Total   School  Total   School  Total    be Built              Locations
A         120             -         3        9        -      -         -       -          3        1 Sonsonate, 2
smaller urban
centers
B         240             -         6       12        -      -         -      -           2        Santa Ana
San Miguel
C         360             -         9        9        -      -         -       -          1        San Salvador
(Soyapango)
D         480             -        12       24        -      -         -       -          2         San Salvador
(2 Apopa)
E         240            240       10       10        1      1         1       1          1         Santa Ana
F         360            240       13       13        1      1         1       1          1         San Salvador
(Soyapango)
G         480           240        16       16        1      1         1       1          1        San Salvador
(Apopa)
H         480            360       18       18        1      1         2       2          1         San Salvador
Total:    3,720b/       1,O8Ob/              111                4                5         12         (Apopa)
_ _=_                                                                                                         (DIX
a/  All schools will be on double shift and serve twice this number of students.
b/  Totals reflect number of student places per school times number of schools.



EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
ESTDvATED SCHOOL ENROLLMENT, SERVICED SITES
Grades 1-6 (ages 7-12)     Grades 7-9 (ages 13-15)
Number of    Population                    Estimated                    Estimated
Municipality     Units      (6 per Unit)   Population-/   Enrollment   Population-/   Enrollment
San Salvador     5,700        34,200          5,774          5,485         2,695          1,752
Soyapango     1,700        10,200          1,622          1,541           775            504
Apopa         4,ooo        24,000          4,152          3,944         1,920          1,248
Santa Ana        1,000         6,000            960            912           450            293
Sonsonate          300         1,800            279            265           135              87
San Miguel         500         3,000            483            459           234            152
Others             500         3,000            507            481           237             154
Total:        8,000        48,ooo          8,003          7,603         3,751           2,438
H 3
a/  Based on percentages derived from the 1971 census.                                                     5D
RJ0






EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXAMPLES OF UNIT OPTIONS
SERVICE LEVELL
(SERVICED LOT)                                                      16m                    5m FOOTPATH
PLOT AREA = 8om2
SHELTER AREA = NONE
WI
BUILT BY CONTRACTOR:                           Z                                          | 0
WATER LINE, METER AND TAP                   CCI                                          |    :
E l
SEWERAGE POINT                           EBl
STORM DRAINAGE PIPE AND REGISTER                                                         (j 
BUILT BY MUTUAL-HELP                        1.                                          O-_J
COMUNITY WORK ONLY                                  ,                                      I
BUILT BY SELF-HELP
INITIAL TEMPORARY SHELTER
PERMANENT DWELLING
SERVICE LEVEL
(SANITARY UNIT)                                                                             Sm FOOTPATH
PLOT AREA = 80m2                            I                     16m
SHELTER AREA = 4.6 m 2_._
BUILT BY CONTRACTOR:                         I                                               I
AS ABOVE
FOUNDATIONS                             LEO r'
SOME WALLS                                    l                                            I
BUILT BY MUTUAL-HELP:
WALL  FLOOR  SHOWER  DOOR
ROOF  TOILET  SINK                                                TOILET      SINK
BUILT BY SELF-HELP:                                                      SHOWER
ENCLOSING WALLS AND WINDOWS, EXPANSIONS
SERVICE LEVEL                                        ... *   .:. . .
(CONDOMINIUM UNIT)
PLOT AREA = 42m2 PRIVATE AND                 *  *      ADJACENT UNIT
ABOUT15m 2OF COURT YARD                                       :
SHELTER AREA = 31.4m 2                         ~                                  OUASM-RVT
BUILT BY CONTRACTOR:                                                                   C      EARRD
AS (B) ABOVE                                  i:                           )
BUILT BY MUTUAL-HELP:                                                        0
AS (B) ABOVE                                       I
DOORS, WINDOWS
BUILT BY SELF-HELP:
INTERIOR PARTITIONS, FINISHES                           10.2m
SERVICE LEVEL                                                          17m
("FONDO" UNIT)
PLOT AREA = 102m 2
SHELTER AREA = 43m2
BUILT BY CONTRACTOR:                                                                                 u
COMPLETE UNIT                             E
ALL INFRASTRUCTURE                                        lQ
BUILT BY MUTUAL-HELP:
NONE                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
BUILT BY SELF-HELP:
INTERIOR FINISHES OR EXPANSIONS
KEY FOR UTILITY LINES AND FIXTURES
World Bank-17005






ANNA 5
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
LAND ACQUISITION
Metropolitan San Salvador
Background
1.        Acquisition of suitable land in metropolitan San Salvador has
been the major problem encountered under the first serviced site project.
Secondary cities have not presented land acquisition difficulties as they
have few development constraints. Each site proposed for development
requires:
(a)   acceptable topography and subsoil conditions;
(b)   consent of landower to sell at a feasible price for low-cost
development;
(c)   water availability (agreement by ANDA to provide water to the
site within the prescribed implementation timetable);
(d) zoning and development approval by DUA; and
(e)   development approval by the "Decree 22" Commission (responsible
for preserving the recharge area for the San Salvador aquifer
and Zona Norte region).
2.        Metropolitan San Salvador's topography and natural growth patterns
impose constraints as to the availability of developable land. Land west of
the city center is of prime industrial use; the east is composed of high-
income residential areas and coffee plantations. Land values in this area
(including the satellite city of Santa Tecla) are higher than other areas of
metropolitan San Salvador. Development of the city to the south is limited
by severe topographic conditions. Most popular (extralegal) housing develop-
ment has been to the north along the highway to Apopa, a satellite town.
Lands to the northwest are on the slope of the San Salvador volcano and fall
within an ecological reserve sone established under Decree 22 (see Map12511).
3.        An additional constraint is the limited availability of larger
tracts of developable land in the metropolitan area. Land required for a
1,000 unit project site is about 10.5 ha of net, useable land--for an effi-
cient layout under optimum topographic conditions. Economies of scale can
best be achieved in projects of from 500--1,500 units. Tracts of this size
are virtually unavailable close to the city center, employment sources,
transportation networks or existing trunk infrastructure. Some smaller
parcels of land for projects of about 75 - 150 units are available, but at
higher selling prices or with topographic/infrastructure problems.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        Within metropolitan San Salvador four areas have development
potential for larger project sites:
(a)   Soyapango to the north-east of the city center;
(b)   Apopa, north, north-west;
(c)   Santa Tecla, west; and
(d)   Zapotitan, west of Santa Teclap about 25 km from the city
center (see Map 12511).
ProJect Sites
5.        The 5,700 units proposed for the metropolitan area under the second
project will require about 60 ha. Another 40 ha are needed for the 3,500 units
remaining under the first project, totaling 100 ha. Three major areas within
San Salvador have been identified as prime development zones: (i) the vicinity
of the FSVM's existing serviced site project (El Pepeto) in Soyapango; (ii) the
Apopa area; and (iii) lands between San Salvador and Santa Tecla. These sites
were selected in accordance with the following criteria: proximity to employ-
ment and trunk infrastructure., suitable topographic characteristics, soil and
subsoil conditions, access, water availability, feasibility of acquisition and
cost.
6.        The first area--Soyapango--is aituated about 8 km from the city
center and 2 km from the Soyapango township center. A new industrial free
zone (San Bartolo) 2 km away is currently under development, and has
three or four major industries already established. Soyapango is parti-
cularly suited to the project as it is the major industrial zone for the
city. The-township serves as major retail market for the whole north-east
quadrant of the city and offers residents major urban services such as
hospitals, clinics, primary/secondary schools, recreational activities,
extensive public transportation and a concentration of informal commercial/
industrial activities that would provide appropriate employment opportunities.
The unurbanized land in the area is presently cultivated in sugar cane
(an additional employment source). These lands are topographically the best
suited to economical urbanization in the metropolitan area. Also indicative
of the area's suitability for low-income residential development is the pro-
liferation of extra-legal subdivisions (unserviced plots sold or rented by
small-scale private developers/speculators). These subdivisions are targeted
to essentially the same income groups as the project. Water supply is currently
poor-pressures are quite low--but expected to improve when the Guluchapa II
supply system comes into operation in December 1976 (see Annex 6) and to be
finally resolved with the completion of Zona Norte Stage I in early 1978.
The major obstacle to development in this vicinity is the dominance of
land ownership by essentially one individual who has been unwilling to sell.
The history of FSVM's several unsuccessful negotiations with this owner
date back to 197h.



ANNEX 5
Pago 3
7.        The Government, through its housing agency, IVU, has agreed to
take over acquisition arrangements in the Soyapango area. IVU is presently
negotiating with the landowner (the same individual from which IVU purchased
land for the San Bartolo Industrial Free Zone). In the event that these
efforts fail, IVU would expropriate sufficient land in Soyapango for sites
to be developed under both the first and second project. FSVM has prepared
a detailed regional development plan identifying about 350 ha of developable
land that encompasses the projected east-west by-pass highway for the city.
The plan was presented to IVU in September 1976. FSVM has earmarked 66 ha
within the area for development of sites under both projects. IVU has
agreed to obtain the land by complusory acquisition if necessary, after
final negotiation efforts with the owner.
8.        Apopa, the second area under consideration, is located about 3.5
miles north of the city center on a major north/south highway along which
are situated a number of large industrial developments. Most of the city's
uncontrolled residential growth--illegal subdivisions-has occured along
this axis. The satellite city of Apopa (population approximately 20,000)
is about 15 km from San Salvador. The extensive and inexpensive (US$0.16)
bus service has made Apopa's extralega subdivisions bedroom communities
for the city. Unauthorized land in the Apopa area is currently cultivated--
primarily in sugar cane. A large recently modernized sugar mill and re-
finary in the area provide employment to large numbers of unskilled workers.
The highway from San Salvador to Apopa has generated many small and large-
scale industries, most of which rely on the availability of unskilled labor-
textile mills, a large brick and block factory, food processing plants, etc.
9.        FSVM has made extensive surveys and studies of available land with-
in the Apopa area and along the Apopa-San Salvador highway. Potential sites
evaluated along the Apopa highway (Troncal del Norte) are small (h-8 ha)
with pronounced topographic constraints. Land values along the Troncal del
Norte are higher due to the growth of industry over the last 5-8 years.
Lands evaluated north-east of the Apopa township are also smaller tracts
and have access and water supply limitations. The most desirable lands
are located about 3 km east of the Apopa township center, what is now part
of a large sugar cane plantation (El Angel), owned by a consortium of five
individuals. Unlike Soyapango, the owners are willing to sell and have
allowed the FSVM to select their preferred 100 mansanas (70 ha) from the
total area. The asking price of ¢4 per v2 is quite reasonable for land
so close to the Apopa/San Salvador development corridor. Proximity to the
Apopa township, to employment, and to good transportation links is excellent.
The site has minor access problems which would be resolved by provision of
an access road as part of the required trunk infrastructure. The necessary
right-of-way would be purchased as part of the site. The land selected
for project development is adjacent to the Apopa-Scandia water main and
water is expected to be available by the time required (Annex 6 and Map 12511).



ANNEX 5
Page 4
10.       The only acquisition problem with the Apopa (El Angel) site
is a lack of development approval by the "Decree 22" Commission, responsible
for preserving the recharge area of the San Salvador aquifer. Commission
membership includes representatives of the Ministries of Planning, Agriculture,
Public Works (including DUA), and ANDA, the water authority. Development
of the 70 ha identified by FSVM would not be detrimental from a technical
standpoint. The proposed site contributes very little to the aquifer due
to the nature of the soil conditions (Annex 6) and to its positioning on
the eastern slope of the San Salvador volcano. The more gentle northern
and western slopes constitute the primary recharge areas, -with the eastern
and southern slopes contributing to a much lesser extent. The FSVM
approached the Commission's technical representatives in January 1976
for authority to develop the El Angel site.  Permission was refused, not
for technical objections, but on the grounds that the Commission is re-
luctant to establish any precedents for adjusting the original boundary.
Illegal development, however, is rapidly filling the area surrounding the
El Angel plantation, making eventual urbanization--whether planned or not-
-a certainty. While the Commission had no substantive technical objection
to urbanizing the El Angel site, the working level technical staff in
attendance felt a higher-level decision was required to redefine the
Decree 22 boundary. The Ministry of Planning has agreed to convene the
Commission at a higher administrative level to reconsider the question.
11.       The third potential area lies in the zone between metropolitan
San Salvador and Santa Tecla.  Access to essential services, employment
and transportation is excellent. One site of 500 units has already been
built there by the FSVM in 1972.  Santa Tecla will be the first to receive
water under the Zona Norte scheme and also has a number of private wells
currently operating.  This area, however, is less desirable than either of
the first two as it is affected, in part, by both Decree ?2 restrictions
and ownership by essentially one family which-appears unwilling to sell
at a feasible price for low-cost development. zLand values-are considerably
higher in this area as it has become a prime high-income residential and
commercial growth pole. Current land prices are about 030-40 per v2 (about
US$17-23 per m2). Expropriation would probably be required. If sufficient
land can be obtained in the Soy4pngo and Apopa areas, further negotiations
for potential sites in this vicinity will not be considered.
Alternative Sites
12.       A thorough analysis of potential sites in the metropolitan area
preceded selection of the three sites described above for the second project.
The major disadvantages of these rejected lands were that they were of two
types: (a) small, dispersed sites capable of between 100-200 units each,
or (b) areas on the fringe of the metropolitan zone. The first would require
acquisition of perhaps 35-50 individual tracts of land, involving negotiations
with numerous landowners. FSVM manpower requirements and administrative
costs in all departments would consequently escalate considerably through
the design, tendering, construction supervision, social work, finance and
collections phases. Moreover provision of adequate trunk infrastructure
and social services to so many locations (many of which would be positioned



ANNEX 5
Page 5
some distance from existing services) would be virtually impossible. The
increased number of projects to be served would no doubt strain relations
between FSVM and other agencies providing services and increase the demands
on the interagency Coordinating Committee.
13.       A number of somewhat larger sites bordering metropolitan San Salvador
were also analyzed although proximity to adequate employment, transport, ex-
isting trunk infrastruct-ure and social services was quite poor for most.
These areas were briefly as follows:
(a)   Zapotitan:  an area of about 20 km (12 miles) west of San Salvador
also known as La Cuchilla, located on the new highway. The site
also falls within the Decree 22 restricted area since it con-
stitutes a catchment area for runoff from the volcano. Ground-
waters in this region are used for agricultural purposes and
urbanization approval by the Committee for this area would not
be easily obtained;
(b) New airport vicinity: located about 20-25 km (12-16 miles) from
the city. Although the highway is currently under construction
the airport itself is only in the design stage, it is difficult
at the present time to assess a likely timetable and degree of
demand for additional shelter units, availability of services or
employment, and land values in the area;
(c)   Northeast Apopa:  approximately 3 sites of 400 units each and one
larger area of 1,400 units are available further to the north of
Apopa. The location is not as desirable as El Angel, and access
is presently poor. A bridge would be required in order to open
the area and provide a water supply line into Apopa; the area is
not served by public transportation; and
(d)  East of present airport:  another option lies about 5 km (3 miles)
due east of the airport (already 7 km or 4 miles from the city
center). No water supply is currently available in this area and
its lack constitutes a major drawback. Wells would probably be
required, though a detailed hydrogeological assessment of well
feasibility has not yet been made. Land prices are acceptable,
and bus service is adequate as the site is adjacent to a small
town, and in the general vicinity of the new San Bartolo industrial
free zone, but the land tenure pattern in the area is of hundreds
of small tracts of cultivated land. Acquisition of large parcels
for project development would be difficult and time consuming.
Although each of the above zones was rejected for development under the second
project in preference to the Soyapango, Apopa and Santa Tecla areas which
present fewer problems, they would remain as contingency possibilities. Some
might be reassessed in the event of unforeseen major difficulties with the
planned sites.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Expropriation Procedures
14.       The time required for expropriation is estimated by IVU to be
about 3 months once final negotiations are terminated with the landowner.
Publication in the official gazette of Government intention to acquire
the site constitutes the critical step for FSVM since after this date
technical staff may enter upon the land for purposes of topographic
survey and detailed design, initiating the first phase of development.
Issuance of property rights to households does not take place for another
15 months. Title to the land would be through transference of a bill
of sale, prior to initiation of civil works within the site. This should
not prove difficult to obtain within the necessary time period.
April 6, 1977



ANNEX 6
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
WATER SUPPLY
SAN SALVADOR METROPOLITAN AM
Current Status
1.        The San Salvador Metropolitan Area suffers from a critical
water supply situation. At the present time about 2.4 m3/sec are supplied
to metropolitan San Salvador. Half of this volume originates from springs,
and half from wells drawing from an aquifer underlying the western and
central parts of the metropolitan area. A well system has been developed
close to the town of Apopa located 10 km to the north. The supply con-
sists of six wells with pumping and transmission facilities to Scandia,
where there is a corm,etion to the metropolitan system. This Apopa-Scandia
scheme supplies 0.3 a /sec of the 2.4 total. Nevertheless, water shortages
pasists, particularly in the dry season and rationing is still imposed in
parts of the city, leaving manjy areas without water at certain times of the
cay. The aquifer is overdrawn, evidenced by a decline of the water table
at the rate of approximately one meter per year. Spring discharge is also
reported to be declining. Daring recent years, various engineering
studies have been made to analyze the situation and propose solutions lo
the problem (see Chart 1). As a result, several supply programs have been
initiated to relieve the shortage.
A. Programs for Improving the Supply Situation
2.        ANDA presently has two construction programs under way; and is
considering two more:
(a)      Guluchapa I and II;
(b)      nlopango;
(c)      Zona Norte; and
(d)      Storm water runoff conservation.
Realization of these programs has a very direct bearing on the improvement
of the water supply situation in metropolitan San Salvador, and thus on the
likelihood of obtaining the supplies needed for the new communities to be
developed under the Second Urban Project.
(a)      The Guluchapa Pro.Ject
3.        Gulachapa is designed to alleviate water shortages in the eastern
part of the metropolitan area. The principal source is an aquifer located in



ANNEX 6
Page 2
the valley of Rio Guluchapa, on the western shore of Lake Ilopango. A
hydrogeological study of the basin indicated that it should yield around
500 liters/sec. from wells, assuming that this rate would bring about in-
duced infiltration from streams.
4.        When well drilling started in 1972, difficulties were encountered
due to the presence of a large amount of fine sand in the aquifer and a new
well design had to be developed. By obtaining an additional 120 1/sec.
from streams (Rio Cuay) it should be possible to eventually attain the
target of 520 1/sec. A feasibility study on the Rio Cuay proposal was to
be ready by November 1976.
5.        Groundwater in this area contains iron and manganese and requires
treaitment for the removal of those elements.  Early in 1972, ANDA began work
on the construction of a treatment plant designed to produce 150 1/sec. A
second phase treatment plant, designed to provide 250 1/sec. is now approach-
ing completion, and is expected to become operative in October 1976. The
real volume of additional water, however, is unlikely to be more than another
100 1/sec. in the short term due to the well capacity of 300 1/sec.
6.        For the most part, the additional water that will become available
from Guluchapa II has been committed to new urbanization projects including one
site under the first Bank loan. If the full 250 1/sec. can eventually be pro-
duced, there may be a slight marginal surplus. Some doubts persist about the
feasibility of obtaining additional water, however, and ANDA is reluctant to
undertake commitments to potential new users until the full capacity of the
scheme has been confirmed. Neither the latter 3,000 units under the first pro-
ject nor any to be developed under the second have firm commitnents from ANDA at
this stage with respect to water availability in the Soyapango area, since such
assurances can be obtained only upon submission of detailed design and engineering
plans. In any event, Guluchapa II will clearly not offer an adequate water
source for all of the units proposed for development in the Soyapango area.
(b)   Lake Ilopango
7.        Water from Lake Ilopango cannot be directly used in any quantity
because of its excessive boron and arsenic content. According to a survey
made by Wallace Evans and Partners (March 1974) the measured mean boron
concentration fluctuates between 8.9 mg/l and 10.4 mg/l over a one-year
period. According to information obtained from ANDA the arsenic content
amounts to 0.85 ppm.
8.        No treatment process appears to be available at the present time
for the removal of boron from water. A study was recently awarded to Battelle
Northwest by the Bank for a literature search and bench scale tests for
removal of both arsenic and boron. The report should be ready by early 1977.
Treatment methods exist for the reduction of the arsenic content, but are
quite expensive.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
9.        Much will depend, however, on the standards ultimately adopted by
ANDA for the permissible boron content of the water supplied to the metro-
politan area. On this issue, there seems to be no consensus to date. The
Wallace Evans and Partners report states that boron concentrations like
thos3found in Lake nlopazgo water would be acceptable for human consumption,
but concentrations in excess of 0.5mug/ would have an injurious effect on
certain plants. Indications are that water with a boron concentration of
3.5 mg/l supplied to parts of San Salvador ha not produced deleterious
effects on existing plant life to date. Lake nopango water might be used
in the industrial zone near the airport for certain purposes, such as cooling,
washing, eact. This, however, would requid  a separate supply system which
would be costly to build.
10.       In view of this situation, ANDA proposes only a certain admixture
of Lake nlopango water to the water produced in the Guluchapa are. Mixing
130 to 300 1/sec of Lake nIopango water to the 400 1/sec. of water produced
in Guluchapa I and II--which contains about 0.5 mg/l of boron--would bring
the boron content to 2.5 to 4.5 mg/l and the available volume would increase
to between 530 and eventually 820 1/sec. if the Rio Cuay additions beoome
available.
(c)   The Zona Norte Project
11.       A major scheme for the develcpment of ground- and surface water
located along the northern slopes of the San Salvador volcano is currently
under construction by ANDA.  The estimated groundwater potential of this
zone is roughly 3 3/sec. (3,000 1/sec.). When fully implemented, the
proposed scheme should satisfy demand until about 1988, assuming that the
Gulochapa and nlopango projects neasure up to expectations. Zona Norte
consists of two phases, each providing 1.6 m3/sec.
12.       Phase I: The initial phase is further broken into an early and a
final stage. The early stage consists of seven wells in the Nejapa-Mapilapa
area, a 48-inch diameter transmission main tothe western part of San Salvador
and the necessary pumps, storage tanks and power lines. When completed, the
expected delivery to the metropolitan area will be 0.4 m3/sec. While this
flow will initially benefit the western part of the metropolitan area and
Santa Tecla, interlinkages being built into the system as part of the project
will allow water to be diverted from one section of the city to another.
Construction of the seven wells is nearing completion. Results appear
satisfactory with an average capacity of between 45-70 1/sec. reported to
be feasible.



ANNEx 6
Page 4
13.       The construction schedule for Phase I is presented in Chart 3.
Tendering for most of the components of the early stage is currently under-
way. Minimum construction time is one year; less optimistic estimates place
completion at one and a half years.
14.       The later stage of Phase I involves the diversion of the flow from
various springs (La Toma, San Lorenzo, Castana, Platanillos) into the Zona
Norte system. A detailed construction schedule for this stage of Zona Norte
I is now in preparation. A conservative estimate of the completion of the
second stage is placed at mid-1979. Once Zona Norte Phase I becomes operative,
it is intended to reduce abstractions from the overexploited San Salvador
aquifer by 0.7 m3/sec. so that the net addition to the metropolitan supply
will be only 0.9 m3/sec.
15.       Phase II:  The second phase of Zona Norte is intended to add another
1.6 m3/sec. bringing the total capacity of the project to 3.2 m3/sec. Con-
struction is intended to start when Phase I has reached about 60% completion.
Financing is to be sought from the Inter-American Development Bank.
(d)   Storm Water Runoff Conservation
16.       Storm water runoff in the San Salvador metropolitan region may be
as much as 70% of the total rainfall on the steep slopes of the volcano, and
somewhat less on the more gentle slopes of the hills south of San Salvador.
The high rainfall produces short-duration, high-discharge floods. ANDA has
been investigating the feasibility of harnessing this runoff in surface re-
servoirs.  Conditions, however, do not appear to be favorable for major ex-
ploitation of this resource. Small experimental dams constructed in the past
were rapidly filled up with sediments, and water from them showed a high con-
tent of organic material.
17.       Sites for sizeable surface reservoirs are almost non-existent due
to the difficult terrain. It would therefore appear that interception and
storage of storm water runoff cannot be expected to make a major contribution
to the water supply of San Salvador, with the possible exception of very
small-scale local contributions in the hill country south of the metropolitan
area.
Water Quality and Control
18.       Most of San Salvador's supply is groundwater, in part pumped from
wells, and in part obtained from springs.  The relatively great depth of the
water table (ranging from 120-600 feet) and the distribution of previous
strata of fine-grained pumice outcropping over the greater part of the city's
terrain protect the aquifer efficiently against pollution from wastes. As a
result, the water supplied to the city distribution system is of excellent
purity. As a protective measure, all water is chlorinated.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
B. Contingency Plan for Water Supply in Sites
under the Second Urban Project
19.       In view of the difficult water supply situation, particularly in
the Soyapango area where a significant number of units are to be developed
under the second project, contingency plans have been prepared to provide
water in the event of unforeseen slippages in the supply schemes discussed
in the preceding section.
Soyapango Area
20.       Demand and possible sources:  In the Soyapango area, another 3,500
units will be built under the first loan and 1,200 under the second by mid-
1979 and an additional 1,500 units during 1980.
21.       In the eastern part of the city, ANDA  is developing additional
supplies in Guluchapa and nlopango (see paras 3-10). However, as noted in
the preceding section, the possibility of extensive use of Lake Ilopango
water is limited due to the high boron and arsenic content and the quantities
likely to become available appear to be committed to existing developments.
The Guluchapa/Ilopango program is therefore unlikely to supply the volumes
required for the new housing projects in this area. Linkages allowing use of
Zona Norte Stage I water may not be completed in time for these sites.
22.       The minimum water requirements for families in FSVM sites is
calculated at 60 lcd. Taking an average of six persons per unit, the demand
in the Soyapango area would therefore be:
Water Requirement
Additional               @ 60 lcd        @100 lcd
Date                Units        Total      Minimum        Full Supply
by mid-1979           4,700        4,700     19.6 1/sec        32.6 1/sec
by mid-1980              500       5,200     21.6 1/sec      36.1 1/sec
23.       Groundwater can be--and has been--obtained from wells in this aretc
The yield that can be conservatively expected is between 8-12 1/sec per well.
Water obtained from some of the wells requires aeration to remove iron and
manganese, while in others only chlorination is required. Hydrogeological
conditions in this area--and practically in all areas east of the Acelhuate
River--are such that the exploitation of groundwater will not influence in
any way the main aquifer of the San Salvador metropolitan area, located west
of the river.
24.       It will be quite feasible to supply modest volumes of water from
wells in the Soyapango area to satisfy the requirements of the FSVM housing
projects. Water provided under the scheme would be a net addition to th'-
total volume available in the San Salvador metropolitan area, and would in
no way detract from water exploited elsewhere. ANDA considers this zone
unfavorable for groundwater exploitation solely due to the low capacity of the
wells and the probability that aeration treatment plants will be required
making major abstractions of groundwater costly because of the relatively
great number of low-yield wells required. The abstraction of small wells
for local use however is quite feasible.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
25.       Several wells have been developed in the Soyapango zone.  The
FSVM will undertake study of the feasibility of obtaining water from any
of these existing wells.
26.       Proposed well plan:  In view of the FSVM water requirements noted in
the preceding section, and assuming water will not be available from Guluchapa,
two wells will be required by mid-1979 to supply the 4,700 units being developed.
These wells should be spaced about 1 km apart. Assuming an around-the-clock
operation, storage will have to be provided because of fluctuations in the daily
demand curve. An elevated tank or reservoir with a 1 ,000 m3 capacity should be
satisfactory both for regulative storage and water distribution by gravitation.
If the water obtained from the wells requires aeration, this can be provided at
the well site or near the reservoir. In the latter case, the well pumps may
provide enough head to lift the water to the reservoir. Chlorination can be
effected at the well head or in conjunction with the aeration plant.
27.      Construction schedule:  The time required to bring two wells into
operation in the Soyapango area is about 17 months (see Chart 2).
Apopa Area
28.       Relationship between Zona Norte and Apopa water-supplY sYstems: The
Apopa-Scandia scheme is regarded by ANDA as an emergency measure. The 300 1/sec
of water produced by the six wells in this system is expensive.  ANDA intends,
therefore, to reduce the use of this system when cheaper water becomes available
from the Zona Norte project. Utilization of the water from the Apopa-Scandia
system will probably be necessary until the full capacity of Zona Norte Phase I
is attained in late 1979, when a surplus first appears.  It appears likely,
therefore, that additional water required in the Apopa area may have to be
obtained from new wells.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
29.       Demand and possible sources:  The contingency plan would need to
provide water as of the following dates and quantities:
Water Requirement
Additional               @ 60 lcd          @ 100 lcd
Date                 Units     Total        Minimum          Full Supply
by early 1980             2,000      2,000       8.3 l/sec        13.8 1/sec
by beginning 1981         2,000     4,000       16.6 1/sec        27.6 1/sec
In Apopa, as in Soyapango, the Acelhaute River constitutes a hydrogeologic
boundary. It is advisable to locate contingency plan wells south of the
boundary, closer to the actual sites proposed for development. In view of
the modest amounts of groundwater required, the wells pose no threat to
the hydrogeological balance in the area.  As a matter of precaution, it is
advisable to avoid locating boreholes close to contaminated rivers. Prior
to drilling, a study of precise conditions in the area will be made to
identify the exact location of the intended wells.
30.       Plan for contingency supply system:  In view of the anticipated
yield in this area of 45-70 1/sec per well, one well should be adequate.
A standby appears necessary in view of the probable ease of purchasing
limited quantities of water on an emergency basis from nearby private wells
in the event of a breakdown. The system would, therefore, consist of a
single well, reservoir for flow regulation and a treatment installation.
31.       Construction schedule:  From the initiation of planning and design
the well should require about 15 months as shown in Chart 2. The necessity
of a treatment plant will have to be determined on the basis of the water
analysis from the well test.
C. Water Rates and Charges
32.       The present progressive system of water rates and charges was
introduced in August 1974. A recent increment of 8% was added to consumer
bills in August 1976. A schedule of rate increases has been agreed as
part of ANDA's Zona Norte scheme financed by BID.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Metropolitan San Salvador
33.      Within the metropolitan area the following different rates and
charges are applied&
(a) Water Consumption: For monthly volumes the following rates are
applied:
Any volume up to 15 a3    ........ 01.95
Additional up to 30 a3  ......?..  00.13
n   n       60 m        .....  o  00.17
n  90 m3  00.00.* *  00.19
nn120 m3 ...... ..  90.21
(Additional aounots to 240 a3 are charged at 00.02
increase per 30 a .)
Rates to comunal water fountsins are paid by Consumer
U.rions in each area. Each union is regarded as a single
consumer and the above rate structure is applied in
principle. In practice, however, the agency has applied
a 35% reduction to bills under this category.
(b) Sverage  Maintenance and3operation of the sewer system
is ¢harged at 0 0.03 per a of water consumed.
(c) Development of Water Supply Systems: Any organization
or individual undertaking an urbanization scheme pays
01 for each n2 of urbanized land exclusive of roads,
sidewalks and parks payable at the date of infra-
structure acceptance by ANDA to cover costs incurred
in developaent and distribution of water to the pro-
Ject and in removal of waste water. ANDA has a reduced
charge of 50 centavos per m   for public housing pro-
jects. As a private agency, hower, FSVM pays the
normal rate of 01.
(d) Approval of Plans/Testing:
Approval: Plans for water distribution and sewerage
systems in the urbanization project must be sub itted
to ANDA for approval at a charge of 00.02 per a of
the total area.



ANNEx 6
Testing: Tests of the water distribution 2and sewerage
system are conducted by ANDA; 00.02 per m of the total
area is charged.
(e) Connections: Connection charges are 0175 to cover the
cost of the installed water meter. This will be paid
to ANDA by FSVM and included in the 20-year mortgage.
(f) Right-of-Way: Individual homeowners are charged 05 for
right-of-way.
(g) Outside the metropolitan San Salvador area charges for house-
hold water consumption are as shown below; all other charges
are the same.
San Miguel-and Santa Ana: Fcrany monthly volume consumed
up to 30 m', the consumer is billed with 03. Volumes in
excess of this are charged:
For each m3 from 30 to 60 m3 /month: 00.13
For each m from 61 to 90 m3 /month: 00.15
(For each m3 additional another 00.2 i added up to 240 m3s
thereafter for each 40 m) additional another 00.2 is added
to 420 m3 /month.  Above this a flat charge of 00.32 is made
for any additional m3).
April 6, 1977



ANNEX 6
Chart 1
EL SALVADOR
Secand Urban Development Project
WATER SUPPLY PROGRAMS
PROPOSED AND UNDER CONSTRUCTION
9- PROBRBLE
1000   DEMANo
7          /  /    ~~~OR6INA9RL
t                                 1 /*W~~~~~~~~~~Z1ATER DEM9AND
7~~~~~~~
Iem0, ____~~~~~~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~__ Ir - -  -  ___-_-________
5.
ZONA NORTE IL
4! 1 < , X7~~~~-4-                                      0.7-*- 
4
T t l sy . 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L2_  
.ZONA NORTE I
3  T+PWK   ------r                                   0.40     Staei
025      II GULUCHAPA
.W   -2  --ri                                         - I GuLUCHAPA
tz __/ _ _ += = _ . _ . _. . . -~~~~~APOPA SCANDIA
i }   t.                             _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.7* itFtx
______  8_ _0____._____ ______ ____________ ____                      APP NCNI
C_ rrent_  opea 6    t8 Iv  -                                 -
19ro       1975        MO          1983        l so       1995        2000
YEAR
**Currently operative.                  *THE- SAN SALVADOR AQUIFER IS OVERDRAWN
BY 0.7 M3/Sec.
THE SAFE YIELD IS ESTIMATED AT 1.301/Sec.



ANNEX 6
Chart 2
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
CONTINGENCY PLAN FOR
WELL DEVELOPMENT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Year:
Month:  it 2 3141567 879  OII123 14i5161171181i9
I.  Soyapango Area
Phase I
Planning, design
and ANDA approval              DE DC
Preparation
Tender documents,
bidding and award
of contract
Well Drilling/Testing
first
second
third
Reservoir                                     MM
Pipe Connections                              x x  x
Treatment Plant                                            Xx
Testing by APIDA                                               X x:
Total: 17 months
TI. Apora Aren
Planning, design
and ANDA approval           XD XD
Preparation
Tender documents                  x) r xx
bidding and award
of contract
Well Drilling/Testing                        a cx
Reservoir                                    Kx
Pipe Connections                             a cx rx Cx
Treatment Plant                                  : cx a   x
Testing by ANDA
Total:  15 months






ZONA NORTE - PHASE I
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDUS.E
El Salvador ANDA
Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo                                                                                                                            N, -
Loan No 426/5P-ES                                                                                                                                             Date 30 Apri 1976
1976                                           191" .                                          976
Perforation andAP, JM.zo     JUI1g  1 Cor I,    o1ie-ID,, JanrFPP|Mn, nAPI    Fn g     o       Ja-n                    AA IA.n | n.p .e, J,Pe
A IPerfoation and                                                                                          *Stage 1 Complnlon                         *Stage 2 Completion
Proofing of Wells                       _.n   c-
Civil Works - Wells
1 B                      _                          ,,..- I|||,| I,||tttttttttttttttt ,,,,,i_tt,,,,
and Springs
Supply and                                                                              1 St                  2nd
Stage                Stage
2A-2B  Installation of            _m,. mmmu
Aduction Lines
Civil Works -
3A_m,,m,m
Treatmenit Plant
Access Road -
Treatment Plant
Design/Construction
of Tanks
Supply & Installation
of Distribution Lines
6A    Electrical Works          .                      ugmimp ..._
Supply Installation
1st Stage              2nd Stage
7A    and Proofingmm mm-...-
of Pumps in Stations
Supply Installation                          _                               _ i m m.'.v'-|
78   and Proofing of
Pumps in Wells
Design, Supply &
Installation of                                                                                                        Installation
8A                              _E . .. -.r                                                                                              -  _ttttttttttt     
Equipment-Treatment
Plant
IIPublicat,on          GMeMecOit,o                DNegciuloi            E     Del,very Time
and Conatractng
mBidding            i Prequa ficatron       9t   Mob,a-rorn         inExecution ANDA
World Bank- 16598






ANNEX 7
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
PILDT UPGRADING PROGRAM
Background
1.        Recent census data 1/ for Metropolitan San Salvador shows that about
13.6% of its population live in "tugurios" (squatter settlements) and earn
less than 0 200 (US$80) monthly per household. Another 62.8% of the city's
inhabitants earn less than 0300 (US$120) monthly per household in 'mesones"
(one-story, in-town tenements) and "colonias ilegales" (extra-legal sub-
divisions). These unauthorized settlements represent over 76% of the existing
housing stock, most without tenure or services. As a complement to the
develvpment of new serviced site areas the upgrading program will provide
secure tenure, physical improvements for basic infrastructure and services,
and construction materials loans to residents of a pilot settlement to inprove
their community and dwellings by means of mutual-help and self-help.
Principles for Upgrading Unauthorized Settlements
2.        The pilot imprwvement scheme reflects the following general principles:
(a) servicing Standards based on phased improvement of present
services or introduction of basic-generally shared--facilities;
(b) detailed design standards determined in consultation with
the affected population which reflect community priorities
and capacity to pay;
(c) provision of secure tenure;
(d) minimal resettlement with families displaced by installation of
essential services to be relocated in areas adjscent to the
community wherever feasible; and
(e) full costs of upgrading including land, infrastructure, washing
areas, construction loans, administration and interim interest will
be recovered from residents. Costs of work undertaken should be
affordable to about 851 of the community. A risk reserve will be
established sufficient to cover anticipated defaults.
1/ "Censo Nacional de 1971: ITT Cpnso de Vivienda y TV de Poblacion,"
Direccion General de Estadistica y Censos (the latest Census for
El Salvador) and "Hacia Una Political Urbana F1 Legado del Estado
Salvadoreno: 1950-1975t," A. Harth.



ANNEX 7
Pilot Area Description
3.        The pilot project--a squatter area, "r92 de Abril" (22 of April) was
selected from a short-list of twenty cor,rmnit.ies in San Salvador.  Each was
evaluated on the basis of targeted income groups, land tenure, minimum relocation,
existing city development plans, and feasibility of economically providing
infrastructure and services.  The  settleme t contains about 800 families oi
4,800 people.
4.        Location:  The Settlement i- well located near the major access road
to the city along which is situated the main industrial zone (Map   ).  Public
transportation to the city center costs /0.10 (US$o.o0) and takes 10 minutes,
although most residents choose the 30-m-inute tarz,  Both formal and informal
job opportunities are readily available. Minimal water service is currently
available in the community, though residents must walk a considerable distance
to the two communal taps (one per L1a0o families). An existing Community
Organization will facilitate local oonsultations and final decisions regarding
the type and location of improvements.  All the preceding factors contributed
to the selection of this particular  aosir:n     a      pilot area.
5.        Existing conditions:  The S+ttle-ent- is on municipal land-adjacent to
the cityts sanitary land fill deposit which  s being phased out and will be
sealed by early 1977.  The commun t- h        di.eidcd the Settlement in three
zones corresponding to the phases cf its oevelopment and the nature of the
sitets topography (Map      , and photographs).  Although most of the site
has been built on steep slopes, the houses are well situated and adapted; vege-
tation helps stabilize most erosion during the seasonal rains.   Storm water
run-off is not channelized except for about 500 m in the lowest zone. The
Settlement is divided by a railroad line,;rail traffic volume is low--about two
trains pass through the community per doy7  and does not represent a hazard
to residents.
Basic data for the Settlement+
- area of municipal lends                     13.9" ha
- residential area (useaible):                11.72 ha
- area of railroad easement:                   0.94 ha
- population density (est.),                    380 persons/ha
- unit density (est.):                           63 units/ha
- estimated population:                       4,800 persons
- average monthly household inco,me:       4160.00 (US$64.00)
6.        Socio-economic characterisso  d,ureliiniasry Socio-economic survey
was conducted within the communitv. The dat>] obtained shows that the commun-
ity is typical of the squatter population of San Sslvador.  Family incomes
(Table 1) are low--90  of households h.ve monthly incomes below 0200 (US$8O);
70 earn between ¢80 and 0200.
7.        Origins of the settlement:  About 4O00 C) pmilles invaded this land
April 22, 1971.  The families occupied the. lowest and most level section.
Two years later, a second invasion settled on steeper terrain in the souf,h
The Settlement now has three zones or neighborhood areas, each with repre-
sentatives in the Community Organization. Informal recognition was extended



ANNEX 7
Page 3
to the community after the Municipality granted their petitions for minimal
services and infrastructure in 1973 The Settlement was provided with a
2 inch water line and public lighting. The community built 3 metered standpipes
(of which 2 now function) and has volunteer distribution overseers to register
family consumption and collect payments. Water costs are discussed in Annex 6.
8.        In addition, the Community Organization has designed and built by
mutual-help a three-classroom school, a community center and a clinic; and
with assistance from FOCCO, improved the access street and built a sports
field. The Community Organization controls the influx of new settlers in the
area.
Proposed Improvements and Design Standards
9.        The preliminary survey of the community identified the following
as priority improvement items:
- secure tenure
- general improvement of environmental hygiene
- employment
- basic services and facilities
- improved access street, footpaths, water supply and stabilization
of topography
- improvement and/or enlargement of dwellings
10.       The proposed  investment program was designed to meet these expressed
priorities.  Secure tenure will be provided along with the following services:
Infrastructure
(a)  Water supply/washing areas: a new 4 inch and 2 inch water pipe
network; 5 additional standpipes with meters located throughout
the community; communal washing areas with 48 showers and 32
laundry sinks and two fire hydrants will be installed to improve
supply and distribution; reducing the distance and time required
for fetching water. Design standards include:
7 standpipes         =    1 per 115 families
28 spigots            =    1 per 29 families
48 showers            =    1 per 100 persons
32 laundry sinks      =    1 per 14 families
(b)  Access roads/footpaths/earthworks:  paving of 925 m of the major
access road, about 3,000 linear meters of footpaths, steps and
stabilization of a few steep gradients in the area to facilitate
access and reduce erosion. Footpaths will include concrete-lined
surface drainage canals. Design standards include:
- carriageway for vehicular access street: 6 m
- surfacing: paving block and river stone
- walkways: 2 a
- surfacing: 1 m - 1.5 m wide river stone set in concrete
and soil-cement and 0.40 m concrete-lined drainage canals.



ANNEX 7
Page h
(c) Storm drainage: improvement of 580 m of existing canal and
introduction of drainage along footpaths (as above); registers,
inverts, concrete pipe and outfalls; and
(d)  Stabilization of embankments:  about 1,400 linear meters of
simple masonry retaining walls and soil-cement protection.
Community Facilities
(a) Community/day-care center: construction and equipping of a
multi-purpose community center with a special section for
day-care use;
(b)  School renovation:  installation of sanitary facilities,
expansion and renovation of the existing primary school
staffed by the Ministry of Education, and provision of some
additional education equipment;
(c) Market: about 376 m2 of market area in a small civic plaza with
simple market stalls;
(d)  Sports fields:  improvement of the existing football field and
provision of simple equipment for a basketball court; and
(e) Green/productive areas: planting of fruit trees in community
zones will provide both green areas and additional community
income from sale of the fruit.
Employment Generation
Employment agency: establishment of an employment service within
the Community Associ2tion to assist residents in job placement/
training.
Provision of Secure Tenure
Secure tenure will be achievea through the purchase of the land
from the Municipality by the Community Association. Rental pur-
chase or sale agreements will be drawn up between the Community
Association and individual households, under which families may
secure ownership and use irights of a particular plot defined by
a survey and marking system to be administered by the Community
Association. Most homes are clearly demarcated by fences and
other property boundaries, making the task relatively simple.
The proposed system will eliminate the need for a costly and time-
consuming legal survey of each plot required for property registry
in El Salvador. In cases where relocation of a plot is necessary
for the upgrading program, new plots are provided for within the
project area (Map 12514).



UPGRROING 
TIPIERl IMPRUVEMENTS WILL INVOLVE PRYING WRLKWRY5,              ^          f 
5TURM ORRIMRE, RETRININO WRLL5 RND HOME IMPROVEME&TS 
luiP
..'l0






ANNEX 7
Page 6
Home Tmprovement
Molest amounts of building materials loans (from about g100
(US$4o)--4400 (US$160) per family and technical supervision for
self-help improvements to homes will be available to residents.
A contruction materials warehouse will be built, stocked and oper-
ated by FOCCO within the community. Individuals participating
in the construction materials credit program may draw materials
as needed from the on-site supply.
Pit Latrine Improvement Program
While waterborne sewerage will not be provided in view of the
high cost, difficulty of installation and limited payment capacity
of residents, a tranche of the construction materials loans may
be used for specially designed (intermediate) sanitation units.
Two optiQns are proposed on an experimental basis for the pilot
scheme. The first is a simple, inexpensive improvement of an
existing pit latrine. (Many plots have improvised Dit latrines.)
Each installation would be reviewed by Technical staff of TVU
to assure optimu and problem-free operation.  Pit shafts are
engineered for optimum absorption based on soil characteristics.
Each latrine would have rainwater chatchment and run-off protection,
cast concreta seat and floor and optional enclosures.  The second
proposal is a modified septic tank system. Four adjoining plots
would share an asbestos-cement septic tank (that are currently
being fabricated in El Salvador); up to four of these tanks would
drain to specially designed leaching (disbursal) fields.  Location
of these systems within the project is important and will be carefully
monitored by IVU technicians. In both cases, subsoil and aquifer
conditions are such that these solutions will not adversely affect
groundwater or storm water drainage. Continued use of this system
will not result in contamination of the Ssn Salvador acquifer in
view of the depth of the water table which averages over 100 m
in this area. Special technical staff of FOCCO will advise indivi-
duals and groups as to specific improved pit latrine installations.
Electricity and Public Lighting
The community is well served by CAESS (about 90% of dwellings have
metered service); street Ughting has recently been provided by the
municipality.  Additional service is op;ional and separate from
the upgrading program.
The community will maintain internal infrastructure and county facilities.
A refuse collection and maintenance program will be established under a
specialized secretariat. A volunteer refuse collection service would operate
in each of the three zones with collection points on the vehicular access
street (Map      ).  Routine and emergency maintenance would be coordinated
by the secretariat with volunteer and contracted labor.



ANNEX 7
Page 
Implementation Procedure
11.       TVU will prepare data, preliminary designs and costs for consul-
tation with the community (Map 12514). The Community Association will
participate in planning and assisting the social workers and technical staff
in organizing the mutual-help groups for implementation. Final proposals
and detailed engineering will be approved by the Bank.
12.       FOCCO will assist the present Community Organization in drafting
by-laws and in obtaining a legally recognized Charter. A model Community
Organization consiting of a Board of Directors and an Executive Committee
with representatives from each zone and nine secretariats has been proposed
(Chart WB 16621).  Under this structure, elected community representatives
will be responsible for speciAl tasks related to project implementation,
administration and maintenance. This arrangement will not only reduce TVU's
staff inputs during implementation, but will permit direct community involve-
ment in the upgrading process and most importantly, develop a long-term
mechanism for on-going improvement and maintenance.
13.       Installation of infrastructure and construction of facilities will
be by a combination of voluntary community labor and contracted labor. As
the amount of construction requires extensive labor and implementation time,
community labor commitments are limited to about 50%. Certain more complex
and time-consuming tasks are to be performed by contracted labor.  IVU will
sct as supervisor and will hire unemployed or underemployed community residents
at current construction wiages. Certain skilled labor may be hired from
outside the community as required. The breakdown of labor is as follows:
% Community           % Contracted
Task                          Mutual-help Labor           Labor
Paving of Footpaths                           70                   30
Steps                                        60                    0
Street Paving                                30                    70
Stabilization of Topography                  90                    10
Installation of Water Network
-- 4 inch pipe                     30                   70
-- 2 inch pipe                     S0                   g0
__ 1 inch pipe                     60                   h0
Water Points/Standpipes                      80                    20
Laundry Facilities                           30                    70
Storm Drainage
--major works                      20                   80
--minor works                      90                   10
School Remodeling                            20                    80
Community Center Construction                30                    70
Church Remodeling                            30                   70
Sports Field                                 70                   30



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Community Consultation
14.        IVU will develop final design and engineering proposals based on
close consultation with the community. Ultimate composition of the upgrading
plan will reflect the communities' priorities. IVU will prepare preliminary
designs and recommendations for the community. Simultaneously, social workers
will be preparing surveys of the socio-economic and physical characteristics
of the community as well as a basic organizational scheme for the Community
Association. In communities with existing representative organizations,
these will be evaluated and reinforced or expanded to cover the administrative
needs of the project and community. Careful and intensive social work is
required during these early stages of project preparation.
15.       When a preliminary plan has been prepared, a formal presentation
will be made to the community through the representative association.
Technical, legal, administrative and financial issues will be explained to
the association and community at special forums. A period of assessment
and feedback will enable community leaders to present TVU staff with
approvals or amendments to the preliminary design. Cost and implementation
details and implications will be reviewed jointly. Tn the event of a serious
lack of consensus as to the location, design, cost or other feature of a
given facility, that facility will be deleted from the program. IVU will then
develop detailed engineering, cost estimates, schedules and work plans.
Repayment
16.       Project beneficiaries will pay monthly charges (see Chapter V) for
land improvements and services to the Community Association Secretariat of
Accounts, Collections and Funds. Payments will be made to local Banks who
have a forwarding arrangement with IVU.  Water charges and monthly payments
of construction materials loans will be by separate accounts but-through
the same Secretariat. Collection and arrears problems will be hpndled by
the local Associationts Collections Secretariat.
April 6, 1977



Table 1
EL SALV>AIDOZ
Seconfd IJrbano DITrel,-opment. Project.
'Icnt.hly.  Household Inco-nes "122 de Abril" Communi.
(SarnmTle Survev of 100 Families, Aumst 197')
Income Colones (P) Percentat--e  ')
0 -  20                                           .5:3
21 -  l0                                         7.22
1 -                                               2.22
Fl    100                                        19.1l
101 - 130                                         12.73'
1 31 - O 1                                        2;C  '2 22
1;11 -2() :i1 0G
2(1    3 '0 0) r*1
301 - 3 0
1 - over                                          .6 o
1 0)0.00



ANNEX 7
Table 2
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
CASH FLOW
PILOT SQUATTER UPGRADING SCHEME (iVU)
(___U_Ss '000)
----------------Years---------------
1977  1978  1979  1980  1981       2  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
Sourcesa/                   1      2     3                      1983 7         9    10    11
IDA Credit                75    19
IBRD Loan                 75    19
GOES Grant               172    15
Household Paymentsb/
Development Charge             9   19    19    19    19    19    19    19    19    19
Collection Fee                 1    2      2     2      2     2      2     2      2     2
Risk Reserve                    2    4     4      4     4      4     4     4      4     4
Construction Loan              3    7      7     7      7     7      7     7     7      7
Total Sources:      322    68   32    32    32    32    32    32    32    32    32
Uses
Construction
(a)  Land Purchase       112
(b)  Infrastructure       93    23
(c)  Construction Loan   79    20
(d)  Administration       24     6
(e) Community
Facilities         14     4
Amortization of Debt
Bank Loane/                       6    8     8      8    14    13    13    12    11    11
IDA Credit                        1    2     2      2     7     7      7     7      7     7
Collection Charge!        _       1    2     2      2     2     2      2     2      2     2
Total Uses:         322    61   12    12    12    23    22    22    21    20    19
Cash Flow Balance
(Annual)               -      7   20    20    20       9    10    10    11    12    13
Cumulative Cash Flow      -       7   27    47    67    76    86    96   107   119   132
a/ Pilot project cost is $'W5, of which the Bank will provide $94 in IDA Credit and $94 in
Bank Funds and GOES$187. Disbursement in two tranches--80% in 1977 and 20% in 1978, and
Government disbursement against land.
b/ Loan repayment terms are: 6.4% interest rate, 20 years, no grace on investment of (a),
Tb), (c) and (d) totaling ¢258 for development and ¢99 for construction loans, plus collec-
tion fee of 1o, risk reserve 20% of basic development charge.  Assuming I year of payment
in 1978. All payments assume 17% default.
c/  Terms of 1BRD loan:  85% interest rate, 20 years, effective grace period of five years
on principal, IDA Credit: 20%, 20 years, grace five years on principal: GOES; grant.
d/ One-percent of amount collected (before risk reserve).



ANNEX 8
EL C-LVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
ECONOMIC jUSUTFICATION
Serviced Sites
1.        The economic rate of reti   or,n th   ore readily quantifiable serviced
site component of the project would be 18% and is based upon benefits calculated
on the basis of an imputed rental value for units similar to those being developed
under the project. Values reflect recent survey information contained in the
FSVM's Popular Housing Study (APril 1976). The return is based on the following
cost/benefit streams:
Item                Years  1     2      3                  6     7-29  30
(US$'000)
Project Costs-I
Land4 i                 /    1,963  1,056
On-site Infrastructure-,       371   1,310 1,310   749
Core Units
Contractor/Water Meter        220  1,322 1,763 1,104
Mutual-help Materials          86    518   692   433
Mutual-help Labor              15      91   122    76
Construction Materials                 297   594   594
Labor (self-help)                     198   396   396
Administrati qn2                233    815   826   466
Maintenance4                     -       3    21           63    63    63    63
Total Costs             2,891  5,610 5,713 3,863    63    63    63    63
ProJect Benefits
Imputed Rental Values-.
Service Level A                             198   198
Service Level B                                 1,140 1,425   285   285   285
Service Level C                                   942   942 3,357 3,397 3,397
Service Level D                                    306   306   306   306   306
Land                                                                       3,019
Total Benefits                          198 2,586 2,673 3,988 3,988 7,007
a/ Costs for April 1977 including physical contingencies,
b/ Based on market value as of April 1977; sale of land after 30 years assuming
a conservative 30% appreciation in capital value.
c/ Includes earthworks, sewerage, drainage, pathways, water and roads.
d/ Includes design and engineering, supervision and management.
e/ Estimated at 0.5% per annum of the cost of infrastructure core units and
materials loans over the life of the dwelling.
L  Imputed rental values are as follows:  Service Level A:$10 (025), Service
Level B: $14.40 (036), Service Level C: $34 (085) and Service Level D: $58
(¢145). Full consolidation of service Levels A to B with the aid of con-
struction loans would require a Lull year and consolidation of B to a level
close to C the same period. A reduced value of $31 (077) for Level B upgraded
to Level C has been used since materials loans would not enable full transition
to Level C. Rental values are based on a survey of plots and dwellings com-
parable to those within the project in several Salvadorean cities. There will
be 1,650 Level A units, 6,600 Level B, 2,310 Level C and 440 Level D.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the impact of shadow-pricing
self-help labor by a factor of 25% to reflect the high rate of un- and under-
employment. The rate of return under this assumption would not change significantly.
2.        Estimates of employment for upgrading and serviced site development are
based on the amount of contractor work to be undertaken and anticipated wage rates
for unskilled labor, skilled labor and two administrative levels. Serviced s.te
construction would yield about 6,000 man-years of skilled and unskilled labor, and
another 400 administrative man-years. The upgrading pilot would generate about
50 man-years from civil works and administration.
3.        Jobs created through the small business scheme have been calculated
separately for the three lending categories of working capital, tools and equip-
ment and workshops, and for administration. It has been assumed that of the three
loan uses, tools and equipment would produce slightly more jobs since they are
typically fairly labor-intensive. About 4j,700 jobe would be generated with
another 100 within the administrative and training operations. Cost per Job
averages about 01,800 (US$735).
4.        In addition to job generation, the small business extension scheme should
lead to improved incomes for houseowners. Supplementary income will be derived
from basically two sources: reduced borrowing costs and additional profits. Bene-
fits derived from access to credit at annual rates of 15% in a context where
alternative sources may charge as much as 12% per day for brief periods is ap-
parent. A conservative assumption has been used that a borrower of 0600
working capital might otherwise have paid an annual rate of 50%, on his average
outstanding loan balance of 0300.  The differential of 38% or ¢l14 in the sample
case would constitute about 6% of the annual salary of a borrower earning 02,000
representing the median income of the informal businesses surveyed by the Federaticro
and FOCCO during May 1976. Under a very conservative assumption that the 0300
average balance loan produced only 5% profit margin on additional turnover due to
the extreme competitiveness of this sector, and that the 0300 turned over only
every two months, an additional 090 income would be generated. Total additional
disposable income would come to about 10% of the entrepreneurts annual salary.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Developrment Project
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDUILE
(US$ million)
Bank Group               Estimated Disbursement
Fiscal Year and Quarter        Quarterly   Cumulative
FY 1978
September 30, 1977                  0.3           0.3
December 31, 1977                    0.4          0.7
March 31, 1978                       0.8          1.5
June 30, 1978                       0.9           2.4
FY 1979
September 30, 1978                  0.9           3.3
December 31, 1978                    0.9          4.2
March 31, 1979                       1.0          5.2
June 30, 1979                       1.0           6.2
FY 1980
September 30, 1979                  1.1           7.3
December 31, 1979                   1.3           8.6
March 31, 1980                       1.1          9.7
June 30, 1980                        0.7         10.4
FY 1981
September 30, 1980 (completion)     0.8          11.2
December 31, 1980                    0.8         12.0
March 31, 1981                       0.4         12.4
June 30, 1981                       0.3          12.7



ANNEX 9
Table 2
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
DISBURSEMENT PLAN
-B------------------- D I S B U R S E M E N T   ( U S $ ) -----------
----------- Government and Other -------------
us$     Bank Group          FSVM            Budgets        Federacion           CAESS
Item                    Total   Amount      f    Amount    f       Amount   7,    Amount       i      Amout
I. SERVICED SITES
1. Land                             2,837                                       2,837   (io0)
2. On-Site Infrastructure.
(a) Earthworks, roads, foot-
paths, water, sewerage,
storm drains                 3,314   3,314    (io0)
(b) Security Lighting              744                                                                           744   (loo)
3. Trunk Infrastructure:
(a) Roads, storm drains            956                                        956   (loo)
(b) Water, sewerage                148     148    (1oo)
(c) Water supply, contingency      536     536    (loo)
4. Core Units:
(a) Contractor-built items       3,478   3,478    (100)
(b) Mutual-help materials        1,674   1,674    (ioo)
(c) Water meter and
connection                   516     516    (10O)
5. Construction Loans               1,080      443    ( 41)      637   ( 59)
6. Administration:
(a) Design engineering super-
vision and management        2,124      861    ( 41)      563   ( 27)     700   ( 33)
(b) Contingency well
operation                     96                                         96   (loo)
7. Community Facilities:
(a) Primary Schools              2,106                                      2,106   (loo)
(b) Community Centers              204                                        204   (lo0)
(c) Health Clinics                 390                                        390   (100)
(d) Markets                         88                                         88   (loo)
(e) Sports Areas                    88                                         88   (loo)
Subtotal:              20,379  10,970    ( 54)   1,200   ( 6)   7,465   ( 36)                           744   (  4)
II. UPGRADING
(a) Lnd                            112                                        112   (100)
(b) Infrastructure                 116       83    ( 70)                        33   ( 30)
(c) Ccommunity Facilities           18       13    ( 70)                         5   ( 30)
(d) Construction Loans              99      70    ( 70)                        29   ( 30)
(e) Administration                  30       22    ( 70)                         8   ( 30)
Subtotal:                 375     188    ( 50)                       187   ( 50)
III. SMALL BUSINESS EXTENSION
1. Credit;
(a) Loan capital                 3,000   1,400    ( 47)                                     1,600    ( 53)
(b) Administration                 237                                                        237    (1oo)
2. Training and Technical
Assistance                       260                                                         260    (100)
Subtotal:               3,497   1,400    ( 40)                                     2,097    ( 60)
IV. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/TRAINING
1. Shelter Technology/Design Study    80                          80   (ioo)
2. Evaluation of serviced sites        100      50    C 50)       50   ( 50)
3. Employment/Income Generation
Study                             64       64    (loo)
4. Technical Assistance                 30      30    (100)
Subtotal:                 274     144    ( 53)      130   ( 47)
Total:              24,525     702         ( 52)   1,330   5)   7,652 6    31)  2,097    (  9)       744  (   3)



ANNEX 10
EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
BASIC D&TA
Area                                                                 20,900 km2
Arable                               9,000 km2 (43%)
Non-arable                           L, 900 km2 (57%)
Population per km2 arable land         445
Population per ha arable land            4.45
Population                                                        4'°°°'°°°
Urban                                                        1,600,000 (40%)
Capital City--San Salvador    670,000 (17%)
Four largest secondary cities:
Santa Ana                165,800  (4%)
San Miguel               127,200  (3%)
Sonsonate                101,900  (3%)
Usulutan                  95,100  (2%)
Other urban areas             440,000 (11%)
Rural                                                        2,400,000 (60%)
Population growth                                                 3.1% p.a.
Annual number new households in urban areas                     10,000
(including migration) 1960-70
Shelter/Services
Amual urban housing production (public and private)         2,600
1960-70
Proportion of housing needing improvement/replacement (1971)       55%
Proportion of houses serviced with:
electricity                    90%
water supply                    0%
sewerage                       40%
Education
School enrollment  (ages 7-12) Dept. of San Salvador               91%
School enrollment (ages 13-15) Dept. of San Salvador               83%
Literacy rate                                                      60%
Economy
GNP (at market prices)                                   US$1,820 million
GNP per capita (1975)                                    US$  450
Annual growth of GNP in real terms (1970-1975)                      5.2%
Annual grcwth of active population                                  3.1%
Proportion of exports represented by coffee, cotton and sugar      60%
Effective unemployment (including underemployment)                 32%
(early 1970's)
Debt service ratio (projected 1975-1980)                            5-6%



EL SALVADOR                                                                        CHART 1-A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
SITES AND SERVICES COMPONENT
1976           1977                  1978                  1979                  1980                 1981
LSOT  AnANY 61000)               5           S     -
3-Other  (200)  6-San    Salvador  6-S  9-San    Salvador   D-AWorld 8ank-16677
AND6
MATERIALSPREDITS7 
WRELULICOSTRCATION,5
2-Santa Ana 10001  5-SanSalvador 8- 112001           8-Ohr (300)I11                                 I~       T ~        I          I
3-Ohe  (2016-Sn  alvdo C- 10019-anSaladr 0A  2001                                                                      orl Snk  162






CHART 1-B
EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FOR
PILOT UPGRADING COMPONENT
1976                     1977                                1978
A A|S|O|N|D  J  F|M|A ]M   I I |AS|O|N|D   J  F|M|A|MJI |  IA  S |OND
'Rins,                      .'Rans'I  ns:4 F
-School Year-    _4                -School Year-    -
PREPARATION/SURVEY/DESIGN
Socio-Economic Survey ................                                " -
Detailed Engineering ..........M
Property  Survey  ...................... ..   .
Land Acquisition From Municipality    
Legalization of Community Association-.
CON ST RU CTION
Water Network-..................                                                                           
Storm Drainage                ---------           .      --      ..
Stabilization of Topography  - - --|---|---.-r-- -
Street and Walkway Paving ............ -            .. . .... .. .          ..........
Laundry Facilities....... .........                J..  - . ------------  -----.
Community Day-Care Center J........ ..
Market  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
School ------------------------  - - -                                 ---
Sports    Fields  .......... .-                                       I. .  '. .|..  -..    ....   .  F           ......
Reforestation Project ................ --                                            -- ..............................................
Clinic .................    ...                         ..............    ...    ...  IM
MATERIALS LOANS
Warehouse Construction .................
Credits, Supervision, Technical Assistance                                           -  - . J    *  * * .  . _     *  * _  .
ISSUANCE OF TENURE RIGHTS
Survey/Marking  -                                                                          MM
Issuance of Leases/Mortgages ----------LTlI                                      L 
Mutual-Help Labor 
Contracted Labor  *  _   _ *                                                                                World Bank - 16668






EL SALVADOR
V  /7                                                                                         SECOND URBAN PROJECT
/K__            ____                                         PILOT UPGRADING PROJECT
/                                            /                                           "22 de Abril Community" - San Salvador
/    /                               -Ei'l                 3ts              \              o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2,5    50    75)    100
AMETERS
N
L~~~~~~~~~~
4,~~~~~~~~~                                -
C~~~~~~r~r
/Project o-ndories
[7     Proposed Moriset
-Proposed Woter Mom,,s
''o~'Pedestron, Walkways sod Steps to be upgraded                                                                         F 
Eoitin,g Dwellin,gs
Conn--al Laundries end Showers
Access Roads                                                                                                                            e
*   Water Points
0   Pine Hydrats
Contuors in Meters
A/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P =                                                       I F  O  AA






IBRD 12513
.  h.h .U2a.IS o I4sh,or  vh c-                            2A22/ d., r  '  rrt   X   $   ,,,  ,,,  3,GUATeMA]A     V7   HON DURAS
MERFC KO                        ~
EL  SALVADOR                                                                     Plots o.,th Potential              n                          O0UA                                                       A00
Commercial / Residential Development                                                                                        D 4  -_ <  sac 5vlVAD Rc?
LAYOUTS FOR "SONSONATE' AND"LA PRESITA I["                                                                              Residential Plots  Pr, -NIARAAo
Open Spaces (Mini Parks)
PROJECT  SITES                                                                                                              N                                                       .ce. Conod  -          fortA  .   . . 
----i-  Rn lroad                                Nr-
Irrigation Canal                                                    ...                    .    te     itoa   ..         ~       .t
Project Area
C  10  20  30  40                                 ~Sonsonate
Aenromote Scale                                                      361   Plots
San Miguel,
550 Plots
To S.,MgCl,                                                                                               Location oFExisting FV
Sites & Services Project
JANUARY 1977






EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
F EDECR ED ITO
Revised Organization
STOCKHOLDERS
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE
PRESIDENT
I           ~~~PLANNING
ASSESSOR                                COMMITTEE
GENERAL
MANAGER
INTERNAL               |       _         LEGAL
AUDITOR                                  ASSESSOR
ASSISTANT                                        ASSISTANT                                                           ASSISTANT
GENERAL MANAGER                                  GENERAL MANAGER                                                     GENERAL MANAGER
CAJAS                                            FINANCE                                                             ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT        TECHNICAL          I
AND CONTROL       (PLANNING AND      IURBAN CRIEDIT I'EPOE                      DEPT. OP           BOOKKEEPING        LEGAL               DEPT. OFPEPT.OFNE
OF AFFILIATED     EVALUATION OD      I DEPARTMENT          LO EMPLOYEE         FINANCE            DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT          DT                AND SERICES
CAJAS             RURAL PROJECTS     I
L       _    _-_    _    _ _ _
1                 2                    3                  4                  5                    6                  7                  8                   9
World Bank-16455






EL SALVADOR
Second Urban Development Project
ORGANIZATION CHART
FUNDACION SALVADORENA DE VIVIENDA MINIMA
March 1976
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
EXTERNAL
AUDITOR
(PRICE WATERHOUSE)
LEGAL ADVISER            DIRECTORS
CONIPTROLLER
(Internal Audiiting
EXECUTIV       ~~~~& Financial Studies
DIRECTOR
GENERAL
MANAGER
RESEARCH
I   OPERATIONS   g                               l    FIN}ANCE      l                                                  |ESOCIAL ACTION  l
| DIVISION     ll                                        DIVISilON    l                                                     DIVI SION4
rFINANCIAL
PRO'JECTS                               MUUL-HELP                FINNILCREDITS                            PERSONNEL                   SCA
AND               CONSTRUCTION                                    L                  AND 
PLANNING                               SELF-HELP                 CONTROL             COLLECTIONS          GENERAL SERVICES            PROMOTION          COOPERATIVES
World Bank-16457






EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ORGANIZATION
In Communities to be Upgraded
Board of Directors
(Elected Officials and Secretariats)
FOCC                                                               Executive Committee                       FOCCO Upgrading Unit                  FE1:)ECREDITO
--  -  -  -                                              ---         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Technical Assistnc  -- Small Business
Mutual-Help Program  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ .  (Elected Representatives of Zones)                  & Supervision                         Program
I~~~te --          -I         --- 
Secretariat        Secretariat         Secretariat         Secretariat         Secretariat        Secretariat         Secretariat         Secretariat        Secretariat
for                for                 for                 for                 for                for                 for            Measurement,        Employment
Housing &            Health            Education             Water               Sports           Accounts.             Refuse            Registry of            and
C onstruction                                                                                      Collection         Collection &          Property           Business
& Funds          Maintenance
Mutua                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mp o rment
Help Groups  I         ncRorsRepresnaisAency
FOCCO                                                                                                                                                     Bse
Technical Assistance                           -  1                                                                                                            Association
FOCCO Program for Sell-Help      --  -  -
Construction Materials Loans  r
Materials Warehouse        Supervison          Program                                                                          F     Special Projects for
and Tehnical   for Latrine                                                                       LITraining and Assistance by FOCCO.
Operation   Assistance        mprovementL.
World Bank- 16621






EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION-1976
|  MINISTER      |
SUB-SEC RETARIESl
LEGAL                                                             OFFICE OF PLANNING
OFFICE                                                            AND ORGANIZATION
PRGAMNG
DEPARTMENT OF          DEPARTMENT OF           DEPARTMENT OF          DEPARTMENT OF           DEPARTMENT OF          DEPARTMENT OF
ADMINISTRATION         CULTURE                 EDUCATION              EDUCATIONAL             EDUCATIONAL            TEACHER WELFARE
-|    SUPPLIES    l    _;   CULTURAL   l    -|   PEDAGOGICAL       ADMINISTRATION
EXTENSION             SERVICES             ____________________ 
-|    FINANCE    l    -| HCULTURALTAGE    BASIC EDUCATION          PRODUCTIONDESIGN
ADMINISTRATION           AECNDAHGHRY             TECHNICAL 
-|   PERSONNEL   l    -| OF ARTS             DANU HICHER              OPERATIONS  j        RECONSTRUCTION
YOUTH           ~~PERMANENT  1ADOVSA
i SEFVICES l -| ACTIVITIES   lPMAND ADULT     AUDIO-VISUA           ADMINISTRATION
SERVICE                          ~~~EDUCATION   j      __R __S0_ URC_EUS_
-|    SPORTS  l                                                -|  MAINTENANCE
World Bank - 16669






EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lvU
INSTITUTO DE VIVIENDA URBANA
ORGANIZATION CHART
|Board of Directors
President
l                                     l       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Technical Adviser
Manager
public                  Contr Unit ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ScilPhysical                                                                               EconmcOganization                                    Dt
| PRefations andS                                                                                                          Se n                      Seon                  ad M      d                P
Rea ons                t             n                    (Internal Audit)                                                                                 Sect io                     Ectonorrc{[
[   Ad mini strationh DeProdaction Department                                                                                                                                                             ommercialzation Department
Technical Hous ing                    Finance         ]                                    [                                            Lea
Secretarial                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Depart ment           Department                                                    Department                        Department
|   Procurement   |                                                                     mt       Projects                 Financial Studies
E tate                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Finac                                      InventoryJdcalAto
*|  Estate int                                                                        Supervision                          Adm stratonto
i Warehouse Control |                                                                       4    Construction                    Treasury                                                          Collecton
Current AccounLts                                                    Maintenance
General Accounting                                                     Cadastral
World Bank- 1 6860






EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                         Percentile
Project Affordability                                                      of Urban
Affordable to    %Spent on  Incom
Family with
monthly Income  ' Shelter    Distribution
Unit Sale Price                                                                         of:              & Services  Curve
13,000                              *-0-  FONDO SOCIAL aU                                 600
Unit Cost
12,000
11,000
10,000
9,000                                                        SE* ERaVICE LEVEL D(4%)     375         20%
8,0008
7,000
6,000
6,000 
5,000
* SERVICE LEVEL C (21%Y)            260       15%           44th
4,000 i_ 4,100
_  TOTAL                                       225                     37th
Loan of ¢ 400 = d 3,500
3,000                                        SERVICE LEVEL B (60%)                       200                     32nd
if 3,100
2,000 -                       TOTAL                                                      140                     1 8th
2,000                 ~~~~~~~Loan of if650  if 2,1 10
-  SERVICE LEVEL A 156%)                                      110                    11th
if 1,460
1,000 -          TOTAL                                                                   95                      9th
Loan of d 300 = d 1,065                                                 73      10%            6th
UPGRADING
if 765
a/ FNV unit costs average about ¢ 21,000.
World Bank-16657



I



' ~ ~      ~          ~           ~           ~       ~       ~ ~~~                           ~~~~~ rPA~ r                                                                                 G Z I  Ir   'o
o,0ot                  d P t5                  50 lsEf~ P      (er     O0, 15                                         esh45~                   eel£f  d9e50 dd bS  ddt S'  SSt 15t                                       JlAhAICA
Amm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
tltWre A^M '> g <4~~~~~~~~ornguor                                                                                        ,lsi   &  C¢.t -
+ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ool AJ  'OO  ii>                                                                     Sr 1 10b b
G U A T E M A L A                                t                                                                           H  O  N  D  U  R A  5 S                                                    A3~GAPNM
r/r, -S'  sAC~Flc 9    >  9ANA.MoAeir4^-r
2, Srnn Crsshob=l ,((                 >      *'            CholuTenorgo                                                                      _~   f                          I
i405  'gC olchio,poW    V                                               /                                                              _                                             / A-.  f ASC                         -  
&sfwtyr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sf' Cnecot2    z f  ae/ >    /nJor °Pobl     r                                              de Gdpb ,)                                                                                          A SnsnIi0-..  
o   ProPaced Sites                                                 \'fg9- El.ino                                                     Puerlo    tMopopolo ) \j   1'1
~~}3-15' ~ ~            0    Sites under first project                                   I                                 \;   '>-+M  <        R             Porodo .            (           l]                       y     9
.PaXved roods ~~ 4-'   ' Pm
Failroods                                                    |                                                                                                                        mpl      - 
-    Risers                                                                                                                                                                                        Fo:;s.t'
*    International airporl
Main portsI 
- --Departmental boundories                                                                                     pi4 .                         OrE A   Q ' '   4N
---International boundaries                o        irf     20      30    .40        S0
_ l3.00.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                                                                       ;;
0               to            20           20                                                                                                                           r 
MIFLES                                    ,                                                                                                    ft fI
9rf0 oo89-45'                                  d9' SO'Fs 15+                                    Orfoo                   WAS                     00se 30'                88'IS                    8SF00                   57*45'   
I- P.,.                                                             b.






-.ij                                             Xn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T TAETEPAK                 5t TMETTP<O                       XTOSSUA RAPRARA                                        1201 25
EL SALVADOR
_/ f                                                                 S TcnoNopie  /                              y            ,   a        <,            ei        )                   Sites and Services Project
'T-A' .-v \>                                                       <                        fi                               2nd Prn,eop P ,.
;_. >t X; / LIeef ... p onep2
A                                                      E         - AT 0 PeTs
; . ; . ; } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                             ETT OO  ,T  ,Tr$(TT Te,;
VOLCANO                                                   -.   .        ~         ''              .    . ,,       .,         >       -,                     :    - 
SAN SALVOD*-
r   -  2 
*    |°  3 -  *. |<  .  u e    ,,,1          J                  -;'         / ~ W >          m                                                                            ........................................................................................................... Sm FAI. -f   ;
.  1   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~          C    ;   --"                   '        ::                   d; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~if' ' :' : I .A
Wi ' ' X'f' T 4 X a~~~~~~~~~~K
%z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ .  2o






_             ,               _                  I~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 12512
l Santa Ana   ~ - .  /   p   2    San Miguel  /.l                                      ,  -  |;    bANUARY 1977
Sant An                      -''.'  .Miguel                                                                                                                                                                                 *
NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2  Fsre HrD s: ~~~Ji /r'  v* 
.w~~~~~~~~~~ *                             X           !      y¢ . 161   a's~   ga'a.-Vii->- , 4
:9  -,           66                  ;4 " :<         4        *.      ,  -.
-:E!                                                                                                  : t A  t
S o   s o   a t                                                                                    -  60          >t                                       P                               666  r  667  <6  4 6  \ 6 6 6 6   66 A<t*      
0 1t P g . . a| 3 it h - / , , tX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soaaol                                                                                    1
966    6n                                                                                                                    Sonots   M gal.
*  6&~~l%a I  V<66a/4F:i of                                              9594 R1,A      S     A     ;      n'6.6F6&-   CUonspw    > ,-. 
r  34   /                                                             EL SALVADOR
5a95j1 k  sj  5'  an                                               LOCATIONS OF PROPOSED AND PROJECT SITES
Cities of Santa Ana, Sao Miguel and Sonsonate
~F-tSpeln  FSVMi nile
- 7'7   En 4t ng praiotn
mo inaccess roods                                                   O      200      406      U0 n aG        IOS U
/4    g    SjP  jr7  Xam                                                                                Railroads                                                                              oasis
*       Enl e g ohonl°                                                                             200t         3000
F-e
-  !' -.  l'= Inteaiotnnl boundOrieri
6<>          'y7          t
'''s        /        6.9°                                                   ______               _   _______________________I____________________



