FILE  COPY                     ~~~~~~Document of
FILE COP                      -          - wThe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
, t,LU bJ  0              Report No. P-2106-ES
n     .     . 
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR A
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 2, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        =¢2.50
Colones (¢) =US$o.40
SDR 1       =02.714
FISCAL YEARS
FSDVM    - April 1-March 31
IVU     - July 1-June 30
FEDECCREDITO - June 1-May 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AID                  U. S. Agency for International Development
(Agencia Internacional de Desarrollo)
CABEI                Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
CACM                Central American Common Market
(Mercado Comun Centroamericano)
FEDECCREDITO         Federation of Credit Unions
(Federacion de Cajas de Credito)
FNV                  National Housing Bank
(Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda)
FOCCO                Bureau of Community Development and Cooperation
(Direccion General de Fomento y Cooperacion Comunal)
FSDVM                Salvadorean Foundation for Low Income Development and
Housing
(Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima)
FSV                  Social Housing Fund
(Fondo Social para la Vivienda)
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
IVU                 Urban Housing Institute
(Instituto de Vivienda Urbana)
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
(Programa de Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            The Republic of El Salvador
AMOUNT:              US$12.7 million equivalent
TERMS:               (a)  The Bank loan of US$6.7 million equivalent would be
for a term of 20 years, including 4.5 years of grace
with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
(b) The IDA Credit of US$6.0 million equivalent would be
on standard IDA terms.
RELENDING TERMS:     US$5.9 million of the Bank loan would be relent by the
Government to Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y
Vivienda Minima (FSDVM), Federacion de Cajas de Credito
(FEDECCREDITO), and Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU)
at the Bank's interest rate and term (except that FSDVM
would receive one additional year of grace). The IDA
credit would be relent by the Government to the three
agencies at 2 percent interest, with a 30-year term
including 6 years of grace to FSDVM, and a 20-year term
including 5 years of grace to FEDECCREDITO and IVU.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
related to the credit and the loan. FSDVM's mortgage
and construction loan terms to households would be 6.4
percent annual interest over 20 years. IVU's loan terms
to households would be 6.4 percent interest per annum
over 20 years. FEDECCREDITO's terms to borrowers would be
15 percent interest per annum and repayment periods up to
2 years for working capital, 5 years for equipment and 12
years for construction loans.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:       The project consists of:
A.   Serviced Sites
Approximately 8,000 serviced lots provided by
FSDVM; about 70 percent of the units would be
located in San Salvador and the remainder in
secondary cities or smaller towns. All plots
would be provided with water, storm drainage,
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
sewerage, streets, paved footpaths, and optional
electricity. A range of service levels
extending from a plot with basic infrastruc-
ture to a plot with completed dwelling would be
made available. The project would provide for
the development of about 400 sites for small
industrial or commercial as well as residential
use. Community facilities including multipurpose
community centers, public markets, sports fields,
health clinics and schools would be provided at the
project sites;
B.   Pilot Squatter Upgrading
A pilot scheme to be executed by IVU which would
involve the improvement of living conditions for
about 800 households living in a squatter settle-
ment, through provision of secure tenure, basic
infrastructure, community facilities, and credit
for dwelling improvements;
C.   Small Informal Credit
Credit and technical assistance designed to reach
proprietors of small enterprises living within
marginal communities. Loans would be provided by
FEDECCREDITO for working capital, equipment and
workshop construction or improvement. A com-
plementary program of training and technical
assistance would be made available to participants
in the program; and
D.   Training and Technical Assistance
Technical assistance and training to each of three
executing agencies to facilitate the execution of the
project and to deal with specific problems which
might arise during its implementation and to evaluate
project results.



ESTIMATED COST:                                               (US$ Millions)
Local  Foreign    Total
CATEGORIES
Serviced Sites
Land                                 2.8       -       2.8
Infrastructure
(a) on-site                        2.4     1.6      4.0
(b) off-site                       1.0     0.7      1.7
Core Units
(contractor components,
mutual-help materials,
water meter/connection)            4.2     1.4       5.6
Construction Loans                   0.9     0.2       1.1
Administration                       2.1     0.1       2.2
Community Facilities                 2.0     0.9      2.9
Pilot Squatter Upgrading               0.3     0.1      0.4
Small Informal Credit                  3.3     0.2       3.5
Training and Technical Assistance      0.2     0.1      0.3
Total Project Cost               19.2     5.3     24.5



- iv -
FINANCING PLAN:
(US$ Millions)
Private
Bank                  FEDEC-     Power
CATEGORIES                  Group   FSDVI Govt. CREDITO   Companies   Total
Serviced Sites
Land                         -      -    2.8      -          -       2.8
Community facilities         -      -    2.9      -         -        2.9
On-site infrastructure,
off-site infrastructure
and core units            9.7     -    1.0      -        0.7      11.4
Construction loans          0.4    0.6    -       -         -        1.0
Administration              0.8    0.6   0.8      -          -       2.2
Pilot Squatter Upgrading      0.2     -    0.2      -         -        0.4
Small Informal Credit         1.4     -     -      2.1        -        3.5
Technical Assistance/
Training                    0.2    0.1    -       -          -       0.3
12.7    1.3   7.7     2.1        0.7     24.5
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:
(US$ Millions)
FY1978   FY1979   FY1980    FY1981
Annual                2.4      3.8       4.2       2.3
Cumulative            2.4      6.2      10.4      12.7
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE:       The project would include about 145 man-months of studies
and technical assistance of which about 90 percent would
be provided by local personnel.



-v -
RATE OF RETURN:      The economic rate of return for the serviced site com-
ponent, which represents 84 percent of the total project
cost, is estimated at 18 percent.
APPRAISAL REPORT:    Report No. 1401a-ES, dated April 4, 1977.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR A SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$6.7 million and on a proposed development credit for
the equivalent of US$6.0 million to the Republic of El Salvador to help finance
a Second Urban Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 4.5 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum. The
development credit would be on standard IDA terms. The Government would on-
lend US$5.9 million of the loan and the entire credit to the three executing
agencies, Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima (FSDVM),
Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU) and the Federacion de Cajas de Credito
(FEDECCREDITO). The loan and credit would be relent to the executing agencies
on the terms and conditions described below (see paragraph 43).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on El Salvador" (1313-ES)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 24, 1977. The main
findings of this report are summarized below.
Economic Growth and Prospects
3.        El Salvador has the smallest land area of the five countries in the
Central American Common Market (CACM) area, but with nearly 4 million inhab-
itants, it has the highest population density (187 per km ). It is also one
of the five poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere, with estimated per
capita income of US$450 in 1975. Population has grown at a very fast pace.
Between 1961 and 1971, the growth rate was 3.5 percent per annum, a result
both of rapid natural growth (3.1 percent per annum) and of repatriation of
Salvadoreans living in Honduras. The Government is carrying out a family
planning program with the United Nations' support, and it is expected that by
the end of the decade, the program will cover 15-20 percent of the fertile
female population.
4.        While the Salvadorean economy still depends heavily on agriculture,
which contributes 25 percent of GDP, the quickly growing industrial sector now
accounts for 22 percent of GDP. Agriculture, however, continues to employ
nearly 60 percent of the labor force, compared with only 15 percent employed
by industry.



- 2 -
5.        The small size and limited natural resources of El Salvador make
it highly dependent on foreign trade. Following the 1969 conflict with
Honduras, all exports to that country, which accounted for over 10 percent
of the country's merchandise exports, were suspended. Moreover, the closing
of the border with Honduras resulted in a considerable increase in transport
costs of goods traded with other Central American countries. By 1972, El
Salvador had regained its market share in the CACM, offsetting the loss of the
Honduran market by increasing its exports to Guatemala. In the following
years, however, the world recession adversely affected El Salvador's manu-
facturing exports to both the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) and CACM countries. However, increased world prices
for the principal export commodities -- coffee and cotton -- and the sub-
stantial increase in export volume helped to soften the effect of the decline
in manufacturing exports.
6.        During the first half of the 1970's, El Salvador's GDP grew in real
terms at an average rate of over 5 percent per year -- about 2 percent on a
per capita basis. Growth during the period compared favorably with the 4.5
percent annual growth of the second half of the 1960's, although it fell con-
siderably behind the 7 percent annual growth of the first-half of the 1960's,
when the development of the CACM gave impetus to industrial production.
7.        The ongoing Government program of agricultural development which
gives emphasis to the promotion of basic grains, through the provision of
credit, technical assistance and support prices, has already had a strong
positive impact on production. This program is expected to continue in the
future and, partly as a result, the agricultural sector is expected to grow
at about 4.5 percent per year during the next five years. With an expected
recovery of the world economy, and with Government export-promotion policies
described below (paragraph 10), exports of manufactures are expected to grow
by 8-9 percent annually in the coming years as compared with only 6 percent
during 1970-75. This should have a strong impact on the growth of the manu-
facturing sector. On the whole, the overall GDP is expected to continue to
grow in real terms at about 5-6 percent annually in the remainder of the
decade. This growth could become even higher if the on-going discussions
between the Governments of Honduras and El Salvador result in a normaliza-
tion of relations between the two countries. Should this happen, it would
facilitate a full restoration of the CACM arrangements which were partially
disrupted by Honduras' withdrawal in 1970.
The Public Sector and Development Policy
8.        The role of the Government in the economy traditionally has been
supportive rather than a leading one. Public revenues and expenditures have
been maintained at relatively low levels and, consequently, the growth of
public services such as health, education and agricultural extension has been
slow. In the three year period (1973-75) which coincided with the first years
of implementation of the 1973-77 Development Plan, some progress was achieved
in this area. Thus, the share of Central Government revenues in GDP increased



-3-
from an average 11.1 percent in 1970-*72 to 12.2 percent in 1973-75, while the
share of public savings and investment in GDP increased from :3.3 to 4.4
percent and from 3.2 to 5.2 percent, respectively. The improvement in
revenue performance has been mainly the result of better tax administration
which, e.g., helped to quintuple the number of individual taxpayers within a
three-year period. The tax structure has remained virtually unchanged and
its modification could provide additional sources of income.
9.        The present Salvadorean Government has given increased attention
to the rural sector, intended to be the first stage of a broader long-term
plan of "national transformation" designed to attack the serious unemployment
problem. Effective unemployment (including underemployment) in El Salvador
is estimated to be at least 30 percent of the labor force. By embarking upon
a program to change the production structure of the agricultural sector, the
Government could bring about an increase in rural incomes and a reduction of
seasonal unemployment. This, in turn, might lead to a slowdown of migration
to urban centers, improvement in nutritional standards, and the creation of
an expanded domestic market for industrial products. As a first step in its
rural development plan, the Government in May 1975 secured passage in the
Congress of El Salvador's first comprehensive land reform law. This law
provides a framework for the Government to expropriate land with deferred
payments, and to finance land development and its distribution to small
holders. Government efforts to go forward with a major land reform project
in 1976, however, were unsuccessful because of strong resistance from larger
farmers. A new administration is to take office in July 1977, but it is too
early to tell whether it will renew efforts to initiate implementation of the
agrarian reform law.
10.       The Salvadorean authorities recognize that with El Salvador's
limited arable land and high population density, the development of the rural
sector must be supplemented by strong efforts to expand industrial production,
if the economy is to grow at a satisfactory rate and to provide employment
for the expanding work force. It is at the same time faced with both a small
domestic market and uncertain prospects for full restoration of the Common
Market. Under the circumstances, the Government has embarked upon a broad
program for the promotion of industrial exports to countries outside the CACM
area. In this endeavor, an Export Development Law which offers generous
incentives to export industry was passed in 1974. Furthermore, the Government
is carrying out a project for the establishment of free zones for the produc-
tion of industrial goods exclusively for export. The development of the
first of these free zones, located in the outskirts of San Salvador, is well
advanced, with a few plants already in operation. The existence of a strong
and growing entrepreneurial class should contribute to the success of the
export-promotion program. The expected growth of industry and the moderni-
zation of the-rural sector will require considerable investment in supporting
economic and social infrastructure in fields such as power, communications,
water supply,-education and housing.



- 4-
Balance of Payments and External Debt
11.       El Salvador's exports in the first half of the 1970's were much
more diversified than a decade earlier. In 1960, nearly 85 percent of export
earnings were derived from traditional agricultural products (coffee and cotton);
almost two-thirds came from coffee alone. By 1975 these figures had dropped
to about 50 percent and 35 percent respectively, while the contribution of
manufactured products had increased from 13 percent to about 30 percent of
export earnings.
12.       From 1967 to 1973, El Salvador had a positive trade balance; this,
however, disappeared in 1974 when the full impact of increased petroleum
prices pushed imports up steeply (imports grew by almost 50 percent, while
export proceeds increased by less than 30 percent). The situation improved
during 1975 when restrictive policies helped stem the flow of imports, while
export earnings increased considerably mainly as a result of an expansion of
cotton exports. The balance of payments deficit on current account was esti-
mated at US$90.0 million (5.8 percent of GDP) in 1975, a significant improve-
ment over the deficit of US$138.0 million (8.8 percent of GDP) of 1974. In
1976, notwithstanding a disastrous 1975/76 coffee crop, the sharp increase in
coffee prices and a drawdown of coffee stocks are estimated to have resulted
in doubling the earnings from coffee exports as compared with 1975. Thus,
although imports have grown substantially, the deficit on current account for
1976 is estimated at only US$30.0 million (1.4 percent of GDP).
13.       The prevailing high coffee prices, while subject to fluctuation,
are expected to be maintained in the next two to three years, and manufactur-
ing exports and tourism receipts are expected to grow more rapidly than in
the recent past. However, high prices for crude oil and oil-based products
(fertilizers and others) will continue to be a serious burden on the country's
foreign exchange earnings -- the share of petroleum, oil and lubricants alone
in imports increased from 2.2 percent in 1970 to 10 percent in 1975, and in
the longer term the real price of coffee is also expected to decline again.
Moreover, the heavy borrowing on commercial terms which was required to cover
the recent balance of payments deficits implies increased debt service pay-
ments during the next few years. As of the end of 1976, the country's external
public debt outstanding and disbursed repayable in foreign currency amounted
to US$272.0 million, or 12.7 percent of GDP.
External Assistance
14.       In terms of external assistance provided by agencies other than the
Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has been an increasingly
important lender to El Salvador for such sectors as housing, water and sewer-
age, and agricultural credit. While IDB lending was largely repayable in
local currency through 1972, the bulk of its loans in recent years are repay-
able in foreign currency. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(CABEI) has focused on industry and infrastructure projects with a regional
impact, while the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) worked in
the fields of health, basic education, housing and industry. The activities
of the major lenders during the 1970-76 period are summarized in the following
table:



EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO EL SALVADOR
(In Millions of US Dollars during 1950-1976)
IBRD     IDA      AID     IDB    CABEI
Total                                 152.9     19.6    60.7   177.0     110.4
of which repayable in
local currency                          -       -      1.2    93.4     n.a.
Cumulative Lending 1950-65             50.2      8.0    27.1    32.5      7.9
Cumulative Lending 1966-75            102.7     11.6    33.6   144.5    102.5
Transport                             2.8        -       -    12.0     66.1
Power and Telecommunications         75.8      5.6       -    38.1      3.3
Education                            21.6        -    10.1     2.0      0.5
Health                                  -        -     2.7       -        -
Housing                               2.5      6.0     3.0    19.3      7.7
Agriculture                             -        -    10.5    26.5      1.2
Industry                                -       -      4.8       -     17.6
Water and Sewerage                      -        -       -    45.0        -
Others                                  -        -     2.5     1.6      6.1
15.       The balance of payments and growth projections discussed above call
for an acceleration in El Salvador's total borrowing from major multilateral
and bilateral lenders. While El Salvador has traditionally maintained a low
debt-service ratio (less than 5 percent in 1976), the vulnerability of the
economy to developments in external markets because of the concentration of
exports and the strong dependence of its industrial sector on imported inputs
limits the country's capacity to borrow abroad on conventional terms. In view
of these circumstances, the uncertain long-term prospects for El Salvador's
major exports, widespread poverty, low per capita GNP (US$450 in 1975) and
the serious imbalance between natural resources and population, it would be
desirable for El Salvador to obtain part of the external financing required
for its development program on soft terms. Also, under these circumstances,
if domestic savings--which, at over 15 percent are relatively high for a
country of this income level--are to be complemented by a reasonable proportion
of external capital at the same time as social projects with a low foreign
expenditure component are undertaken, a certain amount of local expenditure
financing by external lenders is called for.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       El Salvador has to date received fifteen Bank loans and three IDA
credits totalling US$172.5 million. The last operation involving a combined
Third Window loan for US$9 million and Bank loan for US$30 million for a
power project was signed on July 28, 1976. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30, 1977,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       At the end of 1976, the Bank Group held 25 percent of the US$272.0
million external public debt outstanding and disbursed repayable in foreign
currency. This share is likely to remain substantially the same over the
remainder of the decade. The Bank Group share of total public debt service
in 1975 was 8.4 percent, and, because of the relatively softer terms provided
by the other major external lending agencies, is projected to reach about 17
percent by 1980.
18.       In the past, the Bank Group has assisted El Salvador in the develop-
ment of its infrastructure through projects in highways, power and telecom-
munications. Together with IDB and CABEI, the Bank assisted the development
of El Salvador's arterial highway system. A close relationship has evolved
between the Bank and El Salvador's public power agency, CEL, since its estab-
lishment, enabling the Bank to contribute significantly to the institution
building efforts of CEL's management. Similarly, the Bank's efforts to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the national telecommunications
agency (ANTEL) have facilitated the rapid expansion of that agency's oper-
ations.
19.       In recent years, the Bank Group has been increasingly active in the
social sectors in El Salvador, and two of the three most recent loans have
been for education and serviced sites. Projects currently under consideration
for future loans include vocational education, squatter upgrading, and urban
sanitation. In addition, the Bank Group would help in meeting the growing
resource requirements in power and communications and in strengthening the
institutions operating in these sectors. The expansion and improvement of
power and telecommunication services are vital for industrial development.
The possibility of Bank assistance to agriculture and rural development is
being examined in the light of a joint IBRD, IDB and AID agricultural and
rural survey of the five Central American countries.
20.       IFC has made two investments in El Salvador.    The first, a US$140,000
loan made in 1959 to Industrias Textiles, S.A., has been fully repaid. The
second, a US$233,000 equity investment and a US$600,000 loan to Hoteles de
Centro America, S.A., in 1969, was for a hotel project that was completed in
1972. IFC is exploring possibilities of additional investments that would
encourage private enterprise in El Salvador.



- 7 -
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Major Urban Problems
21.       Nearly 40 percent of the population of El Salvador lives in urban
areas. The capital city -- San Salvador -- has more than 670,000 inhabitants
or about 17 percent of the total population. Another 12 percent lives in the
four largest secondary cities: Santa Ana (165,800), San Miguel (127,200),
Sonsonate (101,900) and Usulutan (95,100).
22.       From 1960 to 1970, public and private housing production in towns
and cities averaged only 2,600 units per year, during which time 10,000 new
households were formed annually in urban areas. In 1971, preliminary national
census figures estimated the urban housing stock at about 270,000 units,
nearly two-thirds of which were in the five largest cities. Homes needing
improvement or replacement were estimated at 147,000, representing about 55
percent of the existing stock. About two-thirds of these units, or 98,000,
were occupied by households earning less than the equivalent of US$100 per
month. Although most homes (90 percent) had electricity, 60 percent lacked
individual water supply and sewerage. The use of low quality materials and
poor construction methods have contributed to the rapid physical deterioration
of the housing stock.
23.       Approximately three-quarters of the population of metropolitan San
Salvador resides in squatter settlements ("tugurios") typically located in
public rights-of-way, in unauthorized subdivisions on privately owned land,
or in tenements ("mesones"). Growth rates in these areas exceed those of the
city as a whole and may reach 15-20 percent in certain locations. Most
unauthorized sub-divisions are without services because owners are unable
to obtain the necessary development permits required for electrical, water,
and sewerage connections.
24.       Small informal business activities have created employment at
essentially subsistence levels for almost one-half of the total urban labor
force. Most businesses are owner-operated, and about a third provide jobs to
one or two employees. Bottlenecks to expansion of these small enterprises
include very low incomes within the consumer population, limited educational
and technical skills and restricted access to credit. The latter, in partic-
ular, has restricted the small entrepreneur's ability to build up stocks when
inputs are abundant and cheap, and may result in a halt in production when
input prices rise. As a result, profit margins are thin.
Government and Private Housing Programs
25.       The oldest public institution operating in the housing market is the
Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU), an agency established in 1950 to provide
dwelling units for low and middle income households. Until the mid-1960's,
IVU, with meager resources, carried out limited programs, building relatively



high standard houses. In the mid-1960's, international support from IDB
enabled IVU to expand its operations significantly. Although costs per unit
were lowered, dwellings were still beyond the reach of the lower urban income
groups.  A recent administrative restructuring and change in management is
expected to result in improved and expanded executing capacity for the
agency.  IVU's 1978-82 plan provides for 25,000 new and rehabilitated units
in urban areas of El Salvador, nearly 60 percent of which are targeted for
families with monthly incomes below the equivalent of US$100. IVU, the
executing agency of the pilot squatter upgrading component of the proposed
project, had previous experience with squatter upgrading under a project
carried out between 1972 and 1974, through which squatter areas containing
370 families in San Salvador were provided with water, sewerage, sanitary
units, streets, footpaths and secure tenure.
26.       To provide adequate housing facilities for industrial and commercial
workers, the Government established in 1973 the Fondo Social para la Vivienda
(FSV). All registered industrial and commercial employees are by law members
of the system. FSV is funded through a 5.5 percent payroll tax on wages and
salaries of employees included in the social security system augmented by -
Government contributions.
27.       The only private organization actively involved in low-cost housing
is the Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima (FSDVM), the
executing agency of the serviced site component of the proposed project.
The FSDVM is a private, non-profit entity created in 1970 for the purpose of
improving the living conditions of the lowest-income population, especially
those in squatter settlements. The FSDVM has been successful in achieving
this objective through self-help serviced site projects and related programs
primarily implemented under the first loan from the Bank. To date, FSDVM has
planned, designed and constructed over 4,000 serviced sites in seven cities
throughout El Salvador, and has become the major producer of low-income
housing.
28.       FSDVM's activities are geared towards integral community development.
In this context, it has worked in close collaboration with the Direccion
General de Fomento y Cooperacion Comunal (FOCCO), the Government community
development agency. FOCCO carries out projects for which the Government
supplies physical inputs and the community supplies free labor. Although
FOCCO has in the past carried out community development projects in both rural
and urban areas, it is expected that FOCCO's involvement in urban development
will decrease and that IVU's role will correspondingly increase.
Urban Development and Planning
29.       Aside from the work carried out under the first urban development
project by the FSDVM, investments presently underway or planned by public
agencies and Government departments for the San Salvador metropolitan area
are thus far proceeding in a largely uncoordinated fashion and without refer-
ence to the urban development plan for the city completed by the Government



- 9 -
in 1968 with assistance from AID. An urban study was initiated on September 13,
1976, with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) financing and the
Bank as the executing agency. The study will prepare recommendations and legis-
lative guidelines to facilitate: (i) land acquisition for public development
purposes; (ii) adoption of tax measures to curb land speculation; (iii) urban
planning and implementation of such plans; and (iv) strengthening of institu-
tions financing and executing housing programs.
Small Industry Development
30.       The Federacion de Cajas de Credito (FEDECCREDITO) is an autonomous
state enterprise established in 1943 for the purpose of assisting small enter-
prises through loans and technical assistance. It will be the executing
agency for the small business credit component of the proposed project. As a
national association of credit unions, it consists of 39 individual cooperative
societies located throughout El Salvador, embracing a total membership of
about 48,600 individuals. FEDECCREDITO operates various programs, including
rural credit and commercial credit. The latter includes a special program,
"Credito Popular," in urban areas which provides financial assistance primarily
to stall owners in public markets. The "Credito Popular" scheme is perhaps
the only formal financing program in El Salvador designed to provide credit
for the poorest segment of the industrial sector.
The First Serviced Site Project
31.       The first Serviced Site Project financed by the Bank in El Salvador
was designed to address the severe shortage of low-cost shelter. The project's
objectives were:
(a) to demonstrate the suitability of the serviced site approach
as a practical alternative to conventional, fully contractor-
built housing;
(b) to provide 7,000 low-cost units affordable to families
earning the equivalent of US$40-US$120 per month; and
(c) to significantly expand the production capacity of FSDVM,
thus demonstrating the potential role of the private
sector in low-cost shelter development.
Although only two years have elapsed since inception of the project, nearly
3,000 units have been built at costs which have permitted their sale at prices
within the reach of families with incomes of the target group. Total unit
development costs for each site, including price escalation allowances, have
been within 6 percent of the anticipated cost. The FSDVM's annual production
capacity has expanded from about 200 units in the early 1970's to 1,500 units
at present.
32.       Adjustments in FSDVM's approach have been made over this period as
experience was gained. Response to mutual-help (on-site construction work by



- 10 -
teams of project participants under FSDVM's supervision) proved strong and
additional work has been shifted from contractors to mutual help. The com-
bination of tasks executed through the more closely supervised mutual-help
stage, as opposed to the more independent self-help phase, was also revised
with consequent changes in the composition of materials required for the
self-help (individual owner) completion of dwellings. In addition, unit
designs have undergone gradual adaptation as families' needs were better
understood.
33.       The two major problems encountered under the first project involved
land acquisition and water supply in San Salvador. The former was primarily
due to the unwillingness of one individual to sell, and the latter due to
severe water shortages throughout the city, exacerbated by delays in construc-
tion of new water supply schemes. The water shortage led to a slower dwelling
occupancy rate than had been originally scheduled and generally in a slowdown
in monthly payments by beneficiaries to FSDVM. Although arrearages thus became
a problem in San Salvador, the collection record in other FSDVM sites has been
excellent.
34.       The water supply problem has now been satisfactorily resolved
through a temporary valve adjustment which diverted sufficient water from the
city's main supply to meet the first project's needs. The first phase of a
major water supply scheme for the city of San Salvador, the Zona Norte Project,
is scheduled for completion in mid-1979. When fully implemented, the Zona
Norte Project is expected to satisfy all of the water supply needs of the
city.
35.       The land acquisition problem encountered in the San Salvador area
during the execution of the first project has been largely resolved; purchase
options or bills of sale have been obtained by FSDVM for 33 ha. of land in
the San Salvador metropolitan area, which will be sufficient to complete the
first project's needs. In view of the past land acquisition problems en-
countered in San Salvador, assurances were obtained from the Government
during negotiations that, if necessary, the Government would acquire the 60
ha. needed to meet the second project's needs in the San Salvador area by the
end of 1977. Land acquisition would be through IVU and prices charged to
FSDVM would cover only the Government's acquisition cost and an annual interest
of 5 percent on the outstanding balance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       A report entitled "El Salvador, Second Urban Development Project,"
No. 1401a-ES dated April 4, 1977, is being distributed separately. Project
preparation, coordinated with the Ministry of Planning, was completed between
December 1975 and August 1976 by the Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y
Vivienda Minima (FSDVM), the Federacion de Cajas de Credito (FEDECCREDITO) and
several government agencies, assisted by Bank missions in February and June of



- 11 -
1976. The project was appraised in August and September 1976. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from March 8 to March 11, 1977. The principal
representative for the Government was Mr. Roberto Chico Duarte, Minister of
Planning.
37.       The project would be national in scope, covering San Salvador and
several smaller cities where growth has been most rapid and shelter needs are
the greatest. The objective would be to provide access to land, credit and
technical skills for the lowest income families. While designed with a view
to its replicability throughout the country, the project itself would make an
important contribution to relieving the severe shortage of low-cost urban
shelter. Nearly 80 percent of the units would be affordable to families
earning the equivalent of US$90 or less monthly, and thus within about the
lower one-third of the urban income distribution curve. A further objective
of the project would be to encourage the provision of adequate community
facilities and effective community development programs as an integral part of
low-cost housing. Through the establishment of the lines of business credit
and training in production and managerial skills for small-scale informal
businesses, and through labor intensive construction methods, efforts would
be made to increase income and employment opportunities. The project would
contribute towards achieving a better balance of urban land ownership and
income distribution in El Salvador.
Summary Description
38.       The proposed project would include:
(a) approximately 8,000 serviced lots provided by FSDVM; about
70 percent of the units would be located in San Salvador
where demand is greatest and the remainder in secondary
cities or smaller towns. All plots would be provided with
water, storm drainage, sewerage, streets, paved footpaths,
and optional electricity. A range of service levels
extending from a plot with basic infrastructure to a plot
with expanded core dwelling would be made available. The
project would provide for the development of about 400 sites
for small industrial or commercial, as well as residential use.
Community facilities including multipurpose community centers,
public markets, sports fields, health clinics and schools would
be provided at the project sites;
(b) a pilot upgrading scheme to. be executed by IVU which would
involve the improvement of living conditions for about 800
households living in a "tugurio" settlement, through provision
of secure tenure, basic infrastructure, community facilities,
and credit for dwelling improvements;
(c) credit and technical assistance designed to reach proprietors
of small enterprises living within marginal communities and



- 12 -
currently operating outside the banking system. Loans would
be provided by FEDECCREDITO for working capital, equipment
and workshop construction or improvement. A complementary
program of training and technical assistance administered by
FEDECCREDITO would be made available to participants in the
program; and
(d) technical assistance and training to each of the three
executing agencies to facilitate the execution of the project,
to deal with specific problems which might arise during its
implementation, and to evaluate its results.
Costs and Financing
39.       The total cost of the project is estimated at the equivalent of
US$24.5 million, including land and contingencies, but excluding the value of
mutual and self-help labor. Of the total, 21 percent, or the equivalent of
US$5.2 million, is estimated to represent foreign exchange costs.
40.       The serviced site component represents 84 percent of total costs,
the small informal business credit program 14 percent, the pilot upgrading
scheme 1 percent, and training and technical assistance 1 percent.
41.       The US$12.7 million of Bank and IDA funds would finance 52 percent
of project costs and would cover the foreign exchange costs of US$5.2 million
and local costs of the equivalent of US$7.5 million. Local currency financing
is justified for the reasons stated in paragraph 15 above.
42.       The remainder of the financing for the project would be provided by
local sources as follows:
LOCAL FINANCING SOURCES
% of
US$ Million       Project Cost
Government                       7.7               31
FSDVM                            1.3                5
FEDECCREDITO                     2.1                9
Private Power Companies          0.7                3
Total                      11.8               48
43.       The equivalent of US$5.9 million of the proposed US$6.7 million Bank
loan would be relent by the Government to FSDVM (US$5.1 million), FEDECCREDITO
(US$0.7 million), and IVU (US$0.1 million) on the same terms as the Bank loan
(except that FSDVM would receive 5.5 years of grace). The remaining US$0.8
million of the Bank loan would be used for the construction of off-site infra-
structure and for technical assistance to the three executing agencies. The



- 13 -
IDA credit of the equivalent of US$6.0 million would be relent by the Govern-
ment at 2 percent interest with a 30-year term including 6 years of grace to
FSDVM (US$5.2 million), and a 20-year term including 5 years of grace to
FEDECCREDITO (US$0.7 million) and IVU (US$0.1 million). The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Detailed Features of Components
A. Serviced Site Component
44.       Distribution of Sites and Site Selection Methodology:    Sites were
selected on the basis of proximity to employment and off-site infrastructure,
topographic characteristics, surface and subsurface soil conditions, road
access, and feasibility of acquisition. With the exception of plots for
service Level D, described below, plot sizes would range between 60 and 80
square meters.
45.       Service Levels:   The range of service levels under the proposed
second project would be wider than that of the first project. Four basic
levels would be offered:
Service Level A (representing 15 percent of the units) would
provide for inter alia any one of the following options:
(i) a plot with just the basic infrastructure connections;
(ii) a one-room rental unit with communal sanitary facilities;
or (iii) a plot with centrally located but individual
sanitary facilities.
Service Level B (representing 60 percent of the units) would
provide for either of the following options: (i) a plot
with an individual sanitary core; or (ii) a basic dwelling
room with centrally located but individual sanitary facilities.
Service Level C (representing 21 percent of the units)
would provide for either of the following options: (i) a
plot with an expanded core dwelling and individual sanitary
unit; or (ii) a condominium apartment unit with individual
sanitary core.
Service Level D (representing 4 percent of the units) would
provide a 107 square meter plot with a completed expanded
dwelling and sanitary core. 1/
46.       Vertical expansion of the dwellings would be possible at the self-
help stage to achieve greater density in areas such as San Salvador where
1/   Service Level D, to be built in limited quantity, is intended to intro-
duce into each settlement some families of somewhat higher per capita
income and social mobility.



- 14 -
land is scarce and costly. In order to encourage continuing evaluation and
improvement of unit designs, FSDVM would build several models, representing the
various service levels' designs in each site. A market survey would precede
site development to determine customer preferences among the various unit
types.
47.       Community Facilities:   The availability of community facilities in
areas adjacent to project sites was examined before including additional
facilities in the project. Based on this examination, 7 markets, 16 multi-
purpose community centers, 12 schools and 3 health clinics would be provided
by the project.
48.       Off-Site Infrastructure:   Off-site infrastructure essential to site
development would be provided, including construction and improvement of major
access roads, water distribution mains, sewerage, storm drainage and electri-
city.
49.       Water supply in San Salvador will be augmented through the Zona
Norte water supply scheme being constructed with financial assistance from
IDB. The proposed project provides for a water well contingency plan (to be
implemented in the event slippages were to occur in the Zona Norte scheme)
which would supply sufficient water to project sites in San Salvador to allow
occupancy on schedule.
50.       Cost of Units:   The average sale price for the units would be the
equivalent of US$1,300, compared with US$1,800 (based on 1977 prices) under
the first project. Lowered costs are the result of a planned increase in
mutual help, reduced lot sizes, and a more efficient infrastructure and core
unit design. Development costs per unit for the four service levels would
range from US$800 to US$2,800. Sale prices would be adjusted to reflect the
locational advantages of lots with commercial potential; units at the highest
service level (Level D) would be sold at a profit, and the profits derived
from these units and from the sale of lots with commercial potential would be
applied to lowering the sale price of service Level A in order to benefit the
poorest income groups. These adjustments would result in sales prices per
unit which would range from US$580 to US$3,240.
51.       Project Beneficiaries and Terms of Participation:   The Social Depart-
ment of FSDVM would screen and evaluate applications. Selection criteria
would include: (a) residency in squatter settlements or poor housing condi-
tions for two or more years; (b) a per capita monthly income of not more than
US$20 rising to not more than US$28 from mid-1978 onward; and (c) intention to
live on the assigned lot. (Candidates for the highest service level, Level D,
would be exempt from (a) and (b).) In addition to the sales price of the
site, the family would be required to contribute mutual-help labor valued at
10 percent of such sales price or to make an equivalent cash downpayment.
FSDVM has had considerable success in organizing project participants into
"mutual help" construction teams of 15-30 persons who carry out trench-digging,
pipe-laying and construction of core units. The teams are trained by an FSDVM



- 15 -
technical foreman and a social worker. This phase is also important in devel-
oping community identity, organization and a sense of shared responsibility.
Occupancy follows the mutual-help stage and families proceed to complete their
dwelling with the aid of construction loans.
52.       FSDVM would construct, stock and manage on-site warehouses.    House-
holds would be able to withdraw construction loans for Levels A and B of up
to US$260 equivalent in tranches as needed. Technical advice would accompany
the loan. Simple, illustrated construction manuals and model homes would help
families visualize possible improvements. Guidance would also be given on the
use and maintenance of the facilities built.
53.       FSDVM's proposed terms of financing would result in an interest rate
to households of 6.4 percent for both mortgages and construction loans. This
interest rate would allow about a 1 percent spread over FSDVM's average cost of
funds. Repayment would be in 20 years. While the 6.4 percent interest rate
is low in relation to the recent rate of inflation in El Salvador (17, 19,
and about 8 percent for 1974, 1975 and 1976, respectively), it is considered
acceptable as the historical rate of inflation (1965 through 1973) is less
than 2 percent per year and the Government has traditionally followed mone-
tary and fiscal policies oriented towards price stability.
54.       Total monthly mortgage payments by participant households would
range between about US$5 and US$14 equivalent for 96 percent of the units.
For the remaining 4 percent of the units, representing those planned for
service Level D, the monthly mortgage payment would be about US$28. Charges
for all utilities (except electricity which is optional) would total about
US$1.50 per month. Assuming that such families can afford only 15 percent of
their monthly incomes for housing and utility payments, the serviced site
component of the project would reach families with incomes as low as US$43
equivalent per month, representing about the tenth percentile of the urban
income distribution curve. Participants would be exempt from property taxes,
since home values would fall below the threshold above which taxes are
levied.
55.       Implementation:   The executing agency for the serviced site compo-
nent would be FSDVM which would be responsible for, inter alia, lot design,
engineering, construction supervision, and the administration of construction
loans. Community facilities would be the responsibility of various Government
agencies. Schools and health clinics would be constructed by the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Health, respectively. FOCCO would be responsible
for multipurpose community centers, markets and sports fields. The FSDVM
would be responsible for the construction of trunk water and sewerage which
would be subsequently turned over to the national water authority. Construc-
tion of access roads and storm drains would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Public Works. Street lighting and individual electrical connec-
tions would be built by private power companies.
56.       Project execution would take about three-and-one-half years.   Land
acquisition would take place during 1977 for San Salvador. Occupancy and self-
help completion of the units would begin in mid-1978, continuing through 1980.



- 16 -
57.       To facilitate the execution of the first project, the Ministry
of Planning established a Coordinating Committee, composed of its own senior
officials and representatives from various Government agencies and the execut-
ing agencies involved in the project. The Committee would also coordinate the
activities of the entities involved in the second project. Quarterly progress
reports would be prepared by the executing agencies and made available to the
Committee and to the Bank.
58.       The FSDVM is a small, well-managed organization with competent tech-
nical staff. Membership is by voluntary subscription and is drawn from a wide
spectrum of society including entrepreneurs, workers and residents of squatter
settlements. The twelve-member Board of Directors, composed of prominent
Salvadoreans from a broad range of economic activities, is elected by the
membership to serve for two years.
59.       Present FSDVM staff totals about 100; however, in order to execute
the serviced site component of the project, FSDVM would expand its staff by
about 25 percent. FSDVM would also enlarge its central office to accommodate
the additional staff required. FSDVM is a well-managed agency, and with the
technical assistance provided under the project, execution can be expected to
proceed smoothly.
B. Pilot Squatter Upgrading Component
60.       Description:   The proposed pilot squatter upgrading component would
provide practical feedback on proposed tenure arrangements, mutual-help
response, organization, staffing and other program features for the future
national upgrading program for squatter settlements currently being formulated
under the on-going UNDP-financed Urban Study (paragraph 29).
61.       The proposed settlement to be upgraded (called the "22nd of April")
is located on municipal land near one of San Salvador's major access roads
and industrial zones. Job opportunities are available in the vicinity. Mini-
mal water service is currently provided, but residents must walk a considerable
distance to the two communal taps. Although tost of the dwellings are located
on steep slopes, vegetation growth has helped stabilize the area from erosion
during seasonal rains. The existing residents' organization, which would be
legally constituted as a Community Association, would facilitate local con-
sultations with the residents regarding all aspects of the upgrading scheme.
62.       The proposed scheme would provide basic infrastructure, community
facilities, secure land tenure, and construction loans for dwelling improve-
ments. Land would be purchased from the Municipality by the Community
Association and resold to individual households. The proposed scheme would
provide residents of the community with a legally binding and transferable
title to land and dwelling.



- 17 -
63.       Development Costs and Recovery:   Development costs of the pilot
scheme would total about US$375,000, including land, infrastructure, commun-
ity facilities, construction loans and administration. Excluding the optional
construction loan (and the community facilities which would be provided by
the Government), the average development cost per family would be about
US$300 equivalent. Full costs of upgrading (including land, infrastructure,
construction loans, administration and interest during development) would
be recovered from residents through loans which would have terms of 6.4
percent interest and 20 years amortization, with no grace period. Together
with charges for materials loans, this would result in total monthly charges,
including utilities, ranging between US$3 and US$4. Servicing standards
would be simpler than in serviced site areas, in view of the communities'
lower average household income levels. The costs of work undertaken would be
affordable by about 85 percent of the community, assuming that such families
can afford only 10 percent of their monthly income for housing and utility
payments. On this basis, the upgrading scheme would reach families with
incomes as low as US$30 equivalent per month. This income level represents
about the sixth percentile on the urban income distribution curve.
64.       Implementation:   The Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU) would imple-
ment the pilot squatter upgrading component. A special project unit would be
created within IVU with specific responsibilities for detailed design and
implementation of upgrading.   IVU would discuss technical, legal, administrative
and financial issues with the local residents and would develop a preliminary
plan in close consultation with the community. Thus, the ultimate composition
of the upgrading scheme will reflect very closely the communities' priorities.
IVU would require a high degree of concensus as to the features of the upgrad-
ing plan prior to its implementation. The community, through the Community
Association, would be responsible for maintaining certain facilities and
collecting monthly payments. Most important, the Community Association would
purchase land, register individual property rights and resolve any tenure
disputes which might arise from time to time. The pilot upgrading scheme
would be initiated in 1977 and completed within 15 months.
C. Small Informal Business Credit Program
65.       Description:   The small business component is designed to reach
informal urban enterprises operating outside the conventional banking frame-
work, and would offer both credit and optional technical assistance. Other
agencies such as the Fondo de Financiamiento y Garantia para la Pequena
Empresa (FIGAPE) and the Instituto Salvadoreno de Fomento Cooperativo
(INSAFOCCOP) provide technical and financial assistance only to established
firms and do not reach the very small informal enterprises to be helped
through the proposed program.
66.       Costs and Terms:   A revolving line of credit totalling the equiva-
lent of US$3.0 million would be made available for loans up to the amount of
US$2,400, for three purposes: (a) working capital, (b) the purchase of tools
and equipment, and (c) the construction, extension or repair of workshops.



- 18 -
A loan ceiling of US$4,800 would apply to cooperatives. Any enterprise
located within an FSDVM site or a marginal community would be eligible for
credit. Small firms located elsewhere with fixed assets below US$2,000
(US$4,000 for cooperatives) could also apply. A simple feasibility study
will be undertaken for loan requests exceeding US$600.
67.       The repayment period would be up to 2 years for working capital,
5 years for equipment, and 12 years for construction loans. A maximum grace
period of 6 months would be offered for working capital loans and 12 months
for the remaining two categories. Annual interest would be 15 percent
on all loans. (An application fee of 1.5 percent would be charged to first
time borrowers.) The rate includes an 8.4 percent spread over the estimated
cost of borrowing by FEDECCREDITO, which is justified by the cost of adminis-
tering a large number of very small loans and by the cost of the training and
technical assistance program to be provided. Collateral would generally be
available for credit covering workshops and tools. Working capital loans
would be secured through co-signing or group guarantees.
68.       Following the first 12 months of operations or when sufficient loans
have been approved, a review would be made by the Government, FEDECCREDITO
and the Bank of the pricing structure and operating procedures. (The pricing
structure for the proposed scheme would result in significantly lower cost
to borrowers than under FEDECCREDITO's existing "Credito Popular" scheme.) A
report would be prepared which would include recommended adjustments.
FEDECCREDITO's adoption of suitable pricing adjustments (if any) would be
required before loan commitments could continue.
69.       Training:  Training and technical assistance would be offered to
participants in the lending program. While such training and technical
assistance, in general, would not be a requisite to obtaining credit,
FEDECCREDITO would reserve the right to require technical assistance in
particular cases. Informal businesses wishing to participate in the training
program need not be borrowers to qualify. Training would be offered at
community centers or schools within each community, in business skills such
as management, basic accounting, inventory control, purchasing and marketing.
A special effort would be made to help organize marketing for groups of
individual entrepreneurs, both to capture larger contracts, which individual
enterprises would be unable to fulfill by themselves, and to gain entry into
new markets.
70.       Implementation:   FEDECCREDITO would implement the small informal
business credit component of the proposed project. A new Urban Credit Depart-
ment would be established. After the review of the pricing structure and
operating procedures is completed, the urban credit operations would be
decentralized to local credit unions, but the Department would still continue
to serve San Salvador directly.



- 19 -
D. Training and Technical Assistance
71.       Assistance would be provided to each of the three executing agencies
to improve the execution of the project, to deal with specific problems which
might arise during its implementation, to execute specialized studies and for
evaluation of project results.
72.       The project would provide a total of about 145 man-months of studies
and technical assistance of which about 90 percent would be carried out by
local personnel. Estimated costs for consulting services are US$880 and
US$5,000 per man-month for local and foreign personnel, respectively.
73.       Parallel to the Bank-assisted project, a health education program
would be offered by the Ministry of Health at clinics built under the serviced
site component of the project. In addition, instruction on basic nutrition,
preparation and proper storage of foodstuffs, which is being carried out by
FOCCO under the first Bank project, would be continued.
Procurement
74.       International competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines
would be required for goods and services which are estimated to total the
equivalent of US$10.7 million. This would include major civil works, building
materials, equipment, and school furniture. Manufacturers located within the
Central American Common Market (CACM) would be eligible for a preferential
margin in international competitive bidding equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f.
price of manufactured items or 50 percent of the tariff payable by non-CAGM
manufacturers, whichever is lower.
75.       Contracts for civil works, building materials and equipment which
fall below the equivalent of US$120,000 could be procured through local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank, up to the aggregate amount of US$6.9 million.
Disbursement
76.       A revolving fund of US$300,000 was established under the first loan
to facilitate prompt payment to small local contractors and suppliers with
limited working capital who have won all contracts to date. The facility has
ensured steady progress on civil works and has helped lower contract costs by
eliminating the need for interim borrowing by contractors. Procedures and
operations of the fund were inspected in October 1976 by the Bank and adjust-
ments were made to ensure conformity with guidelines that have been agreed
with the Bank. A similar revolving fund would be created under the serviced
site component of the proposed project.
77.       Disbursements would take place over a four-year period, with the
proceeds of the Bank loan and IDA credit covering 100 percent of expenditures
for civil works (exclusive of expenditures on land, community facilities,



- 20 -
access roads, storm drains and security lighting which would be wholly fi-
nanced by the Government and private power companies) and 41 percent of
construction loans and administration costs for the serviced site component.
The loan and credit would also cover 70 percent of expenditures on the pilot
upgrading scheme (exclusive of land), 47 percent of expenditures under the
informal small business credit program (exclusive of administration and tech-
nical assistance to small enterprises), and 53 percent of expenditures on
the overall technical assistance and training component of the project.
78.       Because of the urgency of initiating work on the pilot upgrading and
serviced site components, an amount of US$300,000 would be disbursed retro-
actively for design, administration and minor civil works expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1977, by FSDVM and IVU.
Project Benefits and Risks
79.       Serviced Site and Pilot Squatter Upgrading Components:   The economic
rate of return of the serviced site component of the project which represents
84 percent of the project is estimated at 18 percent, taking into consideration
only direct benefits (based on imputed rental values for plots and dwellings)
and costs of the shelter to be provided. It has been estimated that about
6,450 man-years of employment would be generated during implementation of the
serviced site and pilot upgrading components of the project. In addition, the
serviced site component would have an income redistribution effect by providing
low-cost shelter to low-income households who are currently paying excessive
prices for dwellings.
80.       The two major problems encountered under the first project, land
acquisition and water supply, have been satisfactorily resolved. While the
proposed project has been designed to minimize the risk of recurrence, the
possibility nevertheless exists that implementation could be delayed by
problems arising from land acquisition and water supply.
81.       Small Informal Business Credit Program:   The availability of credit
and technical assistance to small informal businesses could be expected to
result in increased family incomes, due to reduced borrowing costs and in-
creased sales. The small business scheme would be highly labor intensive, and
it is estimated that about 4,800 jobs would be created through the implementa-
tion of this component, at an average cost of US$735 per job. The proposed
review of operating procedures and pricing structure after about one year
(discussed in paragraph 68 above) should help reduce the risks arising from
the experimental features of this program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement and the draft Development Credit Agreement
between the Republic of El Salvador, and respectively, the Bank and the
Association; the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Association



- 21 -
and the Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima (FSDVM); the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association; and the text of two draft resolutions approv-
ing the proposed loan and the proposed development credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
83.       Special conditions of the proposed loan and development credit are
listed in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness
would be the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and FSDVM. Special conditions of disbursement would be: (a) for the pilot
upgrading component, execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and the Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU), creation of a project
unit in IVU, and appointment of the unit chief and key staff members; and (b)
for the informal small business credit component, execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and the Federacion de Cajas de Credito
(FEDECCREDITO), creation of a new department in FEDECCREDITO and appointment
of the department head and key staff members.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 2, 1977






t - LE IA
EL SALVAORA        - SOCIAL II"TORS DATA SnET
LANe AREA ITTOU KNZI-
---------------                               EL SALVAOR                       REFEReNCE CCUNTRIES 11970)
TOTAL       21.'                                   MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      13.2                     1960      1970   ESTiPATE         GUATEMALA     PANAMA        COSTA RICA
GNP PER CAPITA (USRI                  180.0     300.0     450.0             390.0      730.0      560.0
POPULATIDN AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          2.4       3.4       4.0               4.9        1.'        1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                    114.0     160.0     187.0              45.0       19.0       34.0
P6R SQ. KM. AGRICULtURAL LANO     201.0         .     270.01.                       85.0      106.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THOU, AV)       46.5      46.1      42.2              45.0       39.8       41.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE I/THOU,AV)        20.1      14.3      11.1              16.8        8.7        8.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/T10U)      76.0      66.6      59.0              67.1      41.0       62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (VASI     58.5        ..      65.01            51.1       64.9       66.8
GROSS REPROCUCTION RATE              ..        ..        ..               3.1        2.8        3.4
POPULATION GROwTH RATE tIY
TOTAL                               2.7       3.5       3.1               2.5        3.1        3.3
URBAN                               3.3       3.7       3.4 /b            2.21      4.3        5.2 /
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTALI        38.5      39.0      39.4              33.8       47.6       36.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENTI
0 TO 14 YEARS                     44.8      47.5      46.1 1            45.0       43.0       47.4
15 TO 68 YEARS                     52.0      49.4      50.'4 A           52.0       53.0      49.3
65 YEARS AND OVER                   3.2       3.1       3.5 /             3.0        4.0        3.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.9       1.0       1.0               0.9        0.9        1.0
ECONOMIC OEPENOENCY RATIO             1.7        ..       1.6c               ..        1.5        1.6 /b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUMULATIVE, THCU)         ..        ..      70.0              41.3                 165.0
USERS It OF MARRIED WOMENI           ..        ..       8.6                .
E PPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAOR FORCE ITHOUSAND)        810.0        ..    1130.0                ..     500.0 /     540.0
LABCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE 121       60.0        ..      55.0                .        38.0      46.3 /
UNEMPLOYED It OF LABOR FORCE)         5.0        ..      10.0               ..         7.0       5.1
IFCCOE DISTRIBUTION
2 nF PRIVATE INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..      36.0/e               -       22.21b
HIGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        ..      67.0 7- . o3 
LCWEST  202 OF HOUSEHOLCS            ..        ..       2.0i               ..l
LOWEST  402 Of HOUSEHOLDS            .-        .-       7.5-a                       13 8
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
2 OWNED BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS         80.5        ..      78.0                         5 ..  '.5.0
X OWNtED BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS       0.3        ..       0.4                .         1LO0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
PDPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           4630.0 L5- 3920.0   3:50.0/               ..     1550.0     1620.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      140oo0.f/#  930.Q0   860.  0         6490.0     1210.0     160.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         410.0/1   500.0     490.0            4'30.0     320.0     250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES t3 OF REQUIREMENTS)       82.0      87.0        *-              97.0      109.0     110.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DY.)                      43.0        ..              59.0      61.0       63.0
-OF WHICH ANNIMAL AND PULSE        ..      10.0        ..              19.0      31.0       35.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4          17.5      11.1       7.11             24.4        7.5       4.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRINAAY SCHOOL                     79.0      78.0                        59.0      105.0     106.0
SECONDARtY SCHOOL                  11.0      23.0      13.j              10        41.0       28.0
YEARS OF SCHDOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)           11.0      12.0      12.0              12.0      12.0       11.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLNENT
IS OF SECONDARY)                   30.0      31.0       . 0f            150        32.0       10.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE tSI              51.0 /d   60.0      63.0 o             ..       8LO /c
HOUSItG
PERSONS PER ROOM IURBAN)               ..        ..       3.6                ..       1.8        1.1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (SI                      *-      84.0      74.0                ..      74.0 d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
I2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 ..        ..      34.0               ..       52.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY IYI                   ..        ..       7.0               .-       16.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)       e9.0      85.0       ..              115.0      157.0      71.0
PASSENGER CARS IPER THOU POP)         8.0      10.0      10.0              9.0       32.0       23.0
ELECTRICITY (KWMHYR PER CAPI         SS.0     190.0    254.0             153.0      585.0      594.0
NtEWSPRINT (ROIYR PER CAP)            1.9       3.7       3.4               1.6       4.0        6.4
SEE ItTE   6NO OEf INll---- - -R-------E
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON RvEVESE



QMYl1df A pages
lola..:,th;r,t.. -ot.d, data for 190 r.f.r to -ny yesr b.tvasa 1959 ansd 1961, far 1970 between 19168 mud 1970 sod f-r Host leRnt letieste between
19 7 3Sn 175.
C-st R1,:h.6..I,., *s.tda        0o3ctv        onr     or  l-iodrbecause both .... tri. esar Small. oP.. --oot.          d I   I    t ont agniwoltts*&
roo sd bot  ha.::':    ltrd      eato,hp      ,lhohe       sta    Aetorsia  c.untriss, yet th. Par tap-ir-too. ,i (&dSto Nice is subeLeetitllY
thor th- r Ihnth., of &I..Saios!d-  Cost. Ri.h.abes           xy good mtot of mcostoic grovth hbii.                -. ossuh hotler Una. everage,degree of
'*70    Li!llotoosit         .tftt*...
MIST KiCENTI 1.:.! MAIL:  /.  1971;    /b   1970.74;    LI  Ratio of popuistion .0.d, 15 and 65 end 0oor to octal labor foftoi
A. Pero... ag. of wonst  Ln fertle ags Sroop;      ti5o S..l5o1d-, iStcoS    tWlpp45ftel    aL   i972i
LBRD n.to etimate1         /hi Goosrodnmt *sti..L.t     /i   i-1.odlrg ttaditiofAmdi bsh attenidants.
/otI,kLAI,            9170     I..  1'*4t-4 1/;  (b  ic-lodio  .o..rtfg schools..
VcNofvs:              1970     (a  Io-iudt,,g -otd.ntm -oktio   In Canal Zot,et   lb  Icom. reciptent;      J,   L0 years end 00.;      Id  In.Ld,- -ty.
,USTA f;,A:            1970    I.  1463-70;    lb  Ratio of Ppoplstion onder 15 end 65 mud o..sr to tot1taleb., force.I     L. 1967.
RS J.oaaoy 27. 1977
Lend Ar.. (thou h1)                                                                    ousipornrricsro                 Population div1dsd by umeber ot protrIi-
Tot.l   Total .urf... or.. rusp,litis land ares mand IoIs.d -terem..io                         lendaegrds              mmrs:, "troica" or 'c.rrtfisd" -os..N
Attic.  M- o   r ....t marinatre of -g -ta        s- uased tsporarily or poest-         MWaud einiiary perselo with training or stcp.risnc.
nstIy for crop., past-re., market A. kitchen gardoes or to Its falow.                "    !:lRtgptp        bed - Popuiatisn divided by nibesr of hospital
a,.  a n pt  c aDprivet. general and specislisad hospital
"lP Per   .pslta (fil)  CWGP par capita estimates at totrrift earbat prices.            and rehabilitation camt5ro   excludes nursin   ha.w sd establishment.
catculated by na     ,oonv.r ion method as World lack Atlas (1975-75 basis);          for tutcodial and preventivu cars.
19460, 1970 and 1975 data.'Prcmt                                                                pnwo       .01        of poir       S )   Comuted foam
enegysquveeniofnecfod app ia avalabl     in scatry par
mujj.j.~ d "it lt imsiattc                                                        capita pair d4yi awalable aupplta. coriam     domstic prodrsction,
P.I Lcal - ~*. Aof July first! If not avsiiabl.,                                 ngPacca 1a9s -mparts, end chanS6to St-Rokg act su0plies...eold.
S-,.$ge of two ed-ymer ScLattec.: 1 960, 1970 sod 1975 date.                          matua  feed, seeda. qunctitle   Suend to foad prncessing   d losses.
to diatribution; requironute worm estinted by PAO braad on phys-
sisgicel needs for normal activity sod heelth conetderiog eovron-
population derreicy -  a outbe-Hd-year population per squaen bli-                       mentale to"recure    body sejght. ege and sa" distttibuttio     of pop..
mgetr 7100 hocteres)of rural area.                                                     Lation, end elloving 101 for waste at hoosehod lieml.
PoftI.tt!o.rdanafto- par seatae -. of anrir. lend - Computed a.stcov, for             Pa   qiesml         fyys      fr~    me D , 1  - protein content of P.,
spriroIt rl    adonlty.                                                               capite1 neLupyo        oo   a   a:     t supply of food to defined a
above, requiregmets for all cosotrtle establiebed by UR0A EconmIc
vital stattfticm                                                                        leaearch Servicee provido for a eLinin    allossoc  of 60 Sera   of total
Crude birth rate Per thousand. avarsis - Annual live births par thoussand               protein per day, end 20 arage of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
of eld-psar population; ten-year arithmetlc everegaa ending ix 1940 "Ad               Serm  shold be eimael protmts. these     tstanards ore tomr than those
1970. en   fioe-ymr vererge eeding in 1975 for awt recet sscimota.                    of 73 Sera   of total protein and 23 Serm   of nmbal protein     so wever-
Crods death rate set "ho::uacnd.9 Ur e- Anaoal deaths par thouesend of mid-             age for the world, proposed by FAA in the Third World FOod OurVa.
yes, popula:tion  ten.yar an       tic everagas andlng in 1960 cod 1970 and                                         -IN IamitR  sol,fo   enqan d eml  - Protein supply of food
floe-year sorcgesueding In 1975 for most recont aetinete.                             deie     rmiiseadple              in PM    per day.
Irtfaot mortalIty, rt  fi thop;  Anuldah        o  net     ider     peyear            0,gth .jgjg.tJol aajg.J4 on=,;         death  per thoaand in egs group 1-4.
o goprthouaodliv     Lirh. Ampearl tinats"                                          "   to ib[ldren  is iila  age group; sugaented as an mod,coetor of xal-
Lifte gxeca t,   birth (vre) - Average numbe. of years of life, remain-              utriton.
tgtbrt; oua"lly five-year &voragea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975
for dsoacoping countries.
Gr9as rssroduction rae e   Average number of ILve daughters a woman will                                 reh!t o   o 11t v schpol - turolCamt of all ages as
beer In her norma   raprod.otive period if che exporiaoces proamet aeg-               percentageo5a   mey cotag           popuistiom; includes children eged
apacific fertility rates; usually five-year cveragax ending in 1960,                  6-li year. bat adjusted for different lengths of prUmint education;
1970 sad 1915 for dm,*loping ourortisa.                                               for xo,itries with universal aduetion, enrollment mey excesed IOO0L
Popolt io xroth fee (~ - tCq  -Compound annual grooth rats. of mid-            simm  sam  pupil. ar. blobor a,hbm. the official school .$._
year populationfo    1930-01,9190- ,0 and 1970-73.                                  Adl t4   enspllanL[,t ratio -  2ron!a-  ,chool   Comuted ee ebove; sacond-
Populatin arooc  rece f5-ur~o- Cosputed like growth rtst  of itotl             ex   doein rmurm         t est four yearn of epprwvud primry Inatruc-
population; differmot definitioew of urban eraae way effect soWere-                   tiom; provides genera, ooetismai or teether training Iarrutcetios fow
bility of deta among countries.                                                       pupilsato 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coures erm generally
Urba 500 lat CIL7 ot to; .1) - Ratio of urban to total Populction;                   mld.
different dfiitima     o   rben areas cay affect comparability of date              1aug.gb~1             jg1gJl...iJyJ1-Total years of
amon  coundtrie.                                                                      sselo;te0rlv1,o;inlmcoto                                  may beperticlly
Agg...5nttre(o     Rcen  - hlrn(-14 years), working age (15-64 yomre),                  or xmpiotely excluded.
andrated(63yeas ad over) as percceteges of mid-ear population.                               .PMP h,fBiin f_ji..gamd&ry,) - vocetlatmel Institutions Include
A&     9Sq      r5J      Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to                 telia,ontrialorohe r progres whsioh oprate tndepondcoctly
thoeoa.      iSf    ogh   64.                                                         or as dparamnts of secoodery imetitutions.
997041 d! .   f".P      - .atio of population under 15 and 65 and ower          Adh1-n         r,4        - Litera.te edlte (able to read cad write) Am
to thailbI  orn.iiigegroup of 15-64 vears.                                      Doerctageo    tot. I dult population aged 15 yeare and mors.
socaptors of birth control lawicos under euaploss of  etioa  fmily
Planning Program since, inception.                                                   Yz*ij.uL        _!4g fg  - .Avrage numnber of persons par room in   occupied
Family olsomina -  er 7      faqp       wmn    - percentages of maried                   oe   ntiona   wlln.i urban areas; dwellins exclude non-parnmant
woan of child-bxearing ageo 7$-U   years) who us. birth-control devices               structures sod unoccupiad ports.
toal  arid wni       aaggroup.                                                0ccsidde"    liewxithout plned water I       - Occupied conventionel dw*II-
inge inu-     an   ruralI oreAm sithoutcl itds or autaide pipod woe,e
ENPI-Vmo.t                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~facilities en perceocas. of all occupied demllings.
Total labor forts (thoueendl - tccaonically active Duteoson, Inoluding                Acest;lcri          t  Cof I11 dwalincs) - Conventional duellindga .itb
arosad foaces. end aomMloysd but excluding houaawivea, atudents, etc..:                 wecI  icy in   iin   quarters es psrcet of total dwesllings In urban
definIttiona in various countries stea sot nonprarbie.                                and rural etme.
Labor forceinarc       rst7     - Agriculturel labor force (in farming,               lut:~        oncc           oelectriocity Ml   - CamPut*4 as above for rural
hoeer .  -,,in      e   g  as p-artsnt.e of totot labor force.
1MiJ..lId..LJLA~LHSI   -bUneployed mren usualy defined as pareson
who are ablansd willing to tens a job, oortof a job on      gi"en dmy,
remained out of a job, mad asskixg work for a specified minimu                      N   0   w     vr(pr   thy     ) - All types of re-caiwre for radio broad-
period no t  xc`ading one weak; "sY not be coparabl. betweom countries                canto to goersl p.blit par thoueand of population; axcudas tsr-
due to different defLnitina of unemploydcand snort      of data, e.g.,                licaneed receivers in countries end la yeers wham registration of
emP,oyment otffico atacIstcics  .-samI. s-veys                                         - yuemlyetrdio sets woe L. affect; data for roent Tests may not he camp .rabl.
insuranc.                                                                             ance neoot corartria cbolixh.d licanaing.
Pmsasnprtsr co f,ee  thou copol - Passenger cars conpriss motor cr    sea...t-
jocg    i:yrIbut14_- Percentage of private, income (both in cash ond                    Lng le    thn eigt pesn.;       r eseudoosabulances, hesres mand
k,i)dr     oed     ricest 5%.* richest 201, pemmres  10, mand poormat                 military vshicles.
4.01 of households.                                                                 il                               n"     consutmption of industrial1* cante-
cial7,public end prlvta sloctric ity in kllowstt hours par capita;
Dletribution of loand onwertoi  - Pmroxotogxs of land ound by westch-                    generally based on production date, without .1awlocant for losses in
last 101 and p-oore   1  1 o  mlad owner.                                             grids but allowing for tIp-ar and emports of electricity.
Nweormnt (killer per cap) - Par cmpire mousua   csumptIon tn kioWamste
l1i2in         ~rt4op                                                                    estimated from domstic production plus not imPorte of nsvePrint.
IN"11"        .:t,,tII    - Population  divdedby orab:r of pccctioing
Phy. LtaL...   elifillr      mdcL shlat univsrcty level.



ANNEX I
EL SALVADOR                             Page 3 of a
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(In million of US dollars)
Average Annual
Actual          Pro ection    Growth Rate          As percentago of GDY
1970     1973     1975       I980    1970-75   1975-80       79 1975      190
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   Amounts in 1967-69 prices and exchange rate
Gross domestic product                   977.8  1,127.0  1,261.3   1,653.4      5.2        5.6       97.5     98.2     95.8
Gains from the term of trade             25.1    32.7      22.7      73.1       -          -         2.5      1.8      4.2
Gross domestic inccme                 1,002.9  1,159.7  1,284.0   1,726.5      5.1        6.1      100.0    100.0    100.0
Lports                                  243.7   341.9    370.0      509.5      8.7        6.6       24.3     28.8     29.5
Exports (import capacity)                246.8   309.4     321.6     455.7       5.4       7.2       24.6     25.0     26.4
Resource gap                              -3.1    32.5      48.4      53.8       -          -        - 0.3     3.8      3.1
Consumption                              863.0 1,012.8   1,081.1   1,430.6      4.6        5.3       86.1     84.2     82.9
Investment                              136.8    179.4     251.3     349.7     12.9        6.8       13.6     19.6     20.2
Domestic savings                         139.9   146.9     202.9     295.9       7.0       7.8       13.9     15.8     17.1
National savings                        145.1    147.3    201.9      294.8      6.8        7.9       14.5     15.7     17.1
MERCHANDISE TRADE                         Annual data at current prices                                As percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                           37.8     71.0     118.9     242.0     25.8       15.3       17.6     19.8     21.5
Petroleum, oil, lubricants                4.8    21.4      59.8     102.2      65.6      11.3         2.2    10.0      9.1
Other intermediates                     100.5   180.2     294.1     552.5      24.0      13.4       47.0     48.9     49.1
Consumption goods                        71.1   101.3    127.8      227.7     12.4       12.3       33.2     21.3     20.3
Total merchandise imports (cif)         214.2   373.9     600.6   1,124.4     22.9       13.4      100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products                        181.6   245.0     371.8     665.7     15.4       12.3       70.9     69.7     64.9
Manufactured goods                       74.6   115.6     161.8     359.9     16.7       17.3       29.1     30.3     35.1
Total merchandise exports (fob)         256.2   360.6     533.6   1,025.6      15.6      14.0      100.0    100.0    100.0
1967-69 - 100
Merchandise trade indices
Export price index                      117.1   146.9     200.4     310.1      11.3       9.1          -       -        -
LIport price, index                     104.2   129.7     184.7     253.6     12.1        6.5
Terms of trade index                    112.4   113.3     108.5     122.3        -         -
Export volume index                      97.3   118.4     128.5     159.6       5.7       4.4          -       -        -
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                      Annual data at 1967-69 prices
Agriculture                              265.0   284.0     321.6     400.1      4.0        4.5        27.1    25.5     24.2
Industry                                 216.1   257.0    291.4      393.5      6.2        6.2       22.1     23.1     23.8
Services                                 496.7   586.0     648.3     859.8      5.5        5.8       50.8     51.4     52.0
Total                                   977.8 1,127.0   1,261.3   1,653.4      5.2        5.6      100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                             Annual data at 1967-69 prices                                As percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current receipts                         107.6   136.4    155.1      233.1      7.6        8.5       11.0     12.3    14.1
Curetntrxpqenditures                     92.9    110.5    123.6      173.6      5.9        7.0        .5       9.8     10.8
Budgetary savings                          .7    7         31.5         5      16.5       13.6                 2.5     15
Other public sector                       16.6    24.8      18.9      39.7       2.6      16.2         1.7     1.5      2.4
Public sector fixed investment           23.5     48.5      76.9     124.0     26.8       10.0        2.4      6.1      7.5
DETAIL ON PUBLIC FIXED INVESTMENT                       1967-69 prices         SELECTED INDICATCRS  1265-73 1973-75 1975-80
1Z:1-75 Tof total              ICOR                   3.11    2.93     3.67
Social sector                                     77.12.                        Import elasticity     1.08    1.03     1.08
Agriculture                                       19.5           7.3           Aver. Nat. Sav. rate   0.13    0.14     0.17
Power                                             73.0          27.3           Marginal Nat. Sav.rate  0.10   0.47     0.18
Transport and telecommuiications                  59.4          22.2
Other                                             38.5           44
70;L fixed investment                            267.          lo.o
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER W(RKER                       Labor Force                          Value added per worker ( 1967-69 prices )
In thousands        % of total         9l-7In                           o average       5961-71
196       9       1961      1971   ,Grovth rate     1961    1971     i961    191      Growth rate
Agriculture               4.2                     =-.I     052      --2                      90    .   2     '2771      .8          7*2
Manufacturing and construction          137.2    176.9     17.0      15.6         2.6       823    1,311     113.5    145.3       4.8
Services                                 183.7   332.6      22.8     29.7         6.1     1 534    1,552     211.6    172.1       0.1
T=OtarlT gT                                                                      Ft I219           90- lo n5 eW T lo 



EL SALVADOk2                                                ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PATIENRS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                            Page b of 4
(In million of US dollars at current prices
Actual              Prolectad
1970    1973       1975       1960    1985
SlUOAhY BAlANCE OF PAYDENTS
Exports (including NIS)                 257.0   401.2     594.2    1,168.5    2,030.4
I. uprIs (inolud  BiFS _ 
Resource balance  -H)                               1     -69.
Interest (net)                          -2.2     -3.6     -15.0      -17.3     -66.3
Direct investment income                -6.6     -9.5     -11.4      -26.2     -50.0
Workers remittance                         -       -
Current transfers (ntl                   14.3    13.6      27.4       40.0      66.4
Balance on current account c                    -41.      -t         -         4
Private direct investment                3.7      8.3      11.5       30.0      53.8
Public metium and long-term loans
Disbursements                            9.3    26.4      81.5      139.3      455.5
-Repayments                             -5.9   -16.7      -47.5      -24.0     -50.9
Net disbursements                       fl      3¶b7     II!1                 4W
Gapt.al transactions n.e.i.             -0.8      3.4      94.2
Change in reserves (-increase)          -15.0    20.2     -48.1       -3.8     -46.4
Actual
LCa  COPIXmENTS  1/                                                                       DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE               lY7 19(  1775
Pedium and long-term loans                                                                Public debt outs. & disb.     87.7  313.3    182.9
IHRD                                     -      27.3       -                              (end of year)
IDA                                      -        -        _                             Interest on public debt        3.5    4.5      7.4
IDB                                      -       6.6      35.6                           Repayment on public debt       5.9   16.7     47.5
ZABEI                                   4.6     12.0      15.0                           Total public debt service      9.4   21.2     54,?
Governments                             6.7      6.5      19.2
Suppliers                                 -       -         -                            Burden on exports (S)
Private banks                           1.1      o.8      b7.0
Bondc_ -                                          -         _                            Public debt service            3.7    5.3      '.2
Loans n.e.i.                              -       -                                      DS S  investment increase      6.2    7.7     11.2
Total medium and long-term loans        lfl       7      11
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT           Preliminary Estimate of Debt Outstanding as of Dec. 31,1976  IntAas g  prior year iO & D  4.1   4.1      4.1
Disbursed only       Percent                         Amort.a8 % prior year DO & D   6.8   15.3     26.1
IB, D                                  I,2.9               g T
IDA                                    18.1                6.7                         I8RD debt outs. & disb.        2h.8   23.8     41.0
IDB                                    13.1                4.8                          IBRD as % of public debt outs. 28.3  21.0     22.4
CAREE                                  30.4               11.2                          IBRD as % of public debt serv. 37.9   19.4     7.8
Governments                            96.2               35.3
Private banks                          64.7               23.8                         IDA debt outs. & disb.          8.0   15.8     16.6
Bonds                                   0.5                0.2                          IDA as % public debt outst.    9.1   13.9      9.1
Total public debt                     277                100.0                         IDA as % public debt service    o.6    1.1      0.5
1   Exclude loans repayable in local currency,
2/ In 1975 the debt service ratio was unusuaIly high as a consequence of prepayment of oommercial l wsna contracted in 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EL SALVADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of April 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                               US$ million
Credit                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower                Purpose              Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven fully disbursed loans and credits                       57.6   13.6       -
811      1972   ANTEL                    Communications       9.5       -     2.0
889      1973   COMISION DEL RIO LEMPA   Power                27.3      -     3.3
1007      1974   Government               Education            17.0      -    14.4
517      1974   Government               Sites and Services     -     6.0     3.1
1050      1974   Government               Sites and Services   2.5      -      2.5
1288      1976   COMISION DEL RIO LEMPA   Power               30.0       -    29.9
1289T     1976   Government               Power                9.0       -     9.0
152.9   19.6    64.2
Of which has been repaid                            40.0    0.5
Total now outstanding                              112.9    19.1       -
Amount sold                         4.1
of which has been repaid          3.9              0.2      -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     112.7   19.1     64.2
Total undisbursed                                      -      -     64.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of April 30, 1977)
Amount in $ million
Year     Obligor                                      Loan     Equity     Total
1959     Industrias Textiles S.A.                     0.14                 0.14
1969     Hoteles de Centro America, S.A.              0.60      0.33       0.93
Total                                   0.74      0.33       1.07
less sold, cancelled or repaid          0.36      0.10       0.46
Now held                                0.38      0.23       0.61



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln. 811         Second Telecommunications Project; US$9.5 Million Loan of
April 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been signed; goods
are being received at installation sites. Some of the project
works have already been completed and equipment has been brought
into use. Due to initial delays in procurement, a slippage of
about 18 months in the project's original completion date
(December 31, 1975) is anticipated.
Ln. 889        Sixth Power Project; US$27.3 Million Loan of April 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 10, 1973; Closing Date: April 30,
1978.
The project is expected to be completed on schedule (June 1977),
except for the effluent discharge canal to the Pacific, which
is about two years behind schedule. Project costs are now
estimated at US$125.9 million, 28.9 percent above the appraisal
estimate, as a result of world wide inflation and additional
costs for construction of the geothermal effluent discharge
canal arising mainly from the poor performance of local con-
struction contractors. CEL is borrowing $10.3 million from the
Venezuelan Investment Fund (FIV) to help it meet the cost
overruns of the first geothermal unit and the Cerron Grande
Project. Pending completion of the discharge canal to the
Pacific, output from the 30 MW geothermal plant at Ahuachapan
has been restricted so as not to exceed agreed upon limits of
boron and arsenic in the waters of the Paz River.
Ln. 1007        Second Education Project; US$17 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: October 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
After initial delays in implementation due mainly to poor
programming and planning, the project is now showing
progress in all aspects. About half of all project build-
ings are either completed or under construction; civil works
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this context, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
bids are being reviewed for another one-sixth of the project
buildings, with the remainder in the planning stage. Bids for
supply of furniture and equipment for the first three of eight
phases of the project were evaluated and awarded in December
1976. It is expected that the project will be completed with
about a two-year delay by December 1980.
Ln. 1050        Sites and Services Project; US$6.0 Million Credit and US$2.5
Cr. 517        Million Loan of November 4, 1974; Effective Date:    February 3,
1975; Closing Dates: March 31, 1981 (Credit) and May 31, 1981
(Loan).
The status of this project is discussed in paragraphs 31-35
of this Report.
Ln. 1288        Seventh Power Project; US$30.0 Million Loan and US$9.0 Million
1289T      Third Window Loan of July 28, 1976; Effective Date:    October 28,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is on schedule. Contract award recom-
mendation for the first contract (substation transformers) as
well as prequalification documents for suppliers of the turbo-
generator were approved by the Bank in January 1977. CEL's
planning department was recently organized with full staffing
of the department expected by mid-1978. CEL's asset revalua-
tion study was completed in December 1976, on schedule, and
is presently under review in the Bank. Terms of reference for
the required tariff study have recently been reviewed by the
Bank; completion of the tariff study is expected by December 31,
1977. The geothermal studies are proceeding on schedule, and
a report on the Berlin geothermal field is expected to be com-
pleted by November 30, 1977.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
EL SALVADOR
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation
(i)  Identification                           February 1976
(ii)  Preparation                              April 1976
(b) Project Preparation Agencies
(i) Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo
y Vivienda Minima (FSDVM)
(ii) Federacion de Cajas de Credito
(FEDECCREDITO)
(iii) Direccion General de Fomento y
Cooperacion Comunal (FOCCO)
(iv) Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU)
(c)  Preappraisal Mission Departure                June 6, 1976
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure                   August 29, 1976
(e)  Completion of Negotiations                    March 11, 1977
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned                    September 30,1977
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Action
Special Bank activity in implementing this project is:
Monitoring, with FSDVM, the progress being made in the con-
struction of the Zona Norte water supply scheme
(paragraph 49).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Section III:   Special Conditions
1.   The Bank has obtained assurances from the Government that:
(a) FSDVM's first and second project sites in San Salvador will
receive preference by the water authority (ANDA) in the supply
of water to be delivered under the Zona Norte water supply
scheme or other programs (paragraph 34);
(b) The water contingency plan is to be initiated by FSDVM at the
end of 1977, if progress in the development of the Zona Norte
water supply scheme or other supply schemes is such that water
will not be available to meet the needs of FSDVM sites in San
Salvador (the costs of the water contingency plan are to be
charged to and recovered by ANDA) (paragraph 49); and
(c) Educational facilities included in the project will be made
available for purposes of adult training when not in use by
the regular school program; teachers for grades one through
six will attend in-service training courses provided under
the Bank's Second Education Project (paragraph 47); and
(d) The Government will, if necessary, acquire not less than
60 ha. of land in the San Salvador metropolitan area
by December 31, 1977 (paragraph 35).
2.   The Bank has obtained assurances from FSDVM that:
The borrowing terms for households will be 6.4 percent interest
for both mortgages and construction loans with up to 20 years
for repayment (paragraph 53).
3.   The Bank has obtained assurances from IVU that:
The borrowing terms to households will be 6.4 percent interest
and 20 years for repayment (paragraph 63).
4.   The Bank has obtained assurances from FEDECCREDITO that:
(a) the borrowing terms under the small informal business credit
program will be 15 percent annual interest with a repayment
period of up to 2 years for working capital, 5 years for
equipment, and 12 years for construction loans; a maximum
grace period of 6 months is to be offered for working capital
loans and 12 months for the other two categories of loans
(paragraph 67); and



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(b) By May 30, 1978, a report will be furnished to the Bank cover-
ing the performance of the small informal business credit
program (paragraph 68).
5.   Conditions of Effectiveness will be that:
The subsidiary agreement between the Government and FSDVM has
been duly executed (paragraph 83).
6.   Conditions of Disbursement will be that:
(a) The subsidiary agreements between the Government and IVU and
the Government and FEDECCREDITO have been duly executed
(paragraph 83);
(b)  A project unit has been created in IVU and the unit chief and
key staff members have been appointed (paragraphs 64 and 83);
and
(c) A new department has been created in FEDECCREDITO, and the
department head and key staff members have been appointed
(paragraphs 70 and 83).



F'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
V~~  ~    ~~j U  L  w1-6@ [1ltl! 2G                                       EL SALVADO-J
AC  A PA N,-' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ PAII
Mai roads                                {                              }
u    l               p                 0FAtj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA
Poved                                      .....r n   b
Roiiroads ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ T-h.                                  P.oi
- - Inter na tional boundarzi es  0  10  20  30  40  50
3                                   K I EO M E T E RCS  >- 0
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
A H A C AP A N,        I I&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0    lo   20    30 
MILES                                                    ir
90'00'   89'45'    89-30'   e9' 15    09'00'   88-u'     tn30'     881S     se nno    57 )5'  )  _
1.  _   I    I   _    I         I        t         I~~~~~~~tU              I  I  N



