CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 726 ES
LOAN NUMBER 1465 ES
Project Agreement
(Second Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FUNDACION SALVADORENA DE
DESARROLLO Y VIVIENDA MINIMA
Dated July 28, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and FUNDACION SALVADORENA DE DESARROLLO
Y VIVIENDA MINIMA (hereinafter called FSDVM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of El Salvador (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the. Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Credit), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
FSDVM agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to six
million seven hundred thousand dollars ($6,700,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that FSDVM agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(C)   by a subsidiary lending agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and FSDVM, part of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan will be made available to FSDVM for purposes of
the carrying cut of Parts A.1 through A.4, A.7, D.1 and D.2 of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the said Development Credit
Agreement (hereinafter called the Project); and
WHEREAS FSDVM, in consideration of the foregoing has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿-2-
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. FSDVM shall, subject to the availability of the
funds that the Borrower has undertaken to make available to FSDVM
for this purpose pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement, carcy out Parts A.1 through A.4, A.7, D.1 and
D.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices, in accordance with the Policies set forth in the
Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by the Association, the Bank and FSDVM.
Section 2.02. (a) FSDVM shall construct the trunk water
and sewerage systems and the water supply facilities included in
Part A of the Project.
(b)  FSDVM shall obtain the approval of ANDA regarding the
designs and tender specifications for the facilities referred to
in (a) above; and
(c) FSDVM shall transfer the facilities referred to in
(a) above, upon completion, to ANDA.
Section 2.03. For purposes of assigning the lots included
in Part A of the Project, FSDVM shall establish and maintain
a Selection Committee composed of its Executive Director and four
members of FSDVM staff.
Section 2.04. Unless the Association and the Bank agree
otherwise, loans under Part A of the Project shall include
the following terms: repayment within 20 years, including 6
months of grace; and interest at a rate of not less than 6.4% per
annum on outstanding amounts, provided, however, that if Fondo
Social para la Vivienda or IVU increase their existing minimum
rates of interest on loans secured by mortgages, FSDVM shall
increase the above mentioned rate to at least the same rate.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for
civil works for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of


﻿- 3-
the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) FSDVM undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
the Parts of the Project it shall carry out to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by FSDVM to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, FSDVM
shall.cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit or the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) FSDVM shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material
modification thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) FSDVM: (i) shall maintain records adequate to reflect
the progress and cost of the Parts of the Project it shall carry
out and to identify the goods and services for said Parts of the
Project financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the representatives of the
Association and the Bank to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the said goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank all such information as the Association and the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit or Loan so relent to it and the said goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) FSDVM shall enable the representatives of the Associa-
tion and the Bank to examine all installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of FSDVM and any relevant
records and documents.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) FSDVM shall, at the request of the
Association and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A, D.1 and D.2 of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Lending Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)   FSDVM shall promptly inform the Association and the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of Parts A, D.1 and D.2 of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and Loan, or the
performance by FSDVM of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Lending Agreement.
Section 2.09. FSDVM shall acquire, as and when needed, all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the carrying out of Part A of the Project, and, upon request,
shall furnish to the Association and the Bank evidence satisfac-
tory to them regarding such acquisition.
Section 2.10. FSDVM shall prepare quarterly reports on the
progress of the Parts of the Project it has undertaken to carry
out, and shall submit them within 3 weeks of the end of the
reporting period simultaneously to the Borrower, through the
Project Coordinating Committee, the Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FSDVM
Section 3.01. FSDVM shall at all times continue to conduct
its operations and affairs under competent and efficient
management.
Section 3.02. FSDVM shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and franchises
which are necessary or useful for carrying out its obligations
hereunder.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, FSDVM shall not undertake, before the completion
of Part A of the Project, any serviced site or improvement project
ith. ggregate of the prijects under execution (other than
the Project and the project described in the First Credit
Ag:eemen') would at any time include more than 1,000 urban lots.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. FSDVM shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and,
separately, its operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project.
Section 4.02. FSDVM shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of incom    and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of sorh
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as ,ae
Association and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
FSDVM and the audit thereof as the Association and the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Bank and of FSDVK thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; u:
(ii)  a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿-6-
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank shall
promptly notify FSDVM of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agroement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Bank:
International Development Association
and
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
INTBAFRAD                           248423 (RCA) or
Washington, D.C.                     64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For FSDVM:
Fundaci6n Salvadorefia de
Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima
18 Avenida Norte 633
San Salvador
El Salvador
Cable address:
FUNDASAL
San Salvador
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of FSDVM may be taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as FSDVM shall designate
in writing.
Section 6.03. FSDVM shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
FSDVM, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by FSDVM pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. All action taken by, and any notice given to
either the Association or the Bank pursuant to this Agreement
shall, unless the agreement shall require otherwise, be deemed to
be taken by or given to both the Bank and the Association.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FUNDACION SALVADORENA DE
DESARROLLO Y VIVIENDA MINIMA
By /s/ Francisco Bertrand Galindo
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Part A of the Project: Policies
A.   Allocation of Lots
1.   Information concerning the availability of lots shall be
disseminated by FSDVM, prior to the completion of said lots,
through the mass media, public meetings or other appropriate
means.
2.   FSDVM shall assign said lots, in accordance with the fol-
lowing criteria: (a) residency in unserviced squatter settlements
or inadequate housing conditions for two or more years; (b) a per
capita monthly income of the household of not more than fifty
colones (450) or household aggregate monthly income of not more
than three hundred colones (4300) in 1977, and not more than
seventy colones (470) and not more than four hundred colones
(4400), respectively, in 1978 and thereafter, or such other
amounts as the Association, the Bank and FSDVM shall agree from
time to time; (c) intention to live in the assigned lot; and (d)
willingness to participate in the Project, provided that (a) and
(b) shall not apply to Units at Service Level D. If the households
which meet the above criteria exceed the number of lots available
by at least 25%, then the final selection shall be made by lottery
in combination with additional screening of incomes. The final
list of allottees shall be confirmed by the Selection Committee.
3.   Not less than 95% of the lots shall be transferred to
allottees through the following alternatives: (a) tenant purchase,
or (b) freehold sale with mortgages, or (c) cooperative ownership.
Allottees shall be required to make a minimum down payment of
10% of the price of the lots either in cash or through mutual
help labor credits not later than four months after the date of
the contract by which the transfer is made. For the purpose of
this paragraph "mutual help labor credits" means credits given
by FSDVM to allottees for work performed on site infrastructure
or superstructure prior to the sale or lease of the lots.
4.   Not more than 5% of the lots may be rented on the basis of
renewable leases up to a maximum of 20 years.
5. Allottees shall start construction of extensions or
partitions not later than twenty-four months after the date of
lot occupancy.


﻿- 10 -
6.   Whenever an allottee does not make the down payment or does
not start construction of self-help extensions or partitions
within the period of time specified in paragraph 5, FSDVM shall
be entitled to reallot the lot of such allottee.
B.   Construction Credit or Loan
Loans and credits (in cash or otherwise) in amounts of up
to 0650, or such other amount as the Association, the Bank, and
FSDVM shall agree from time to time, may be extended for
construction, completion and expansion of construction.
C.   Pricing
1.   Beneficiaries shall be charged at least the full costs of
land, on-site infrastructure, core units, water meters and
connections, materials loans (if any), administration, interim
interest, insurance where applicable, maintenance, collection, and
a surcharge to cover risk. Such charges may incorporate cross-
subsidies between service levels.
2.   FSDVM, upon transferring a mortgage to Fondo Social para la
Vivienda or any other purchaser, will advise the Bank of such
transfer and provide such detail as the Bank may require regarding
the pricing of such mortgages.
D.   Other Sales
FSDVM may sell the lots to Fondo Social para la Vivienda
or Instituto Nacional de Previsi6n de los Empleados Pfiblicos,
for the purpose of their selling said lots to contributors
thereto who meet the requirements hereinabove set forth. The
proceeds of all such sales, and of the sale of any mortgage
on the lots included in the Project, will be subject to the
provisions of Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement.


