CONFORNED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 726 ES
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 28, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by making available the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the
Bank) to provide additional assistance toward the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an amount equiva-
lent to six million seven hundred thousand dollars ($6,700,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan);
(C)   the Project will partly be carried out by (i) Fundaci6n
Salvadoreffa de Desarrollo y Vivienda Minima (hereinafter
called FSDVM), a private foundation established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower; (ii) Instituto de Vivienda Urbana
(hereinafter called IVU), an agency of the Borrower; and (iii)
Federaci6n de Cajas de Cr6dito (hereinafter called FEDEC-
CREDITO), a cooperative established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower;
(D) the Borrower will render its assistance to the entities
mentioned in (C) above and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to each of such entities part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(E) the Borrower and the Association intend that, to the
extent practicable, the proceeds of the Credit be disbursed
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan be commenced;
(F) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Bank and FSDVM (hereinafter called the Project
Agreement), FSDVM has undertaken certain obligations regarding
its participation in the carrying out of the Project; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to make available the Credit to the Bor-
rower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Loan Agreement and in the Preamble to
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FSDVM Subsidiary Lending Agreement", "IVU Subsidiary
Lending Agreement" and "FEDECCREDITO Subsidiary Lending Agreement"
mean the agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and
FSDVM, IVU and FEDECCREDITO, respectively, pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as such agreements may be amended from
time to time;
(b) "First Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit
Agreement (Sites and Services Project) between the Borrower
and the Association, dated November 4, 1974, as amended; "First
Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Sites and Services
Project) between the Borrower and the Bank, dated November 4,
1974, as amended; and "First Project Agreement" means the Project
Agreement (Sites and Services Project) between the Bank and the
Association and FSDVM, dated November 4, 1974, as amended;
(c) "ANDA" means Administraci6n Nacional de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados, an agency of the Borrower;
(d) "FNV" means Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda, an
agency of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(e)   "Project Coordinating Committee" means the Committee
referred to in Section 3.03 hereof;
(f)   "Special Fund" means the fund referred to in Section
3.05 hereof;
(g)   "Colones" and the symbol ""' mean colones in the
currency of the Borrower;
(h)   "Community Association" means the association of
household members of the "22 de Abril" settlement; and
(i)   "Revolving Fund Account" mearis the account to be
established pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
f-:m the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sc'.edule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchaoe of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 hereto.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1981
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year,
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1987, and ending November 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installmnt payable
on November 1, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Seccion 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. FSDVM, IVU and FEDECCREDITO are designated
as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of signing
withdrawal applications in respect of expenditures for Parts A,
D.1 and D.2; Part B; and Parts C and D.3 of the Project, respec-
tively, and in respect of expenditures for advisory services
rendered to FSDVM, IVU and FEDECCREDITO, respectively, under Part
D.4 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.5 and
A.6 of the Project and shall cause the Project to be carried
out (shall cause FSDVM, IVU, and FEDECCREDITO to participate in
the carrying out of Parts A, D.1 and D.2; Part B; and Parts C and
D.3 of the Project, respectively) with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and architectural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Part D.2 (a) of the Project shall be carried out only if
the Borrower, the Bank and FSDVM shall agree on the desirability
of undertaking such evaluation.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend part of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan to FSDVM, IVU and
FEDECCREDITO, for purposes of the carrying out of Parts A and D.2;
Part B; and Parts C and D.3 of the Project, as specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, under subsidiary lending agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and each of such entities,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause FSDVM, IVU and FEDECCREDITO
punctually to perform their respective obligations under said
agreements, and shall cause FSDVM punctually to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement, and shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable each of them to perform such obligations, and shall.
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Subsidiary Lending Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, waive,
fail to enforce or abrogate any provision thereof.
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 hereof or the preceding paragraphs of this Section,
the Borrower shall, in addition to the aforementioned amounts,
transfer: (i) to FSDVM, such amounts (currently estimated at the
equivalent in Colones of $685,000) as there shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account for purposes of
constructing the trunk infrastructure required for Part A of the
Project; and the equivalent in Colones of $15,000 for purposes of
Part D.4 of the Project; (ii) to IVU, the equivalent in Colones of
about $2,840,000 for purposes of financing the acquisition of
land for Part A of the Project; and the equivalent in Colones of
$5,000 for purposes of Part D.4 of the Project; and (iii) to
FEDECCREDITO, the equivalent in Colones of $75,000 for purposes of
Parts D.3 and D.4 of the Project and the equivalent in Colones of
$1,600,000 for purposes of Part C.1 of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain, until the completion of the Project, the
Project Coordinating Committee established pursuant to Section
3.02 of the First Credit Agreement;


﻿-6-
(b) expand, not later than September 30, 1977, such Commit-
tee's composition to include one representative each of IVU
and FEDECCREDITO; and cause it to be chaired by a high ranking
official of the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Coordination
of Economic and Social Development;
(c) expand such Committee's function to coordinate the
carrying out of the Project by the agencies of the Borrower
and other entities represented in such Committee, vesting it with
adequate powers to take such action as shall be required to ensure
the timely execution of the Project; and
(d) cause such Committee to prepare quarterly reports on
the progress of the Project, and to furnish them to the Associa-
tion promptly after the end of each quarter.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain,
under arrangem\nts satisfactory to the Association, a special
account (hereinafter called the Revolving Fund Account) into which
there shall be made the deposits referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of
Schedule 1 hereto, and from which the Borrower, through FSDVM,
shall make withdrawals for expenditures for civil works included
in Part A of the Project eligible to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain and cause FNV to continue to operate the
Special Fund. established pursuant to Section 3.03 of the First
Credit Agreement;
(b) cause such Special Fund to be credited with such amounts
as the Borrower shall receive from FSDVM, IVU and FEDECCREDITO
pursuant to their respective Subsidiary Lending Agreements and
which are not required by the Borrower to service its financial
obligations under this Agreement or under the Loan Agreement;
and
(c) cause FNV to use the amounts so credited to the Special
Fund exclusively for the purpose of financing sites and services
projects for low income families similar to those included in the
Project, provided that all amounts repaid by FSDVM on account of
sale of lots included in Part A of the Project before the date on
which such repayments are due pursuant to the original amortiza-
tion schedule included in the FSDVM Subsidiary Lending Agreement,


﻿-7-
shall be available for such purpose only to FSDVM or any other
such institution as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause FSDVM to acquire, or, if necessary, cause IVU
to acquire, as and when needed for the timely carrying out of the
Project, all the land and rights in respect thereof needed for the
purpose, and furnish to the Association, if the Association shall
so require, evidence satisfactory to the Association regarding
such acquisition;
(b) cause IVU timely to transfer to FSDVM, for purposes
of carrying out Part A of the Project, all the land acquired or
to be acquired by IVU for such purposes, if any, and to charge
FSDVM a price not exceeding the acquisition cost plus interest on
the unpaid part of the price; and
(c) without limitation or restriction upon the preceding
provisions, acquire on or before December 31, 1977 not less
than 57 hectares of land in the San Salvador metropolitan area
for purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.07. Part A of the Project shall be carried out
in locations agreed upon by the Borrower, FSDVM and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause ANDA to give preference in its supply of water to
all the sites included either in the Project or in the project
described in Schedule 2 to the First Credit Agreement; and the
Borrower shall, by September 30, 1977, make arrangements with ANDA
providing for such preference for such s,tpply of water;
(b) report to the Bank, every three months, on the progress
made regarding compliance with the preceding provision, in such
detail as the Association shall resonably request; and
(c) if, on or before December 31, 1977, progress on the
works to supply water to such sites (out of the water obtained
from Stage I of ANDA's Zona Norte Phase I Program or any other
suitable source, in the case of sites in San Salvador) is, in the
opinion of the Association, after consultation with the Borrower,
inadequate to assure timely water supply to such sites, cause


﻿-8-
FSDVM to carry out a program of well drilling to supply water to
such sites until completion of such works, and cause ANDA to
maintain and operate such wells.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause IVU:
(a) to establish and maintain a special unit exclusively
responsible for the detailed design and carrying out of Part
B of the Project;
(b) apply, and collect, such charges to the beneficiaries of
the program included in Part B of the Project, as shall be re-
quired to recover the cost of such program within 20 years, with-
out a grace period, including interest at the annual rate of 6.4%
on such cost; provided, however, that if IVU or any other lender
for housing increases its rates of interest for loans for similar
purposes to boLrowers of similar income levels, such charges shall
be readjusted to take account of such higher levels; and
(c) except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance
with the Policies set  orth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.10. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause FEDECCREDITO:
(a) to establish and maintain an Urban Credit Department
and vest in it the responsibility for carrying out Part C.1 of
the Project;
(b) to appoint, by September 30, 1977, the Director and key
staff of such Department;
(c) to select the beneficiaries of the credit program
included in Part C.1 of the Project on the basis of viability of
the proposed use of the Credit and of need;
(d) to apply the following terms to the credit program
included in Part C.1 of the Project: (i) loans for working
capital: repayment within 1 to 2 years with not more than 6
months of grace; amount: up to 06,000; (ii) loan for purchase
of tools or equipment: repayment within 1 to 5 years with not
more than 1 year of grace; amount: up to 06,000; (iii) loans
for workshop construction or improvement: repayment within 2 to 12
years, with not more than 1 year of grace; amount: up to 06,000,


﻿-9-
or in the case of a cooperative, firm or grupo solidario (coopera-
tives under organization) up to 012,000; and (iv) rates of
interest for all the preceding: 1.5% per annum on outstanding
amounts;
(e) to pay interest, at a rate of not less than the rate
paid by commercial banks on savings deposits, on the savings
deposits maintained by FEDECCREDITO's beneficiaries under the
urban credit program included in Part C.1 of the Project; and
(f) to furnish to the Bank, by such date as the Association
and FEDECCREDITO shall agree, a detailed report on the programs
included in Part C of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, and shall cause
FEDECCREDITO to, exchange views with the Association on the
cost of and other matters relating to the credit program included
in Part C.1 of the Project, and make such adjustments thereto,
by July 31, 1978 or such later date as the Association shall
agree, as the Association shall reasonably request to ensure
the financial viability of the program and its efficient carrying
out.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1977,
adequately staff FEDECCREDITO's Training and Supervision Section
with competent personnel, as required to carry out Part C.2 of the
Project.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall, not later than April 30,
1978 or such other date as the Association shall agree, take
all action necessary to establish the Community Association as a
legal entity, and to enable such Community Association to function
pursuant to its purposes.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, budgets, reports, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect the progress and cost of
the Project and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the


﻿- 10
Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.15. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 30, 1977, furnish to the
Association, for its comment, the prototype designs for the
schools included in the Project;
(b) notify the Association, not later than September 30,
1977, of the responsible officer of the Borrower's Ministry of
Education who will be responsible for the overall supervision
and coordination of the construction of such schools; and
(c) as and when needed for purposes of the Project, furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association, for comments,
information regarding the specific location, designs and number of
student places proposed for each of such schools.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain, operate and staff,
or cause to be maintained, operated and staffed, the community
facilities included in the Project in conformity with sound
administrative, public health, educational or other relevant
practices, as the case may be, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(i) cause the educational facilities included in
the Project to be available for purposes of adult
training when not in use by the regular school
program;
(ii) cause the teachers for grades one through six
assigned to the educational institutions included
in the Project to attend the in-service training
courses included in Part B.3 of the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated June 14,
1973; and
(iii) employ, or cause to be employed, at all times,
qualified administrators and teachers in adequate
numbers to staff the educational institutions
included in the Project.
Section 4.04 The Borrower shall cause all access roads and
primary infrastructure (including water supply) included in the
Project to be maintained in conformity with sound engineering and
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources as required for the purpose.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause FEDECCREDITO, and IVU
(except for (iii) below), (i) to maintain separate accounts for
their operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project; (ii) to have their respective accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) to furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) to
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning their
respective accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) FSDVM shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Project Agreement, or the
FSDVM Subsidiary Lending Agreement;
(b) IVU or FEDECCREDITO shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Lending
Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have occurred which
shall make it improbable that either FSDVM, IVU or FEDECCREDITO
will be able to participate in the carrying out of the Project as
provided herein; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of either FSDVM, IVU or FEDECCREDITO.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion (other than an obligation to pay monies) on the part of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, and such default shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b) that the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of FSDVM have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c) that the execution and delivery of the FSDVM Subsidiary
Lending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and FSDVM, respec-
tively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by FSDVM, and is legally binding upon FSDVM in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the FSDVM Subsidiary Lending Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FSDVM and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and FSDVM in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date of November 1, 1977 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
IV and V of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 30 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿-14-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
3a Avenida Norte y 13a Calle Poniente
San Salvador
El Salvador
Cable address:
MINISTRO DE HACIENDA
San Salvador
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (ITT) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 15 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By Is/ Francisco Bertrand Galindo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan,
the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Part A of the
Project
(a) civil works           8,460,000          100%
(b) administration          860,000           41%
(c) credit program          440,000           41% of loans
disbursed
(2) Civil Works for              120,000           70%
Part B of the
Project
(3) Credit Program                70,000           70% of loans
for Part B.2 of                               disbursed
the Project
(4) Part C.1 of the            1,400,000           47% of loans
Project                                       disbursed
(5) Training and Tech-
nical Assistance
for:
(i) Part D.2
of the
Project            50,000           50%


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(ii) Part D.3
of the
Project            70,000          100%
(iii) Part D.4
of the
Prte-t
30,000          100%
(6) Unallocated               1,200,000
TOTAL     12,700,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consis-
tent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and the
Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 may be made
on account of expenditures for the design, administration and
execution of minor civil works before that date but after Janu-
ary 1, 1977; or


﻿- 18 -
(b) on account of expenditures under Categories (2) and
(3) unless the Association and the Bank shall have received
evidence satisfactory to the Association and the Bank that:
(i) the execution and delivery of the IVU Subsidiary
Lending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and
IVU have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary and corporate action; and a certificate
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank of a
competent official of the Borrower, showing (A) on
behalf of the Borrower, that the IVU Subsidiary
Lending Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms, and (B) on
behalf of IVU, that the said Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by and executed and
delivered on behalf of, IVU and is legally binding
upon IVU in accordance with their terms;
(ii) the unit referred to in Section 3.09 has been
established; and
(iii) the Director and key staff for the said unit have
been appointed; or
(c) on account of expenditures under Category (4), unless
the Association and the Bank shall have received evidence satis-
factory to the Association and the Bank that:
(i) the execution and delivery of the FEDECCREDITO
Subsidiary Lending Agreement on behalf of the
Borrower and FEDECCREDITO has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary and corporate action;
and a certificate satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank of a competent official of the
Borrower, showing (A) on behalf of the Borrower
that the FEDECCREDITO Subsidiary Lending Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accor-lance with its terms, and (B) on behalf of
FEDECCREDITO, that the said Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, FEDECCREDITO, and is


﻿- 19 -
legally binding upon FEDECCREDITO in accordance
with its terms; and
(ii) FEDECCREDITO shall have established the Urban
Credit Department and appointed a Director and key
staff thereof pursuant to Section 3.10 hereof;
or
(d) on account of expenditures for Part C.1 of the Project,
after July 31, 1978 or such other date as the Association and
the Bank shall agree, unless FEDECCREDITO shall have made the
adjustments provided for in Section 3.11 hereof if such adjust-
ments are required by the Association pursuant to such provision;
or
(e) for consultants retained under Part D.4 of the Project,
unless their qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
4.   (a) The Association and the Bank shall pay into the Re-
volving Fund Account all amounts withdrawn under Category (1)
(a).
(b) At the request of the Borrower from time to time,
the Association or the Bank, or both, as the case may be, shall
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account or
the Loan Account or both and pay into the Revolving Fund Account
an amount in Colones not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent
of $300,000 for expenditures for civil works to be made for Part A
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Loan; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be
made from the Loan Account under Category (1) (a) if such with-
drawal would cause the aggregate of the amounts withdrawn there-
under to reach the equivalent of the amount at the time allocated
to said Category (1) (a) minus $300,000 equivalent, until the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all the amounts theretofore with-
drawn under said Category correspond to the portion to be financed
under this Agreement and the Loan Agreement, of payments made out
of the Revolving Fund Account for expenditures eligible to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan.
5.    Except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have
been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the
Loan Account.


﻿- 20 -
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
and of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have,
or after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit the
Bank has, reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association and the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet
other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expeneitures
thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any item in any Category
is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Associ-
ation and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association and of the
Bank under the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Credit and of the Loan as, in the Association's and the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Serviced sites;,
1.   Development of about 8,000 urban lots in the sites
listed in Exhibit A to this Schedule (the Sites)
offering four service levels, substantially as specified
in Exhibit B to this Schedule, including development, in
the Sites, of about 400 lots for small industrial or
commercial use, or both.
2.   Construction of streets and footpaths in the Sites.
3.   Construction of water and sewerage trunk infrastructure
and public lights for the,Sites, and provision of water
supply and sewerage connections for each lot.
4.   Provision of power infrastructure for the Sites.
5.   Construction of access roads, storm drains, health
clinics, sports fields, markets, and multipurpose
community centers in the Sites.
6.   Construction, equipping and furnishing of about 12 basic
schools with about 4,800 student places, to serve about
9,600 students on a double shift basis.
7.   A credit program to assist assignees of the lots refer-
red to in 1 above (i) in acquiring the lots; and (ii) to
construct or complete or expand their dwelling where the
assignees have opted for service levels A or B.
Part B:   Pilot upgrading program for the "22 de Abril"
settlement in San Salvador:
1.   Provision of infrastructure and community facilities,
such as: improvement of water supply facilities and
washing areas; improvement of drainage facilities;
pavement of major access roads and improvement of
footpaths and steps, and stabilization of steep gradi-
ents; and construction and equipping of a community/day
care center.


﻿- 22 -
2.   A credit program to provide secure tenure, through
acquisition or otherwise, over the lots, and to finance
home improvements.
Part C:   Small business extension scheme:
1.   A credit program to assist small enterprises in workshop
construction or improvement, purchase of tools and
equipment, and increasing their working capital. Eli-
gible borrowers will be individuals, firms, cooperatives
and grupos solidarios (cooperatives under organization)
located in the sites included in Parts A and B hereof,
and individuals, firms, cooperatives and grupos
solidarios located elsewhere with assets below 45,000
in the case of individuals, and 10,000 in the case of
firms, cooperatives and grupos solidarios.
2.   A training and technical assistance program for indi-
viduals, firms, cooperatives and grupos solidarios,
either residents in the Sites or, if -not, with assets
below 45,000 in the case of individuals, and 10,000
in the case of firms, cooperatives and arupos
solidarios.
Part D:   Training and technical assistance:
1.   A study of designs and technologies applicable to
shelter.
2.   (a) A socio-economic evaluation of Part A of the
Project, and (b) a market study to determine the
effective demand for the various levels of service.
3.   A review of the small business scheme included in Part C
of the Project.
4.   Provision of advisory services to FSDVM, IVU, and
FEDECCREDITO, to assist them in investigating and
solving specific problems encountered during the
carrying out of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1980.


﻿- 23 -
EXHIBIT A TO SCHEDULE 2
Approximate
Location                       Number of Lots
San Salvador                         5,700
Santa Ana                            1,000
San Miguel                             500
Sonsonate                              300
Other                                  500


﻿- 24 -
EXHIBIT B TO SCHEDULE 2
Approximate* current           Approximate
estimated development cost        Percentage
Type of Level                (in Colones)                of Units
A                        2,000                        15
B                        3,100                        60
C                        4,100                        21
D                        7,000                         4
*    Variations exceeding 10% will require the prior concurrence
of the Association.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Subsidiary Lending
1.   Amounts: the equivalent in Colones of:
to FSDVM:        $10,300,000
to IVU:          $   190,000
to FEDECCREDITO! $ 1,400,000
2.   Repayment:
(a) FSDVM: 30 years (Credit proceeds) and 20 years (Loan
proceeds), both including 6 years of grace.
(b) IVU and FEDECCREDITO: 20 years, including 5 years of
grace.
3.   Rate of Interest:
(a) Credit proceeds: 2% per annum on outstanding amounts.
(b) Loan proceeds: 8.20% per annum on outstanding amounts.
4.   Exchange Risk to Borrowers: none; lending and repayment of
principal to be the same amount of Colones.
5.   Disbursement: pari passu with withdrawals from the Credit
Account and the Loan Account in respect of the expenditures
to be financed.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the General
Introduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Materials, equipment and civil works e7timated to cost less
than the equivalent of $120,000 shall be procured under procedures
satisfactory to the Association; provided that the aggregate cost
of such items do not exceed the equivalent of $6,900,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Certain Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with paragraph B above: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   (a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the methods, as per sub-paragraph (c) below,
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) For purposes of this Part C the term "Central American
Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer established in
the territories of any member country of the Central American


﻿- 27 -
Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial
extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank) in such territories;
any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Non-Central American Bid".
(c) The price under a Central American Bid shall be the
sum of:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their distribution, use
or installation.
(d) For the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid shall be the sum of:
(i) the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation
of such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers,
or 15% of the amount specified in (i) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from their port of entry to the place of
their use or installation.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association and the
Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $120,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association and the Bank, for comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank and the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the


﻿- 28
bidding documents shall require the concurrence of the Association
and the Bank before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank, in sufficient time for review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Association and the Bank shall,
if they determine that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the concurrence of the Association and the Bank,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked or prequali-
fication invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association or to the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to delivery to the Association or to the Bank, as the case
may be, of the first application for withdrawal of funds from,
respectively, the Credit Account or the Loan Account in respect of
such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan and not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
or to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Association or to the Bank, as the case may be, the first
application for withdrawal of funds from, respectively, the Credit
Account or the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Association and the Bank shall, if they determine that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Part B.of the Project: Policies
Servicing standards will be based on phased improvement
of present services or introduction of basic--generally shared--
facilities;
Detailed design standards will be determined in consultation
with the affected population, reflecting community priorities
and capacity to pay; and will be submitted to the Association for
its approval;
Residents will be offered secure tenure over the lots they
reside on;
There will be minimal resettlement, and families displaced
by installation of essential services will be relocated wherever
feasible in areas adjacent to the community; and
Full cost of upgrading including land, infrastructure,
washing areas, construction loans, administration and interim
interest will be recovered from residents. Costs of work under-
taken will be affordable to about 85% of the community. A risk
reserve will be established in an amount sufficient to cover
anticipated defaults.


