Bangladesh: Accelerating Progress Toward the Health MDGs
                                                                                                  93481
                                                                                                  May 8, 2012




 The Bangladesh Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program


Overview
In Bangladesh, the government has improved coverage and access to basic health services
through far-reaching program backed by multiple donors, including the International
Development Association (IDA). This initiative resulted in a 40 percent reduction in maternal
mortality between 2001-2010, and a 26 percent reduction in under-five child mortality between
2004-2010. Bangladesh is on track to meet the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) targets in
child health and maternal health, and the United Nations presented Bangladesh its MDG Award
2010 for reducing child mortality.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
The Health, Nutrition and Population Sector
Program in Bangladesh aimed to address
several challenges. In particular, underutilization
of basic health services was a serious issue with
nearly 90 percent of births taking place at home
in 2004,  and only four percent of the mothers in
the poorest quintile receiving skilled delivery
care in that year. Additionally, there was a need
for a more equitable allocation of resources to
match health needs among the poor, particularly
as inequitable coverage of family planning and
other services meant that the poorest women in        MORE
the country were giving birth to children at a rate
                                                       Bridging the Gap in Bangladesh
1.5 times more than women in the richest parts
of society. There was also a need to improve           A New Life in Bangladesh
budget management, procurement processes,
and aid management in the sector.

                                                                   More Results
Approach
The program was implemented through a sector-wide
approach and used government systems. It aimed to
improve the country’s performance in reaching health,
nutrition, and population-related MDGs, addressing new and
emerging challenges such as non-communicable diseases,
                                                                   2.5
                                                                   fertility rate in Bangladesh
and implementing reforms such as decentralization and
contracting with non-state providers. The program had a
performance-based financing component, with  25 percent of
the project funds  provided on the basis of satisfactory
performance of agreed upon indicators during the previous
year. The program has introduced demand-side financing
                                                                              80%
                                                                              of children are now receiving
schemes for maternal health, as an alternative financing                      basic vaccination
mechanism. It ensured the delivery of essential health
services through improving the quality and reliability of
antenatal care, by scaling up essential emergency obstetric
                                                                              MORE INFORMATION
and newborn care services, and by expanding facility- and
community-based integrated management of childhood                              Project Documents
illnesses services.                                                             Bangladesh Country Site

                                                                                End Poverty in South Asia Blog
Results
                                                                                Connect with us on Facebook
The government has improved coverage and access to basic
health, nutrition, and population services, which are reflected                 Talk to us on Twitter
in the following key indicators:
    1. The maternal mortality ratio declined from 320 in 2001 to 194
       maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in 2010.
    2. The under-five mortality rate fell from 88 per 1,000 live births in
       2004 to 56 by 2010.
    3. The percentage of births attended by medically trained providers increased from 16 percent in 2004 to 26
       percent in 2010; the improvement is more evident within the two poorest quintiles during the same
       period, with the percentage jumping from four percent to 12 percent over the same period.
    4. Vitamin A supplementation coverage among children 9-59 months increased from 82 percent in 2004 to
       92 percent in 2010.
    5. Basic vaccination coverage by 12 months of age increased from 68 percent in 2004 to 80 percent in
       2010.
    6. The total fertility rate declined to 2.5 children per woman in 2010 after a decade-long plateau during the
       1990s around 3.3 children per woman.
    7. The contraceptive prevalence rate for modern methods increased from 47 percent in 2004 to 54 percent
       in 2010.

Voices


     I examine expecting mothers in an Upazilla Health Complex.
   Mothers are educated on exclusive breast feeding, contraceptive
   measures and immunization programs for their newborn. I am
   proud to be able to transfer my knowledge to my community,
   helping mothers to nurture healthy, happy babies.  
                                  — Sukla, female health worker in Dhamrai



Bank Contribution
The Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program was a $4.3-billion, six-year program,
which mobilized a total of $1.2 billion in assistance from development partners. This included
$687 million of pooled funds comprising $300 million from the International Development
Association (IDA) plus $387 million from seven other partners channeled through an IDA-
administered multi-donor trust fund.
 
Partners
There are 16 donors active in the Bangladesh health, nutrition, and population sector, which
are organized in a consortium for coordination and harmonization of assistance. All
development partners participated in the joint annual program review and in policy dialogues
with the government. There were also thematic task groups, comprised of government and
donor representatives to monitor program implementation. IDA’s $300-million credit for the
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program was complemented by $387 million from the
European Commission, the UK Department for International Development, the Swedish
International Development Cooperation Agency, Germany's KfW, the Netherlands, the
Canadian International Development Agency, and the United Nations Population Fund. Other
partners provided parallel support to the sector.

Toward the Future
Program implementation ended in 2011 and the government is implementing a follow-up
program - Bangladesh Health Sector Development Program (HSDP) for 2011 to 2016. Building
on the experience of the Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Program, the new sector
program is designed to improve health services and strength health systems. The program
costs around $7 billion, financed 75 percent by the government and the remainder by
development partners. It targets resources to the poor to create a health care system that
caters to the needs of the people.
External funding for the HSDP includes the Multi Donor Trust Fund of $280 million and the
World Bank’s IDA credit of $359 million. Four development partners have pooled their finances
in the Multi Donor Trust Fund: the government of Australia acting through the Australian
Agency for International Development (AusAID); United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland represented by the Department for International Development (DFID); the government
of Sweden, represented by the Swedish International Development Agency (Sida); and the
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). The government of Canada, represented
by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA); the Federal Republic of Germany
through KfW; and the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands (EKN) have also pledged to
pool their financing in the near future.
The HSDP will support the efforts of the government of Bangladesh to improve the health
status of the population, especially women, children, the poor and the marginalized. The
program will focus on improving emergency obstetric and newborn care services and the
nutritional status of expectant mothers and their children. The program will also strengthen
health sector planning and resource management, human resources development,
management of pharmaceuticals, health information systems and maintenance of health care
facilities.
