Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repit No. P-5360-CD
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNMNT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A
PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING CREDIT
OCTOBER 26, 1990
This document has a restricted disftibution and masy be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  X    CFA Francs
US$1.00        -    260 CFAF  11
VEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ROC       *    Republic of Chad
SEERAT    =    Societe t'Etude et d' Exploitation de la Raffinerie
du Tchad
STEE      -    Societe Tchadienne d'Eau et Electricite
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
ElI B          European Investment Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11 As of October 1, 1990, the CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in
the ratio of FF 1.0 to CFAF 50.0. The FF is currently floating.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PETROLEUM AND POWR. ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Chad (ROC)
Beneficiariess      ROC, Soci6td d'Etude et d'Exploitation de la
Raffinerie du Tchad (SEERAT).
Amount:              SDR 7.9 million (US$11.0 million equivalent).
Termss              Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:    The Government would relend 90Z of the Credit (US$10.0
million) to SEERAT at an interest rate of 12S for 15
years, including 5 years of grace. About 5? of the
credit would be passed on to SEERAT as equity.
Financing Plan:                                 Local  Foreign  Total
---- (US$ million)----
Government                  0.3        -      0.3
Private Oil Companies       0.2        -      0.2
EIB (To be confirmed)        -         3.0    3.0
IDA                          -        11.0   11.0
Total                       0.5       14.0   14.5
Economic Rate of
Returns                  Not Applicable
Staff A#nraisal Renort:  None
IBRD No. 22229
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the p-.brmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank s.thorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR A PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
Petroleum and Power Engineering Credit to the Republic of Chad (ROC) for
SDR 7.9 million (US$11.0 million equivalent) is submitted for approval.
The proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
This Credit would help finance an engineering project (the Engineering
Project) for the preparation of a follow-up project (the Petroleum and
Power Project) that would consist of facilities described in para 1 below.
The project will essentially be carried out by Societd d'Etude et
d'Exploitation de la Raffinerie du Tchad (SEERAT). SEERAT is a Chad
incorporated company in which ROC owns 512 of the shares and three oil
companies (Shell, Esso and Chevron), own a total of 49Z.
2.        Backround.  Crude oil was discovered in Chad in 1974 at Sedigi,
north of Lake Chad, some 300 km from the capital city of N'Djamena. The
Sedigi field has not yet been exploited, partly because of the civil war
and partly for want of mutually satisfactory agreements between the oil
companies and the Government. Also, the feasibility of producing the oil
for Chad's relatively small domestic market had not been determined. PPF
financed studies confirmed the technical and economic feasibility of
developing the Sedigi field to meet local demand for petroleu'u and electric
energy. The PPF also financed the services of reservoir engineers and of
consultants who assisted the Government in its negotiations with the oil
companies. As a result, the Government, in December 1988, entered into an
agreement with a Consortium of three oil companies, (Esso. Shell and
Chevron) renewing for another 10 years their exploration rights in Southern
Chad (see IBRD Map). A second agreement between the Government and SEERAT
provides the framework for a project including (a) the development of the
Sedigi field, and (b) the construction of a pipelina to N'Djamena and a
refinery to process the Sedigi crude. The Sedigi oil reserves were
confirmed by further drilling by the Consortium in December 1989. Residual
fuel oil would be sold to the local power utility company, Societe
Tchadienne d'Eau et Electricite (STEE), and the distilled products to
private oil marketing companies. The pipeline and refinery facilities
would be constructed, owned and operated by SEERAT. This agreement also
calls for SEERAT to supervise the construction of, and operate under a
service contract, the power generating facilities for STEE. IDA intends to
help finance the construction of the pipeline, refinery and power plant
(the proposed Petroleum and Power Project). Before financing for the
construction of these facilities can be mobilized, a number of preparatory
activities need to be completed. It is proposed therefore to finance these
activities out of the proceeds of the proposed Petroleum and Power
Engineering Credit.



- 2 -
3.        Rationale for sn Imvolvement.  The proposed Engineering Project
is consistent with IDA's country strategy of channeling scarce financial
resources into most essential developmental projects, assisting resource
mobilization, ensuring the least-cost supply of energy, developing sector
institutions and rationalizing sector policies. IDA's active participation
is critical to mobilize financing from other donors and the private sector.
The Engineering Project would also be a vehicle to ensure financial
viability of the operating entities and the appropriate distribution of the
benefits between the Government, the Consortium and consumers.
4.        Prolect Obiectives.  The main objective of the proposed
Engineering Project is to complete the preparation of the proposed
Petroleum and Power Project. It will help to prepare project
specifications, budgetary cost estimates and tender documents with
sufficient detail to permit calling for three separate turnkey contract
bids (one each for the pipeline, refinery and power plant), thus ensuring
the most efficient and least cost executiot. of the proposed Petroleum and
Power Project. The Engineering Project will also make technical assistance
and specialized expertise available to the Government and to SEEAT so as
tot (a) ensure that the petroleum and electric power pricing, institutional
and environmental issues concerning the main project are addressed and
resolved before the main project investment is undertaken in earnest; (b)
ensure that the turnkey contracts for the main project are properly awarded
and the contractors are suitably supervised during project execution; and
Cc) ensure ROC's administration of the energy sector is adequately
strengthened so it can manage the sector effectively and improve its
ability to interact with private investors.
5.        Proiect Descriotion.  The proposed Engineering Project would
consist of two phases. Phase I would finances (a) consulting services to:
(i) revise and possibly modify the project configuration to accommodate the
new data on the quality of the Sedigi crude resulting from recent drilling
and testing; (ii) revise the project cost estimates taking into account
these modifications; and (iii) prepare engineering designs, duty
specifications, and drawings, in sufficient detail to prepare three
separate sets of tender documents for the refinery, pipeline, and power
plant components and invite and evaluate turnkey bids for detailed
engineering, procurement and erecting the facilities; (b) preparation of an
environmental assessment; (c) studies related to pricing of petroleum
products and power tariffs; (d) study on the possible utilization of Sedigi
associated gas; (e) support for ESMAP's household energy study; (f)
management personnel for SEERAT; and (g) office space, materials,
equipment, vehicles and other facilities. Phase 1I would finances (a) a
portion of the costs of supervision of construction and cammissioning of
the project facilities; (b) assistance to SEERAT in the field of operation,
maintenance, finance, administration, safety and security; and (c) training
of local personnel. A condition for disbursing the funds for Phase II
would be the demonstration of the economic and financial viability of the
Petroleum and Power Project during appraisal. There will be suitable
provisions in the Project Nanagement contract, under which the services
described in a(i) to a(iii) of Phase I and (a) of Phase II mentioned above
will be performed.



- 3 -
6.        The project to be carried out over five years is estimated to
cost US$14.5 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
US$14.0 million (95 percent). IDA would finance about 752 of the costs of
the project, EI1 about 20Z and the remainder would be financed by the
private oil companies and the Government. A breakdown of costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of
procurements and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown
in Schedule B. Retroactive financing will be limited to about 10 percent
of the proposed credit. A timetable of key project processing events and
the status of Bank Group operations in Chad are given in Schedules C and D
respectively. More detailed information on the proposed project and the
*           energy sector is provided in Annex I.  A Supervision Plan is provided in
Annex II.
7.        Environmental aspects.  There is no adverse environmental impact
associated rith the proposed Engineering Project.  However, the follow-up
Petroleum and Power Project could potentially have the following impact on
the environments (a) pollution of Lake Chad due to oil spillage; (b)
relocation of houses along the pipeline route; and (c) pollution due to oil
leaking out through the refinery liquid waste. A positive impact of the
project on the environment would be the substitution of charcoal and
fuelvood consumption with consumption of LPG extracted from the refinery
and from the Sedigi associated gas. A first phase environmental assessment
has been completed that would be used by the engineering consultants.
8.        Proiect Imolementation.  ROC would establish a project unit in
its Bureau des Affaires Petroliares du Tchad to monitor the progress of the
project. SEERAT would negotiate a project management consultancy contract
(the Project Management Contract) on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA to prepare design, project specification, tender documents, bid
evaluation and perform supervision during construction and conmissioning of
the facilities.
9.        Actions taken.  Actions taken prior to negotiation' were:  (a)
adoption of new statutes of SEERAT acceptable to IDA and recapitalization
of SEERAT pursuant to which ROC became 51 percent shareholder; (b)
nomination of six board members and election of a chairman; (c) completion
of an environmental assessment; (d) initiation of a petroleum pricing and
power tariff study; (e) request for bids for the provision of engineering
services; and (f) the appointment of key expatriate personnel for the
management, operation and maintenance of the pipeline, refinery and power
plant and for training of local personnel.  Conditions of effectiveness
include the following: (a) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to IDA between SEERAT and the Government; and (b) a4option of
acceptable internal administrative procedures by SEERAT. In line with the
provisions of the SEERAT Convention, a portion of the credit would be
relent by the Government to SEERAT at an interest rate of 122.



- 4 -
10.       Benefits.  The proposed Engineering Project will provide a firm
basis for the cost estimates and the efficient implementation of the
follow-up Petroleum and Power Project. The exploitation of the Sedigi
crude for domestic consumption is a top priority for the Government in
making use of the country's natural resources and at the same time reducing
foreign exchange outflow for meeting its petroleum and power needs. The
yearly savings from the proposed Petroleum and Power Project in petroleum
product imports at current product price levels will be about US$20-25
million. Available information indicate that the Petroleum and Power
Project would be economically and financially viable and have an economic
rate of return over 20 percent.
11.       Risks.  There is no major risk associated with the Engineering
project.
12.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 26, 1990



Schedule A
REPUBLIC OP ClAD
PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs 1/                            Local    ForeiRn     Total
--US$ Million Equivalent--
1. PHASE I
(a) Preparation of project
specifications and tendering        -          2.3        2.3
(b) SEERAT management staff
and operational costs               -          1.0        1.0
(c) Cost of real estate, office
equipment, vehicles                 0.2        0.2        0.4
(d) Household energy and gas
utilization studies                    -         0.2        0.2
Subtotal                            0.2        3.7        3.9
2. PHASE II
(a) Construction & commissioning
supervision by consultants          -          1.5        1.5
(b) SEERAT construction
and co,  issioning staff             -         4.0        4.0
(c) Training and operational
support to SEERAT                   0.1        1.5        1.6
Subtotal                            0.1        7.0        7.1
base cost estimate (Phases I and II)        0.3      10.7       11.0
Physical contingencies                      0.1       1.2        1.3
Price contingencies                         0.1       0.6        0.7
Sub-Total with Contingencies              0.5      12.5       13.0
Refinancing of PPF                          -         1.5        1.5
Total Prolect Costs                      ,&2                  "li
Financing Plan                                        USS Million Equivalent
Government                                                  0.3
IDA (including US$1.5 mill'on PPF)                         11.0
EIB (to be confirmed)                                       3.0
Private oil companies                                       0.2
TOTAL                                                    14.5
l/Exclusive of taxes and duties



Schedule 9
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAO
PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND SISBURSEMENTS
PROCUREMENT METHOD
AMOUNTS AND PROCUREMENT METHODS 1/
ICB    LIB    OTHER    N.A.  TOTAL
------USS million equivalent-----
1. PHASE I
(a) Preparation of Project                                 2.8             2.8
specifications and tendering                          (2.8)           (2.8)
(b) SEERAT management staff                                1.2             1.2
and operational costs                                 (1.2)           (1.2)
(c) Office space, equipment and                    0.4                     0.4
vehicles                                       (0.1)                  (0.1)
(d) Household energy and gas                               0.2             0.2
utilization studies                                   (0.2)           (0.2)
Sub-Total PHASE I    0.3    4.3              4.6
(0.2)  (4.1)           (4.3)
2. PHASE II
(a) Construction and commissioning                         1.8            1.8
supervision by consultants                            (1.8)         (1.8)
(b) SEERAT construction and                                4.6            4.6
commissioning staff                                   (1.6)          (1.6)
(d) Training and operational                               2.0            2.0
support to SEERAT                                     (1.8)         (1.8)
Sub-Total PHASE II           8.4            8.4
(5.2)         (5.2)
PPP Refinancing                                                   1.5    1.5
(1.5)  (1.5)
Total PHASES I and II              0.3    9.7    1.5   14.5
(0.2)  (9.3)  (1.5) (11.0)
i/ Figure in parentheis ar* the aount* fFinanced by IDA



Schedule I
Page 2 of 2
CATEGORY                                        1100Nt   PEICEWTAGU OF  XPEUDTITME
(V8$ Million)        TO BI  FNWANCED
1. PHASE T
(a) Preparation of project
specification and tendering               2.3       1002 of expenditures
(b) SEART Management staff
and operational costs                     1.0       1oo0  of expenditures
(c) Office space, Bquipment and
vehicles                                  0.2       100I   of foreign expenditures
(d) Studies                                   0.2       lOO0  of foreign expenditures
Sub-total        3.7
2. PEASE SI
(a) Construction and commissioning
supervision by consultants                1.5       10O2 of expenditures
(b) S8ERAT construction and
commissioning staff                       1.3       1002 of expenditures
(c) Training and operational support         1.5        1002 of foreign expenditures
Sub-total        4.3
3. PPF Reflnancing                            1.5      Amount due pursuant to Section
2.02 of Development Credit
Agreement
4. Uhallocated                                LS
Total             11.0
ESTIDATED IDA DISSURSS
aD& Fiscal Year
91        92      93      94       95
(U1S$ Million Equivalent)
Annual                                    4.0 j     2.0     2.0     2.0      1.0
Cumulative                                4.0       6.0     8.0    10.0    11.0
/ Ilude USS.5 milloe for  ffeeMlmg of mW.



Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF CRAD
PETROLEUN AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF REY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                     8 months
(b)  Prepared by:                               IDA with assistance from
consultants
(c)  First IDA mission:                         July 1989
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:               No formal appraisal
(e)  Negotiations:                              October 1990
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             December 1990
(g) List of Relevant Documentes
1.   PetroleumlPower Project Prefeasibility Study by Technip, Paris,
1988.
2. Development Study of the Sedigi Field by Gaffney, Cline and
Associates, Dallas, 1990.
3.  Etude des Effets sur l'Environnement - Projet d'Ingenierie
Petrole et Electricit6 par laskoning, Nimbgue, 1990.



Schedule, P
PETRLEUM ANI) POWE ENG16EER1NG PROECT
STATs oM SAWO GROW       TIONS SN CA
Amount It US$ aililon
(lees cancellations)
Loan/Creit Fiscal                                                      Wndi-   Closing
N_ubr      YTsr     Borrowr    Purpo                 Sonk  MDA       bursd       Date
17 Crdits(s) cloed                                            74.82
C17280-M   1997       Cba          Highway ,lnt.nance         26.00       2.01   96/59/W0(R)
C17760-CND  1967      Chad         AS. RohabliltOtion         11.40      19.0"  12/81/91
C18720-CD  1986       Chad         T.A. for Eco". a Finen.   12.90       12.26  96/59/94
C19016CND  1og8        Chad        Roa Recnstruction          47.00      81.94   12/81/90
C19120-CD   1098       Chad        Livestock                  18.00      15.59  12/81/95
CA87904D   199        Chad         Financial Rehab Cr.        27.90      16.64  066/5/90
C194-CHD  1909        Chad         Financial Rehab Cr.        10.20      11.98  66/60/99
C195-CHD  10          Chad         Education                  22.00      19.21  12311/94
C2079O   1969         Chad         Teaport Sector AdJ.        80.90      59.87  s6/30/94
Total Number of Crdilts - 9                                  241.99    176.01
Totsl1/                                         316.22
of which repld                                 uji
Total hold by Sank    IDA                        m-."
mount sold             6.09
of which repaid
Total Undisburse                                           178.00
(R) ldcadtesc formally revised closing date.
J  Total Approved, Repayment and Outstanding balance reprerent both active and Inactive
loans and credits.
The Not Approved and Sank Repayments are h Itorical volue, all others are market v lu .
The Signing, Effective and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and
are not taken from the Task Budget f l*.



Annex I
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Enerav Supply and Demand
1.     Chad is a country of about 5 million people with limited energy
resources. Fuelvood is the main present source of locally available energy
in the absence of any significant hydroelectric potential (about 30 MW
located in remote area).   The statistical data on energy production and
consumption in Chad is extremely weak. All the electricity power consumed in
Chad is produced by diesel sets using imported diesel fuel and amounts to
67.4 Gwh in 1987.   All other transport,  commercial and domestic fuel
requirements are met by imported petroleum products (gasoline, kerosene, jet
fuel, diesel and LPG) which account for 105,000 cubic meters (in) in 1988
(excludes diesel fuel consumed for power generation).
2.     Net per capita consumption of commercial energy (petroleum products
and thermal electricity), estimated at 24 kgoe in 1988, is low compared to
other Sub-Saharan countries such as Ghana (59 kgoe), Mali (108 kgoe), Niger
(36 kgoe) and Mauritania (136 kgoe). Commercial energy consumption decreased
drastically during the civil war years 1978 to 1982, but started increasing
slowly since then.
B. Enerrv Sector Organization
3.     The Secretariat General of the Presidency organized the Bureau for
Petroleum Affairs with UNDP financing to centralize all the information
concerning exploration, production and distribution of petroleum. The Bureau
works in close collaboration with the Ministry of Mines, Petroleum and
Energy. The Ministry also monitors household energy efforts and activities
of the power company (STEE) which is in charge of (a) generation and
distribution of electricity in the four main cities (N'Djamena, Sahr, Moundou
and Abeche); and (b) producing and distributing water in Chad. The Socihtd
d'Etudes et d'Exploitation de la Raffinerie du Tchad (SEERAT), a company
owned by the Government of Chad and the oil companies, will build, own and
operate the proposed pipeline and refinery.
C. Renewable Enerav
4.     Almost 99Z of the Chadian households depend on wood or charcoal for
cooking fuel.    Forest based products  and crop  residues  also meet  a
substantial portion of the commercial energy needs. The depletion of forest
resources (compounded by frequent droughts) and the increasing demand for
woodfuel are bound to create a serious energy imbalance in Chad in the



Annex I
Page 2 of 11
future.   The Dutch Government and the Bank (ESMAP) will assist in the
implementation of a household and biomass study to address issues in the
sector and develop a strategy for household energy.
D. Petroleum Sub-Sector
5.     Hvdrocarbon Potential.  Chad's sedimentary areas cover about 70S of
the territory.   The potential of these basins (Northern Chad, Lake Chad,
Central Chad and Southern Chad) have been recognized in the sixties when
first field work began. However, oil exploration started in earnest only in
1970 with the signing of an exploration convention with CONOCO, later joined
by Shell and Chevron, for an exclusive concession of about 600,000 square
kilometers.  Initial exploration led to the discovery of Sedigi-l located
some 28km North of Lake Chad and about 200 km N-NE of N'Djamena. Two other
structures of the same basin also had oil shows. CONOCO later transferred its
interests to Esso who is presently the lead member of the Consortium. After
the renewal of the exploration rights, in late 1988, the Consortium has been
concentrating its exploration efforts in the South where oil discoveries have
been reported.
6.     The latest drilling efforts at Sedigi in 1989 and extended production
tests (2 to 10 days) indicated that proven reserves are in the order of 10.5
million barrels and that the two wells could deliver a combined production of
2,000 bpd for at least 7 years. The close-by Kumia structure, which lies at
5km east of Sedigi and has yielded oil similar to that of Sedigi, is smaller
in size but can be viewed as a potential back-up reserve, to be tapped later
when the Sedigi production declines irremediably.
7.     Petroleum Consumption. High prices, due to about 1400 kilometers of
inland road transportation, have compelled Chad to restrict consumption of
petroleum products. Due to the high transport element (about 2.5 times of
CIF, Atlantic Coast) in the landed cost, the reductions in international
prices during the past few years have not benefitted Chad in any significant
way. In the absence of proper collection of statistical data (compounded by
certain amount of interstate smuggling, particularly from Nigeria), the
actual consumption figures are questionable. The consumption in 1988 was
estimated around 137,000 cubic meters, 45S of which was consumed in
N'Djamena, another 452 in the southern regions of Moundou and sahr, and the
balance 10  in the rest of the country.  Even though the consumption in
absolute terms is small (US$50 million worth), it still claimed about 452 of
the country's total export earnings (US$111 million) and accounted for 192 of
the total merchandise imports (US$261 million) in 1987.



Annex I
Page 3 of 11
S.     As per the limited available information, the consumption before the
civil war in 1978 and in 1986 and 1988 are estimated by various sources to be
as follows*
Table 1.2
Consumation of Petroleum Products
-- Thousand cubic meters --
19781     19862      1988'
LPG                   0.3        0.3        0.4
Aviation gasoline      4.2        -         1.2
Gasoline             16.4       17.2      21.2
Kerosene               7.0      13.5       2.5
Jet fuel             24.0       40.5      52.7 4
Diesel               34.1       64.0      59.0
Total             ALA       iu.       1::
Source:   K ICWP Report of January 1986.
9Shl I estintes.
3ur"u OO Afft rm  MProl@ e du Tchd.
4lnelu_ 46.|1 thousnd cubicebre "oname by Frech Anr.
9.     Once domestic crude oil is exploited and locally refined, the main
constraint to increased consumption of petroleum products will be removed and
the availability of petroleum fuels will have immediate positive effect on
all sectors of the economy, and on GDP growth. Since the present consumption
level is on the basis of a highly suppressed demand, the growth rate in the
initial three to four years is expected to be at least 5 to 62 per year
compounding before it gets stabilized around 3.52 per year in line with
projected GDP growth. However, one important constraint in this scenario is
the consumption of fuel oil which is an unavoidable byproduct of refining the
local crude oil.  The capacity at which a domestic refinery can be operated
in Chad will depend upon the extent to which residual fuel oil can be
consumed.  Presently only power generation in N'Djamena can be seen as a
consumer of residual fuel oil (about 25,000 tons of heavy fuel oil per year)
substituting for imported diesel fuel. At this rate of fuel oil consumption,
the refinery will be able to meet only about 60 percent of the 1988 demand
for distillate products (gasoline, kerosene, jet fuel and diesel).
Therefore, it is essential to develop fuel oil consumption in the industrial
sector (where wood and crop residue are used at present) as much as possible.



Annex I
Page 4 of 11
Increased consumption of fuel oil and LPG would have the added advantage of
reducing deforestation on account of substituting kerosene and LPG for forest
based woodfuel to meet cooking and industrial needs. This aspect will be
reviewed by the household energy study mentioned in para. 4 above.
10.    Petroleum Product Distribution and Marketing.  All petroleum products
consumed in Chad are imported from Nigeria and Cameroon. In the absence of
rail or pipeline facilities, products are transported by trucks owned and
operated privately. While the bulk of the imports are channeled through the
international oil companies marketing in Chad (Shell, Mobil and Total),
substantial quantities of products entering the country at present are
smuggled across the border from Nigeria. The mechanism of controlling the
entry of petroleum trucks into Chad needs thorough revamping in order to
prevent or minimize such smuggling activities.   The problem which has an
implication on the operation of the refinery will be studied in detail in the
context of the proposed pricing studies.
11.    Petroleum Product Pricing. Petroleum product prices are fixed by the
Government at the wholesale and retail levels.   The prices except for
transport margins are currently applied countrywide. The appropriateness of
the pricing mechanism and the prices will be reviewed in detail through the
petroleum products pricing and electricity tariff study included in the
proposed Engineering Project. Production of domestic petroleum is expected
to result in a lowering of prices to consumers and an increase in tax
revenues to the Government.
E. Power Sector
12.    Existing Power System.  The existing power generation and supply in
Chad consists of four isolated networks based in N'Djamena, Sahr, Moundou and
Ab4ch4. The total installed generating capacity is about 29.2 MW of which
20.5 MW are in N'DJamena, 6.2 MV in Sahr, 1.7 MW in Moundou and 0.9 MV in
Abdche. The operation and maintenance of power facilities have suffered from
several years of political turmoil.   In order to have a reliable power
generation some of the existing units in N'Djamena will have to be replaced
with new units. Outside N'Djamena, delayed maintenance and lack of spare
parts have caused major failure of the diesel units leading to costly repairs
and replacement. CCCE has been providing technical assistance to STEE for
some years, and has recently approved financing of US$ 20 million equivalent
for a comprehensive program of rehabilitation, restructuring and management
improvement. A contrat plan" (performance contract) has been agreed between
STEE and the Government. A Management Contract financed by CCCE has been
signed in April 1990 with a French consulting firm, which may eventually
become a shareholder in STEE.
13.    Access to electricity in Chad remains at a very low level.  Even in
N'Djamena, it is limited to about 102 of the population.   Prospects for
increase in demand for electricity depend on the success of the exploitation
of the Sedigi crude oil, the power generation facilities based on the
residual fuel oil produced from the proposed refinery, and the possibility



Annex I
Page 5 of 11
for electricity tariffs to be brought down to an affordable level. These
issues will be addressed in the development of the proposed project.
F. Government's Sector Obiectives and Development Plans
14.    Government's main sector objective is to develop the locally available
petroleum resources to reduce dependence on imported petroleum products and
to reduce environmental impact on account of deforestation. In this context,
development of the Sedigi field to meet most of the country's requirement of
commercial energy, including electric power generation, is a top priority for
the Government. The success of this program would considerably reduce, if
not eliminate, Chad's dependence on high cost imported petroleum fuel except
for small quantities of lubricants, greases and some specialty oils.  In
addition to reducing the cost of petroleum to consumers, the project would
increase revenues to the Government. The Government is also keen to develop
the use of residual fuel oil in place of wood fuel for the industry which
will be available once crude oil refining is started in Chad.  In short,
domestic crude oil would become the back-bone of Chad's ability to meet its
energy requirements, and the most efficient development of it has become an
urgent necessity.
G. Role of the Bank Group and Rationale for IDA Involvement
15.    The Bank/IDA involvement in the petroleum sector began soon after the
oil was discovered in Sedigi in 1974, and preparation for developing the
field to produce crude oil and refine it locally was under way when the civil
war started and disrupted the whole process. IDA's efforts were renewed at
the request of ROC in 1986 as a result of which IDA approved a US$ 1.5
million advance from the Project Preparation Facility (P-393-CD) to finance
technical assistance associated with project preparation.
16.    The proposed project is consistent with the IDA's country strategy
objectives of channeling scarce financial resources into most essential
developmental projects which assist resource mobilization, ensuring the
least-cost supply of energy, developing sector institutions and rationalizing
sector policies.    IDA's active participation  is critical  to mobilize
resources from other donors and the private sector. The project would also
be a vehicle to revise energy prices and tariffs to ensure financial
viability of the operating entities and to encourage appropriate distribution
of the benefits between the Government, the consortium and the consumers.



Annex I
Page 6 of 11
II. PROJECT FORMULATION AND PREPARATION
A. Status of Proiect Preparation
17.    In October 1986, at the request of ROC, IDA agreed to extend a US$1
million advance from the Project Preparation Facility (P-393-CD) in order to
finance  consultancy  services  for project  preparation.    This  included
preparation of the feasibility report, independent assessment of drilling
costs and field reserves and technical assistance to ROC in contract
negotiations. The PPF amount was subsequently increased to US$1.5 million in
1990.
18.    The feasibility report and the cost estimates for drilling and
production facilities have been completed by TECHNIP (France) and OGS (US)
respectively.   CORELAB (US) has carried out a general evaluation of the
reserves which was followed by an additional evaluation of the Sedigi
reserves and deliverability prepared by Gaffney-Cline and Associates (US).
These activities have been carried out on the basis of TORs agreed with IDA.
The IDA-financed technical assistance is being complemented by other
consultants funded by UNDP and Swiss Cooperation Funds grants.
19.    During September 1989 a consensus was reached between the private
shareholders and the Government to the effect that: (a) the proposed
project's three main components (the refinery, pipeline and the power plant)
would be contracted on a turnkey basis using international competitive
bidding (ICB); (b) a project management consultant (PMC) would be appointed
soonest to prepare project specifications and tender documents and assist
SEERAT in tendering and negotiations of the turnkey contracts and later
supervision of the contracts; and (c) a core management team, including an
experienced general manager with project management expertise, would be
appointed in SEERAT. It was also recognized that before financing for the
construction of the facilities can be mobilized a number of preparatory
activities need to be completed. It is therefore proposed to carry out these
activities using an Engineering Credit.
B. Proiect Description
20.    The proposed Engineering Project would consist of two phasess
Phase I would finances
(a) consulting services to:
(i)     revise and possibly modify the project configuration to
accommodate new data on the quality of the Sedigi crude
resulting from recent drilling and testing;



Annex I
Page 7 of 11
(ii)   revise the project cost estimates taking into account these
modifications;
(iii)  prepare  engineering  designs,  duty  specifications,  and
drawings, in sufficient detail to prepare three separate sets
of tender documents for the refinery, pipeline, and power
plant components in order to invite turnkey bids for detailed
engineering, procurement and erecting the facilities; and
(iv)   prepare an environmental assessment of the project's8 impact
and modify the project specifications accordingly;
(b) studies related to pricing of petroleum products and power tariffs
that would serve as a basis for allocating the benefits resulting
from cheaper petroleum products between the consumer, the utility
and the State;
(c) studies on household energy and utilization of Sedigi associated
gas; and
,d)  office space, materials, construction equipment, vehicles and other
facilities.
Phase 1I would finances
(a) supervision of construction and commissioning of the project
facilities;
(b) assistance to SEERAT in the field of operation, maintenance,
finance, administration, safety and security; and
(c) training of local personnel.
A condition for disbursing the funds for Phase II would be for the
project to be justified after Phase I. There will be suitable provisions for
that purpose in the project management contract.
C. Proiect Cost Estimates
21.    The total cost of the activities under the proposed Engineering
Project is estimated at US$14.5 million including US$0.5 million equivalent
in local currency expenditure as shown ir Schedule A.  IDA financing for
approximately US$11.0 million which would include the refinancing of the PPF
advance of US$1.5 million is proposed. EIB has agreed to consider providing
an additional US$3.0 million.



Annex I
Page 8 of 11
E. Economic Merits of Producing Domestic Crude Oil
22. Currently all the petroleum products are imported, mostly by road from
Douala  (Cameroon) and Kaduna (Nigeria).   There is a certain amount of
unauthorized entry of products across the border from Nigeria, but there is
no reliable data to verify the quantity and price of such transactions.
Regarding the normal imports, the oil marketing companies currently charge on
average around US$55 per barrel which is equivalent to US$400 per ton (pre-
Gulf crisis prices). As per current FOB prices. average cost of product CIF
Douala amounts to about US$222 per ton, leaving about US$178 per ton for
handling and road transportation.   This cost compares with similar road
transportation costs elsewhere in Africa (US$178 per ton for Dar-es-Salaam -
Kigali in Rwanda and US$184 per ton for Dar-es-Salaam - Goma in Eastern
Zaire). Also, assuming around US$0.11 per ton-kilometer as the economic cost
of road transportation in African conditions (Consultant's studies for Ghana
in 1987), it would cost US$165 per ton to transport petroleum products from
Douala to Chad.
23. As per the agreement between ROC and the Consortium, Sedigi crude oil
will be produced and delivered to SEERAT at the well head at US$8 per barrel.
Assuming liberally about US$20 per barrel for the pipeline transportation,
refining and return on investments, the cost of each barrel of product
shipped out of the proposed refinery would be about US$28 per barrel, leaving
a net gain of about US$27 per barrel (about US$200 per ton).   A rough
estimate indicates that the project would be economically and financially
viable and have an economic rate of return over 20 percent.
F.     Environmental Aspects
24. There is no adverse environmental impact associated with the proposed
Engineering Project.  However, the follow-up Petroleum and Power Project
could have the following potential environmental impacts: (a) pollution of
Lake Chad due to oil spillage; (b) dislocation of houses along the pipeline
route; and (c) pollution of surroundings due to oil leaking out through the
refinery liquid waste. The proposed Engineering Project would prepare a full
environmental impact assessment and the project specifications in the tender
documents will be designed accordingly.   The international oil companies
(Esso, Shell and Chevron) who are partners in the joint venture are expected
to provide the latest commercially available technologies and equipment to
minimize the oil content in the liquid waste at every stage of the operation,
and, in any case, to meet international industry norms in this regard.
Periodical analysis of the waste water and recording the results at all
important locations would be made mandatory.  Inspection of these records
would  be  an  important  aspect  of  IDA's  project  supervision.    Such
environmental protection measures and a program satisfactory to IDA for
resettlement of compensation for persons displaced, if any, on account of the
pipeline routing would be conditions for negotiation for the follow-up
Petroleum and Power Project. A positive impact of the project on the



Annex I
Page 9 oZ 11
environment is the availability of LPG from the refinery and Sedigi
associated gas as cooking fuel which will replace charcoal and fuelwood. The
household energy study included in the proposed project will study this
aspect in detail.
G.     Proiect Execution
25. The development of the Sedigi field and production facilities are the
responsibility of the Consortium.   An independent petroleum engineering
consultant financed under the PPF has reviewed the Sedigi field reserves and
has concluded that they are sufficient to warrant the project.  SEERAT would
own and operate the pipeline and the refinery.  Shell, under a technical
assistance contract, would provide key management personnel to SEERAT.  The
state owned power company, STEE, would own the new power generating
facilities. but it is proposed that SEERAT would operate and maintain STEE's
two new generating units which will be integrated into the refinery complex.
This proposal will be reviewed in the course of appraisal of the main
project.  Government would establish a project unit under its Bureau des
Affaires Petroliares du Tchad to monitor the progress of the project. SEERAT
would negotiate a project management consultancy agreement on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA to prepare design, project specifications,
tender documents, evaluation of bids, and perform supervision during
construction and commissioning of the facilities. SEERAT with the assistance
of its share-holding companies would recruit and train personnel for
management, accounting, operation, maintenance, safety, security, pollution
control, etc. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
B.     Procurement.
26. The goods and services to be financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with procedures summarized in Schedule B. Consultants
and technical assistance personnel to be financed by IDA would be appointed
in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines dated August 1981 and would be
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles, equipment
and other material (US$0.30 million) of less than US$10,000 would be procured
through international and local shopping after receipt of price quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers. IDA-financed contracts for amounts
over US$10,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review. Other contracts
will be subject to selective post-award review.
I.     Revolving Fund.
27. To expedite implementation, the Government would establish a Special
Account in a bank in Chad as Revolving Funds for IDA's contribution. An
initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent would be made from the proceeds of
the proposed credit upon effectiveness. Details of the establishment and
operation of the Special Account and other disbursement procedures have been
agreed. The minimum replenishment application would be US$50,000.



Annex I
Page 10 of 11
J.     Disbursement.
28. Since the bulk of the project is composed of consultancy services,
short-term technical assistance and training, disbursement would be over a
much shorter period than the average disbursement profile for technical
assistance projects in the Africa Region.   Retroactive financing will be
limited  to  about  10 percent  of  the  credit.    SEERAT would have  the
responsibility for the preparation of wtthdrawal applications for all
components.
K.     Monitoring. Reporting and Audits
29. SEERAT would submit to the Association progress reports on all
activities financed under the credit and quarterly reports on the
implementation of the project in a format acceptable to the Association.
After completion of the project, SEERAT would submit a completion report no
later than 6 months after the credit closing date. The Government and SEERAT
would select an independent auditor satisfactory to the Association, to
prepare annual audits of the project's accounts, including the Special
Account. Audit reports will be due six months after the end of each fiscal
year.
L.     Actions Taken and Agreements Reached
30. The following actions have been taken:
A. By ROC:
(a)    establishment of a project unit within the Bureau des Affaires
P4trolibres to supervise and monitor the preparation and
implementation of the project (para. 25);
(b)    completion of a project environmental impact assessment (para.
24) and initiation of a petroleum products pricing and
electricity tariffication study (para. 11); and
tc)    appointment of three directors to the Board of SEERAT.
B. By SEERAT:
(a)    nomination of a chairman and a managing director (para. 19);
(b)    negotiation of a contract for project management consultancy
(paras. 19 and 25);
(c)    preparation of by-laws; and
(d)    signature of a contract with a managing director.



Annex I
Page 11 os; 11
31.     During negotiations, the major assurances and agreements obtained
were as follows'
A. From ROCs
(a)    no modifications or amendments are to be made to the SEERAT
Convention, the SEERAT shareholders agreement, or SEERAT's by-
laws without IDA's approval;
(b)    arrangements to open a Special Account for SEERAT (para. 27);
(c)    arrangements  for procurement,  disbursement,  auditing and
reporting (para. 29);
(d)    a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between ROC and SEERAT; and
(e)    undertakings to prevent other shareholders of SEERAT irom
exercising unilateral control over SEERAT.
B. From SEERATs
(a)    SEERAT shall not voluntarily dissolve itself; and
(b)    SEERAT  shall  not  enter  into  any  agreement  with  its
shareholders for over $10,000 or with any other persons for
over $500,000 without IDA's consent.
C. From the private shareholders of SEERAT:
(a)    commitment to finance 15 1 of the construction cost of the
refinery and pipeline, up to US$12.5 million.
32.     Conditions of Effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit in addition to
the standard conditions are:
(a)    adoption by SEERAT of internal administrative procedures;
(b)    signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement by the ROC and
SEERAT;
(c)    legal opinion from SEERAT's counsel; and
(d)    a letter affirming that since October 1, 1990, SEERAT has not
taken any action to dissolve itself or to enter into any
significant contracts.
33.     Conditions of disbursement.  Disbursement of Phase 2 funds would be
subject to IDA being satisfied that the main project is technically and
economically justified.



Annex II
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1. Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular
supervision needs for the review of programs reports, procurement action,
audit statements, correspondence, etc.
Borrower's Contributions to Supervision
(a) Progress reports will be submitted by the Bureau des Affaires
Petrolieres on the progress of project implementation.
(b) Annual work plans and budgets will be submitted every six
months, discussed and agreed to in June and December of each
year.
2. Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate         Activity                   Expected Skill  Staff Input
date and                                      Requirements    Staff-weeks
monthlyear
10-12190            Review and approve        Economist,            4.0
key personnel             Geologist,
contract and              Engineer,
project management        Lawyer
contract; approve
subsidiary loan
agreement and SEERAT's
internal administrative
procedures; review
environmental study;
review work plan and
budgets.
1-2191            Supervision               Economist,           4.0
mission                   Geologist
Start-up                  Engineer,
activities                Disbursement
officer, Lawyer



Annex II
Page 2 of 2
2-4191            Supervision mission        Economist,           4.0
Discuss and agree on     Financial
work plans and budgets;  analyst
review petroleum
pricing and power
tariff studies.
5-9/91            Review progress           Economist,            4.0
of engineering studies   Financial
and the receipt of        analyst,
bids, etc.                Engineer



18R0 22229
\ v            >>^         L ~~I  B  Y  A
C H A D 
PETROLEUM / POWER  \ \ 
PROJECT                f   \    '-'
whin foads               N     I
Seodryoads               %% lt..or OUO
.---Ofheerods                 /    \
Riven 
___Porar bution Blcs                        - 
EL] oInstmoionum boundaris l   
Projed:                   j\_,                    ,      
PI@ipteiino            ry0 io                       -, H18ORKOU ENNF;171FTJ
"bRoiey                  LLJ\ 
POw  -er PlS             |, v                                          i CGo
Explorcdion 9bcks:     U j              _ s                                                    i
Oi    c' m H                                                        I. c     
o    s0 too    lao   200    ow  .                     B           '          S
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'    lil   12   '5    .X        ~            _        S    rt           <1 ~~ 
{ S 11 1K  A    tV E  M  /.tt ,I E_s
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
N  I G EU"\ D   A    N
CN   R I                                                            1990
A M E R 2,t~~) i &=DidE 1 MA9
,  s  z 1,5 on r X , -s EN



