                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25087

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-21840)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR$7.9 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                                                 FOR A

                        PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT




                                               June 4, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective April 14, 2002)

                            Currency Unit = CFA Franc (FCFA)
                               FCFA 1.00 = US$ 0.001
                                    US$ 1 = 740 FCFA

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     =     Country Assistance Strategy
CCCE    =     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DCA     =     Development Credit Agreement
EIB     =     European Investment Bank
ESMAP   =     Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
FOB     =     Free on Board
GEF     =     Global Environment Facility
ICR     =     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     =     International Development Association
IMF     =     International Monetary Fund
LPG     =     Liquified Petroleum Gas
MOP     =     Memorandum of President
PAD     =     Project Appraisal Document
PPF     =     Project Preparation Facility
QAG     =     Quality Assurance Group
SEERAT  =     Société d'Etude et d'Exploitation de la Raffinerie du Tchad
STEE    =     Société Tchadienne d'Eau et d'Electricité

                            Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
               Country Manager/Director:       Ali M. Khadr
                Sector Manager/Director:       M. Ananda Covindassamy
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Michel Layec

                                            CHAD
                 PETROLEUM AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P000528                                                      Project Name: CHAD PETROLEUM AND POWER
                                                                         ENGINEERING
Team Leader: Michel E. Layec                                             TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 4, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: CHAD PETROLEUM AND POWER                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-21840
                            ENGINEERING
   Country/Department: CHAD                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Oil and gas (50%); Power (50%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/31/1989                                        Effective: 03/15/1991              03/15/1991
   Appraisal:    12/08/1989                                            MTR:
    Approval:    11/20/1990                                         Closing: 12/31/1995               12/31/2001

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/SEERAT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Franco Batzella
Country Director:          Ali Khadr                                           T.S. Nayar
Sector Manager:            Praful Patel                                        F. Elejade
Team Leader at ICR:        Michel E. Layec
ICR Primary Author(s): Michel E. Layec


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Petroleum and Power Engineering Project- the Engineering Project or the Project-, did not
explicitly have a development objective with an expected outcome as such. Rather, it had a
proposed set of outputs which, for the purposes of this ICR, are considered to be the Project
objective. This objective according to the Memorandum of the President (1990), was to complete
the preparation of a proposed follow-up investment project -- the Petroleum and Power Project,
also known and referred to in this document as the Sedigi Project. The Engineering Project's
objective was in line with both the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the
Government's energy strategy at the time. The focus of the CAS was on channeling the country's
scarce financial resources to the most essential development projects ­ (a) resource mobilization;
(b) least-cost development of energy supply; (c) development of energy sector institutions; and
(d) rationalization of energy sector policies. The Government's strategy was to develop the Sedigi
hydrocarbon field, a small field north of Lake Chad; transport the oil extracted to Chad's capital
city of N'Djamena via a 320-km pipeline; process the oil in a mini-refinery with an output of 3,000
barrels per day; and use a large portion of the refinery output to fuel a new power station
alongside the refinery. The combined new petroleum and electricity facilities were to provide
Chad with the least-cost solution for meeting Chad's energy needs.

The Engineering Project's objective was clear and responded to the country's adverse energy
supply situation. Chad desperately needed an alternative to imported oil, which was prohibitively
expensive due to the country's landlocked position. The cost of petroleum products, at around
US$50 million/year, was equivalent to about 45 percent of export earnings. The need to transport
refined petroleum products 1000 miles from the nearest port (Cameroon) resulted in a landed cost
of around US$400 per ton, consisting of the FOB price at the port in Cameroon plus US$178 per
ton for road handling and transport to the capital city N'Djamena. By comparison, preliminary
estimates at the time of project preparation (1990) indicated that the cost of products from the
proposed Sedigi refinery was about half the cost of imports (US$200 per ton).

The discovery of the Sedigi oil field had resulted from a long history of exploratory efforts that
had begun in 1970. The field was too small (about 20 millions of barrels) of proven and probable
reserves for export but the economics were favorable for domestic use. On the petroleum side, an
independent consultant had determined that Sedigi's reserves were sufficient to meet the needs of
an investment in the Sedigi Project. Proven reserves were about 12 billion barrels. Two wells
were to produce a total of about 2,000 barrels per day for seven years which was equivalent to
about 80 percent of total domestic petroleum consumption at the time of appraisal of about 2,400
barrels per day. The planned refinery was to produce gasoline, diesel oil and fuel oil as a substitute
for higher cost imported diesel oil in power generation and for use in other industries.
Furthermore, the expected production of LPG from the refinery had some potential for replacing
other household fuels such as wood and kerosene.

On the electricity side, prospects for power system expansion depended significantly on the
success of the Sedigi development and the construction of the related power station. This project
offered Chad the opportunity to reduce fuel costs and tariffs, making power more affordable.
These new facilities along with an ongoing rehabilitation program of existing facilities focused on
assuring reliable power supply at least cost. The national power and water company, the Societe
Tchadienne d' Eau et d' Electricite (STEE) was operating four isolated networks ­ one based in



                                                - 2 -

N'Djamena and the three smaller systems in other major towns. The power plant in N'Djamena
had an installed capacity of 20.5 MW or about 70 percent of total power system capacity in the
country. Years of political turmoil had damaged existing power facilities. Some of the diesel
generating units in N'Djamena required urgent maintenance and in other areas power plant
failures had resulted from lack of preventive maintenance and spare parts. At the time of the
Engineering Project appraisal, STEE was receiving technical assistance for system rehabilitation
and management improvement. The company had also entered into a management contract with
a French company, which was receiving financing from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) of France.

To implement the Engineering Project and the follow-up investment project - the Sedigi Project-,
the Government of Chad and IDA agreed to create the Societe d'Etude et d'Exploitation de la
Raffinerie du Tchad (SEERAT), a company jointly owned by the public and the private sectors.
At the inception of the Engineering Project, the Government of Chad owned 51 percent of the
shares and a consortium of three oil companies --Esso, Chevron, and Shell (the Consortium)
owned the remaining 49 percent. This company was to operate under the Bureau of Petroleum
Affairs and monitor progress in the Engineering Project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

At the request of the Borrower, in August 2000, IDA amended the project's initial objectives to
use the remaining balance of the IDA Credit of US$3.5 million to meet the emergency needs of
the power and water sectors. IDA amended Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement
for the project's objectives to read as follows: "..The objectives of the project are : (i) to assist
the Borrower and SEERAT to undertake all the preparations necessary for the construction of the
Facilities (including preparation of their construction bid solicitation packages) and supervision of
their construction within a sound institutional, macroeconomic and environmental framework; and
(ii) to assist the Borrower and STEE to implement an emergency rehabilitation program for the
electricity and water supply sectors."

IDA accepted the Government's rationale for revising the initial objectives of the Project. At the
time of such revision, and following consultations with the Bank, the Government decided to
proceed with the Sedigi Project on its own and, in any case, it was unlikely that the initiation of
the construction of the Sedigi Project would take place by the closing date of the Credit (2000).
Therefore, the resources allocated to carry out Part II of the Engineering Project -- construction
supervision and commissioning of the follow up Sedigi Project were no longer necessary. At the
same time also, Chad's electricity and water sectors were facing a very serious crisis that
threatened all economic and social activities in the country. In the power sector, Chad's power
utility could not adequately operates its facilities due to the physical condition of the generating
units and the high costs of imported petroleum products. In the water sector, supply cuts had
resulted from STEE's inability to maintain water facilities or afford the high cost of the petroleum
products that the stations used to pump water. To ensure the continued provision of electricity
and water Services there were no short-term alternatives to using the funds available in the
Engineering Credit.

3.3 Original Components:



                                                 - 3 -

According to the original statement of objectives in the project's Memorandum of the President
(MOP), the Engineering Project was to consist of two phases. Phase I was to finance the
engineering, economic, pricing and environmental studies required to confirm the technical,
eonomic and financial feasibility of the Sedigi Project, and design and implement the Sedigi
Project. Upon completion of these studies and confirmation of the costs and economic/financial
viability of the proposed Sedigi Project, IDA was to return to its Board with an investment
project that would finance the construction of the refinery, pipeline, and power facilities. Phase
II of the Engineering Project was also to finance project management, and some of the
operational costs of SEERAT as well as the costs of supervising and commissioning the pipeline,
refinery and power facilities. However, IDA was to disburse the funds earmarked for Phase II
only after Phase I had demonstrated the technical, economic, environmental and financial viability
of the Sedigi Project. The Phase II funds were included in the Engineering Project as Chad needed
bridge financing to cover financing requirements up to the effectiveness of the Sedigi Project.

The preparatory work in Phase I of the Petroleum and Power Engineering Project was to finance
the following activities:

(a)     revision of cost estimates and possible modification of the project's configuration to
incorporate new data on the quality of Sedigi crude oil        based on drilling and testing results;
(b)     preparation of engineering designs, duty specifications and drawings in sufficient detail to
prepare three separate sets of tender documents        for the refinery, pipeline and power plant
components;
(c)     evaluation of supply and installation bids for the detailed engineering, procurement and
erection of facilities;
(d)     preparation of an environmental assessment;
(e)     studies related to pricing of petroleum products and power tariffs;
(f)     tudy on the possible utilization of the Sedigi field's associated gas;
(g)     support for ESMAP's household energy study;
(h)     management personnel for SEERAT; and
(i)     office space, materials, equipment, vehicles and other facilities for SEERAT.

Phase II initiation was contingent on the demonstration of the feasibility and viability of the
investment in the Sedigi Project and was to consist mainly of the following activities:

(a)     financing of the local costs of supervision of construction and commissioning of the
project's facilities;
(b)     assistance to SEERAT in the field of operations, maintenance, finance, administration,
safety and security; and
(c)     training of local personnel.

A key condition for disbursing the funds for Phase II was the demonstration of the technical,
economic and financial viability of the Sedigi Petroleum and Power Project and clearance for
appraisal.




                                                 - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:

The amendment of the Project's Development Credit Agreement (DCA) in October 2000, added
the following components to the Engineering Project:

(a)     rehabilitation of power and water supply facilities in N'Djamena;
(b)     provision of expert services for the rehabilitation of power and water supply facilities;
(c)     acquisition of vehicles, goods and equipment, including spare parts and petroleum
products;
(d)     setting up of the basic utility management systems such as metering, billing and customer
management systems, and loss detection;
(e)     upgrading of the accounting and financial management systems; and
(f)     studies to optimize petroleum product procurement and materials management.

These components were reasonable for meeting the project's revised objectives, which focused on
the power and water sectors.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


The ICR has rated Quality at Entry as Satisfactory. There was no evaluation of the quality of
the Engineering Project's original design at entry because the Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
did not exist at the time of project preparation. The ICR finds the quality at entry satisfactory
because the follow-up Sedigi Project: (a) was a priority project for the Government; (b)
supported two key elements of the Bank's CAS --least cost supply of energy and development of
sector institutions; and (c) gave reasonable indications that the follow-up Project would have
economic benefits. In addition, the design of the Engineering Project's components was in line
with project objectives.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Overall Outcome. The ICR has rated the Project's overall outcome as satisfactory, based on
the narrow definition of what the Memorandum of the President said it would acheive, i.e., to
complete the preparation of a proposed follow-up investment project. The fact that during the
course of Project implementation, fundamental disagreements emerged between the World Bank
and the Government on the approach to the follow-up investment project does not, in our view,
invalidate the view that the Project met its objectives, even tough the latter were very modest and
restricted to outputs.

The Project's overall outcome is rated as satisfactory for the following three main reasons. First,
the Engineering Project met its main initial objective, which was to complete the preparatory
sectoral, engineering, economic and financial works required for the appraisal and financing of a
potential follow-up investment in the Sedigi Project. The Engineering Project was therefore
essentially a preparatory facility which was to provide for the completion of the engineering and
investment preparatory work. Such preparatory work has been satisfactorily completed and used
by the different public and private companies that have shown interest in constructing the field


                                                  - 5 -

facilities, the pipeline and the refinery. The initiation and disbursements for Phase II of the Project
were clearly contingent upon the demonstration in the context of Phase I of the Project of the
viability of the Sedigi project. Since funds remain to be disbursed by the revised closing date of
2000, the 2000 amendment completed the initial objectives to prevent the collapse of the delivery
of the electricity and water services particularly in the capital city. Second, the Bank's flexibility in
extending the Engineering Project closing date and in amending the Project resulted in a fruitful
and essential policy dialogue in the electricity and downstream petroleum sectors with the
Government and the Donors interested in the electricity sectors that most likely would not have
occurred in a difficult energy sector situation. The Project provided financial resources for Chad
to access much needed external expertise in the areas of institutional reforms of the electricity
sector, alternative regulatory frameworks, assessement of the issues facing the electricity and
water sectors. Such assessments provided the elements for an informed dialogue between the
Government and the Donors. The Engineering Project also led to the preparation of the Critical
Electricity and Water Services Rehabilitation Project, approved by the Board in October, 2002
which builds upon reforms implemented previously in the electricity and water sectors. However
project implementation suffered of the Bank's delays in decision making and of its hesitations on
the conditions for its financial support to the follow-up Sedigi Project. Third, the amendment
approved in August 2000, which revised the Project initial objectives, led to the implementation of
a limited but critical rehabilitation program and assistance to the electricity and water sectors.
Such program consisted in the: (a) rehabilitation of some electricity generating units essential to
prevent the collapse of the electricity production in N'Djamena, the capital city; (b) essential
maintenance of the key electricity generating units; (c) purchase of critical spare parts; and (d)
purchase of petroleum products. These actions proved critical to ensure delivery of critical
electricity and water services in the capital city albeit on a limited scale.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Since the project did not have a Project Appraisal Document (PAD), according to ICR guidelines,
the ICR should review the project's contribution to the relevant key thematic areas in the Bank
(Annex 5).

Macroeconomic Objectives. The ICR has rated the impact on macroeconomic objectives
as modest. Although the Project did not contain explicit macroeconomic objectives, the
completion of the preparation work for the Sedigi Project was clearly important for the future of
domestic oil production, the distribution of refined petroleum products in Chad and a significant
decrease in electricity tariffs. Domestic oil production was to be a key factor in reducing the
energy cost of developing a modern economy in Chad (construction of the Doba crude export
project started in 2001) and liberalization of petroleum imports and prices was also important to
the economy (prices liberalization was effective in 2001). However, since the main
macroeconomic impacts - related to a decrease in the cost of refined petroleum products and of
electricity services - will depend on the future operation of the Sedigi production and refining
facilities, which were outside the scope of the Engineering Project, the ICR has rated the impact
on macroeconomic objectives as modest.

Physical Objectives.       The ICR has rated the achievement of physical objectives as



                                                   - 6 -

substantial for the amended part of the Credit. The initial Project had no physical objectives
as its objectives were the completion of the engineering, economic and financial work and related
studies concerning petroleum and power pricing necessary to the appraisal of a follow-up project
- the Sedigi Project-. By 1993 all of this preparatory work was completed. Although the potential
follow-up Sedigi Project did not materialize as a Bank project as quickly as expected, some of the
companies interested in the implementation of the Sedigi project used the design work completed
under the Engineering Project to construct the production facilities at the Sedigi field and the
pipeline to transport the oil to N' Djamena. Construction of the Sedigi oil field facilities and of the
oil pipeline between Sedigi and N'Djamena is underway. The Government is also currently
negotiating with investors for financing, constructing and managing the refinery. Following the
October 2000 amendment, the Project also financed the emergency rehabilitation of the STEE
power and water supplies facilities, the acquisition of spare parts and of petroleum products. This
financing allowed essential services of electricity and water supply to be maintained. As the
physical objectives of the amended credit were fully met, the ICR has rated the achievement of
physical objectives of the amended credit as substantial.

Public Sector Management. The ICR has rated the public sector management achievement
as substantial. Originally the Project was to support capacity-building of the public sector for
petroleum development through a partnership with the private sector regarding financial support
and technical expertise. However, during the Engineering Project's implementation, the Bank,
the Government and the donor community interested in Chad's energy sector agreed that an
increased role of the private sector in the petroleum sector was essential and correspondingly that
the role of the public sector in the Sedigi Project should be significantly reduced. On that basis,
the Governement decided that it should accept a minority position in the SEERAT company and
to ask the oil consortium to take the majority position and the related technical and commercial
risks. This was done in 1996. Therefore, the ICR has rated the public sector management
achievement of the Project as Substantial.

Sector Policy Development. The ICR has rated the project's contribution to sector policy
development as substantial. The Project completed studies on petroleum pricing and tariff
policy. These studies focused on ensuring economic pricing and on providing a conducive sector
framework for private sector development. The Project provided resources and the focus that
allow a continued and fruitful dialogue between the public and the private partners and the donor
community. Thus overall, the project's contribution to sector policy development is rated as
substantial.

Private Sector Development.          The ICR has rated the achievement of private sector
development objectives as substantial. At the time of project appraisal, the Engineering
Project's objective for private sector development was: (a) the strengthening of public sector
capacity in oil and gas development; and (b) technical expertise and financing to be provided by
the private sector. During the 1995-2000 period, the Engineering Project became the main vehicle
for mobilizing the private sector in taking the lead role in the development of Chad's oil and gas
resources. Discussions in 1995 during the preparation of the Sedigi Project led to a substantial
change in the project's philosophy and structure. In 1996 a Consortium made of Exxon, Shell and
Elf agreed to lead the project and to take a majority position (51%) in SEERAT, the project



                                                 - 7 -

company.

The consortium imposed however several conditions to its participation and financing, including
the preparation on a shared cost basis, of its own financial, engineering and environmental studies
and linked the implementation of the Sedigi Project to the implementation of a larger petroleum
project in southern Chad, the Doba project. Concurrent with the preparation of the
domestically-oriented Sedigi Project at a cost of about US$112 million, the Bank also was in the
process of preparing the multi-billion dollar Doba project for export, involving the same
Consortium of oil companies. In 1996, negotiations between the Consortium and Chad finally
resulted in a formal linkage between the developments of both the Sedigi and Doba fields,
reflected in the contractual agreements. The Consortium agreed to take the majority share in the
financing and implementation of the Sedigi project subject to several conditions, including
satisfactory conclusion of a concession agreement for the development of the Doba oil fields and
agreement of the Government to pledge some of its royalties from the Doba project to the
Consortium as a guarantee against political risks on the Sedigi project. In 1998, after two years of
discussions, the Consortium, the Government, the Bank and the donors finally agreed to a
financing plan. However there were delays in the implementation of that plan due to protracted
negotiations in the appraisal and financing of the Doba project.

Finally, at the end of 1999, frustrated by years of delays, the Government decided to proceed
without the Consortium and the Bank for the construction of the Sedigi project and to built the
Sedigi production facilities and the oil pipeline with financing from Taiwan and the assistance of a
contractor from Sudan. The refinery facilities were initially to be financed by the Sudanese
company; however this did not materialize and a private sponsor for the refinery remains to be
selected. The Government also disolved the SEERAT company. During 2000-2001, the Sudanese
contractor initiated the construction of the oil production facilities and the 320-km oil pipeline.
However deficiencies in the welding and protection of the pipeline have been found and remedial
actions were defined in 2002 by experts from Algeria.

The ICR has rated the achievement of private sector development objectives as substantial
because of: (i) the Project's overall role in supporting private sector participation in the
development of Chad's oil resources and of the Sedigi's oil resources in particular, and (ii) the fact
that the capacity built are still benefitting Chad despite the dismantlement of SEERAT.

Environmental Development.            The ICR has rated the achievement of environmental
objectives as substantial. The original environmental assessment (EA) that the Engineering
Project prepared in 1991 contributed to the design of the project particularly on pipeline routing
around Lake Chad and concluded that the follow up Sedigi Project would have no major adverse
impact on the environment and in particular would not disturb populated areas and Lake Chad.
This first EA was reviewed and approved by the Bank. However by the time of the agreed revised
project arrangement with the oil Consortium, in 1998, there was a need to update the
environmental assessment, especially to reflect the Bank revised environmental guidelines and the
concerns regarding the strategy for minimizing gas flaring and in particular its use for power
generation which the Government fully endorsed. A second EA was therefore prepared under
the supervision of the Consortium. The conclusions of both EAs regarding the design of the



                                                  - 8 -

facilities and the pipeline routing to minimize environmental impacts in particular on Lake Chad
have been incorporated in the different designs. Therefore, the ICR has rated the achievement of
environmental objectives as substantial.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The calculation of an economic rate of return (ERR) was not applicable to the Petroleum Engineering
Project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable to this project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


The ICR has rated the institutional development impact as modest. The project created
SEERAT, a public/private sector partnership with the sole purpose of preparing the Sedigi Project
and supervising its construction. The SEERAT company had the following initial share
distribution: Government of Chad, 51 percent; Shell, 19.6 percent; Esso Production, Inc., 19.6
percent; and Elf Oil Africa, 9.8 percent. In 1998, the new oil consortium took a majority position
in SEERAT. Project supervision reports indicate that the performance of SEERAT in the
preparation of engineering work, bidding documents and various studies was highly satisfactory.
However, due to the change in the structure of the project, the withdrawal at the end of 1999 of
the Bank and of the Consortium from the implementation of the project, the relatively high cost of
maintaining SEERAT, and considerable delays in the appraisal of the Sedigi Project, the
Government decided to dismantle the company. This was effected in 2001.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The implementation of the Engineering Project was impacted by the changing conditions set by
the Bank and the donors to appraise and finance the follow-up project, a lack of strong private
sector interested in the project, the reported smuggling of petroleum products from Nigeria,
concerns about recoverable reserves and project economic and financial risks and the need to find
an acceptable solution to handling the associated gas. These issues are further discussed below.

(i) Changing Bank/Donor Conditions for Appraisal and Financing of the Follow-up Project
(the Sedigi Project). The conditions set by the Bank and the donors for proceeding with
appraisal changed during the implementation of the Engineering project. With the completion of
the engineering work, bidding documents and remaining studies in 1993, the Bank had then
planned to move toward the appraisal of the follow-up project. And in that case, the construction
of the project's facilities would have taken place in a short time. However, due to political unrest
and poor economic performance, during the 1993-94 period the Bank reduced project activity in
Chad to a minimum. When work on the preparation of Sedigi resumed again in 1995, changes in
Bank/Donor policies and on project conditions for going forward with the Sedigi project resulted
in: (a) the need to revise the original preparatory work; (b) delays in the completion of the



                                                     - 9 -

revised preparatory work; and (c) the decision of the Bank to reduce its participation in the
follow-up Sedigi Project. In early 2000, the decision of the Government not to proceed with the
agreed project, as designed and to be financed by the Consortium, the Bank, and donor
organizations, resulted in the withdrawal of the Bank with respect to the financing of the
construction of the Sedigi facilities and therefore in abandonment of Phase II of the Engineering
Project. Table 1 below provides a brief chronology of the project key events, showing the
changing conditions that affected the approval and implementation of the Sedigi Project.

Table 1: Chronology of Key Events in Project Implementation

1991          The Bank declares the Engineering Project effective.
1993-94       The Bank reduces its project activity in Chad to a minimum because of adverse political
              and macroeconomic situations and set conditions for resuming appraisal for the Sedigi
              Project.
1995-96       Preparatory work for the Engineering Project resumes. The focus turns to financial
              engineering and whether the private sector or the Government should take the lead in the
              project. The Consortium agrees to take the lead in the Sedigi Project subject to a set of
              conditions to protect their investment. The Bank decides not to continue its appraisal of the
              Sedigi Project and limit its participation to financing of the updating of studies and Phase II
              of the Engineering Project.
1997-99       The Bank, the donors and the Government agree to a revised financing plan for a Sedigi
              Project costing US$ 112 million. The Government drops the power plant component due to
              the lack of private consortium interest, poor power sector performance, and the need for
              simplifying the Sedigi Project.
2000-2001     The Government decides to implement the field development and the oil pipeline on its own
              with a Sudanese company and with funds from Taiwan. A private sector company was to be
              selected to finance, build and operate the refinery. As a result, the Bank agrees to Chad's
              request to allocate the remaining undisbursed Project funds (US$3.5 million) to emergency
              needs of the power and water supply sectors.
2001          Project is closed at end of CY2001.


(ii) Lack of Strong Private Oil Consortium Interest in the Sedigi Project. Project supervision
reports indicate that the oil consortium was hesitant about the Sedigi project because it was small
and for the domestic market only and that they agreed to participate in this relatively small project
at a cost of about US$110 million mainly to keep their position in the large, export-oriented Doba
project. This project, which the Bank and the Government began preparing in 1993 and was
approved by the Banks' Directors on June 2000 , is estimated to cost US$3.7 billion. It is to drill
about 300 wells in the Doba field which has proven reserves of about 917 million barrels and
construct a 1,070 kilometer pipeline from the Doba fields to Cameroon's Atlantic coast port for
export. Over a 28 -year period, the Doba project is expected to generate US$1.8 billion of
revenue for Chad and US$550 million in revenue for Cameroon. The economic rates of return are
70 percent for Chad and about 40 percent for Cameroon. The Consortium's original efforts to
minimize its position in the Sedigi project conflicted with the Bank/Donor interest in maximizing
its participation and this delayed the Sedigi Project's appraisal. By 1996 the Consortium had
finally agreed to take the majority share in the project, subject to further confirmation of economic
and financial viability and successful conclusion of negotiations for Doba field development. At
the same time, the Consortium had an impact on the configuration of the project. It also wanted
to limit the downstream costs to US$70-75 million, meaning a project that included a pipeline and



                                                       - 10 -

a refinery only, excluding the proposed power plant. The oil consortium also conditioned its
financial contribution to the Sedigi project to the Bank's approval of the Doba project.

(iii) Reported Smuggling of Petroleum Products. During project implementation, a report
confirmed that the smuggling of petroleum products accounted for about 60 percent of gasoline
and 30 percent of diesel oil consumed. As a result, established companies operating legally were
finding it difficult to do business in Chad. The high and persistent levels of smuggling of
petroleum products particularly from Nigeria had a significant impact on the progress of the
project, as it led to additional analysis and the need for guarantees to be provided by Chad.

(iv) Concern about Petroleum Reserve Levels and Sedigi Project Economics. The
Consortium based is economic analysis on recoverable reserves of 12-15 million barrels.
However, it was not prepared to guarantee that output. At the same time another study had
indicated reserves of only 5.1 million barrels. Although the financial and economic rates of return
on 5 million barrels of reserves were acceptable, the significant discrepancy in the reserve figures
caused concerns to the Bank and the donor community.                To resolve the discrepancy an
independent petroleum reserve certification was commissioned. Such audit validated the oil
reserves at 12 million barrels.

(v) Need to Find an Environmentally Acceptable Solution for Handling Associated Gas. In
updating the original environmental assessment and its mitigation plan, it was important to find
an environmentally acceptable solution for handling the gas associated with the production of
Sedigi's oil. Project preparation work had found that natural gas accounted for about 40 percent
of the hydrocarbon energy in the Sedigi field. The alternatives for handling the gas consisted of
flaring it, re-injecting it or finding productive uses for it. Although re-injection for storage was
technically possible, it was a very costly option ( US$25-30 million) and geological studies had
raised questions about the reliability of such storage. At the same time, the flaring of gas was to
have adverse environmental consequences. So in 1998, the Bank and Borrower prepared a
proposal to receive funding from the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) to evaluate the
economic benefits to using natural gas for power generation and as a substitute for woodfuels by
households and institutions. The GEF provided a grant for the completion of the study in the
amount of US$ 290,000 in November 1999.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The implementation of the Engineering Project was also impacted by the political instability and
poor macroeconomic performance of Chad, the links between the implementation of the Sedigi
project and of the Doba project and by the decision of the Government to proceed with the
implementation of the Sedigi project without World Bank financial participation. The impacts of
these factors are further discussed below.

(i) Political Instability and Poor Macroeconomic Performance.                  During the project's
implementation, political instability and poor macroeconomic performance caused the Bank to
drastically reduce the level of activity on the project. This also caused the Bank to establish
macroeconomic conditions for the resumption of preparatory activities and eventual participation
in the Sedigi project. The Bank conditioned its support on actual improvements of


                                                    - 11 -

macroeconomic performance, which joint Bank and IMF missions were monitoring. The lack of
adequate progress on the macroeconomic front delayed project implementation activity by about
two years.

(ii) Linkage of Oil Consortium Participation in the Doba Project to Participation in the
Sedigi Project.       In order to attract the Consortium's interest in oil for domestic use, the
Government decided that the Concession Agreement for the Doba project was to contain
provision for the oil consortium to implement the Sedigi Project within the same time frame as the
Doba project. It was also agreed that progress on the preparation of the Sedigi project was to be
linked to progress on the Doba project. While this linkage appeared advantageous to attract the
private partner, the delay in approval of the Doba project had an adverse impact on the timing of
the Sedigi Project.

(iii) Contracting         for Sedigi Development without Bank/Donor Involvement. The
Government of Chad, highly motivated to proceed with the Sedigi Project, became frustrated with
continuous delays by the Bank, the donors and the oil company consortium in committing to the
project's financing. So the Government looked for other financing options. Ultimately, in 2000,
the Government (with funding from Taiwan) contracted with a Sudanese company to: develop
the Sedigi oil field; construct an oil pipeline from the field to N'Djamena; and build a refinery. By
the end of 2001, the Sudanese company had completed the wellhead production facilities at Sedigi
and much of the 320 kilometers of pipeline. However a significant portion of the pipeline welding
and pipeline protection apparently was defective and needed remedial work. Furthermore, the
Sudanese company ran out of funds to construct the mini-refinery that was going to refine the
crude oil from Sedigi.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The main factors subject to control by the implementing agency, SEERAT, were the completion
of original preparatory work for the Sedigi Project and effective monitoring of the construction
and commissioning of the Sedigi Project's facilities. Project supervision reports indicate the
company's performance was satisfactory in completion of the Phase I engineering and tendering
work. However, since the follow-up Sedigi Project did not materialize, SEERAT could not
become involved with construction or commissioning. Ultimately the Government dismantled this
organization, since it originally had formed the company to prepare and monitor the
implementation of the Sedigi project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project's original cost estimate at appraisal was US$14.5 million equivalent. Early in the
project expected co-financing (US$3 million from the EIB) did not materialize. The project scope
and costs and financing need were then revised to US$11.0 million. Actual costs were about
US$10.7 million, mainly due to the deletion of the household energy study which was financed
through an ESMAP grant and the lower cost for project design work than originally expected.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:



                                                    - 12 -

The ICR has rated the sustainability of the Project as likely for four reasons. First, the Project
successfully completed its engineering work and related studies which have been used for the construction
of the Sedigi Project and for consultations on the refinery component. Second, the preparatory work
carried out under the Engineering Credit confirmed the technical and economic viability of the Sedigi
Project, i.e. the investment in field facilities, pipeline and refinery will produce refined petroleum products
for Chad reliably and at prices significantly below imports for Cameroon and Nigeria. Third, as noted
below, despite the Bank and the Consortium withdrawal from the financing of the Sedigi Project, the
Government has remained very highly committed to the development of the Sedigi Project and is currently
negotiating with a company to complete in a satisfactory manner the construction work for the oil field and
the pipeline facilities and looking for a partner to finance, build and operate the refinery. Fourth, during the
past two years, the Bank has increased its involvement in the petroleum and the electricity sectors and
reached agreements with the Government that are supporting the development of the Sedigi Project. In
particular in the context of the Critical Electricity and Water Services Rehabilitation Project approved by
the Board in October 2002 the Government will submit to IDA all proposed agreements related to the
implementation of the Sedigi Project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The focus of the Engineering Project was on producing a technical, economic, environmental and financial
information base that the Government could use to promote private sector participation in the development
of the Sedigi oil field. Originally the transition to regular operation was to be the implementation of the
Sedigi Project with financing from an international consortium of oil companies, the Bank and various
donor agencies. This plan would have required the project to meet internationally accepted standards of
construction and operation.      However, after a long period of waiting for Bank/Donor approval and
financing the Government decided to move forward on its own and to contract with a company to handle
the project.

Despite past difficulties, since 2000, there are several significant developments that have provided a
reasonable indication that the completion of the facilities at Sedigi will take place subject to sound
engineering, economic environmental and financial considerations. First, Government authorities have been
negotiating with investors concerning the Sedigi Project. These investors reportedly are prepared to
finance, construct, and operate a refinery using Sedigi oil as well as to take over the management and
operation of the oil production facilities and the oil pipeline. Second, the Government and the Bank have
come to an agreement concerning the Sedigi Project in a covenant to the Critical Electricity and Water
Services Rehabilitation Project (approved by the Bank's Board in October 2002). This covenant stipulates
that the Government will submit to IDA, for its prior review and approval, all agreements related to the
financing, construction, management and operation of the mini-oil refinery and the Sedigi-N"Djamena
pipeline facilities, including the related environmental management plans. Third, as part of the same
project, the Government has agreed to ensure that the associated gas from the Sedigi oil field is put to its
best economic use. Fourth, there are two projects under implementation -- the Management of the
Petroleum Economy Project and the Petroleum Sector Management Capacity-Building Project -- that
should help provide a framework for effectively managing the country's oil resources and improving the
Government's capacity to negotiate constructs with private investors.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


                                                        - 13 -

The Bank's performance in project lending was satisfactory. Prior to the Project the Bank had done
some preparatory work for an investment operation related to the development of the Sedigi's oil resources.
However, considering that the Sedigi Project was to be the first petroleum project in Chad,            it was
reasonable that the Bank would want to proceed cautiously and initially focus only on preparatory work
through an Engineering Project before committing to a relatively large project in the order of US$100
million. Furthermore, the Sedigi Project responded to a priority need for viable alternatives to high- cost
imports and was consistent with the focus of the CAS on least-cost energy development and support of
institutional development. The Project's approach to institutional development was sound considering the
country context of Chad. The Bank recognized that the development of a small field for local use was likely
to be of interest mainly to Chad and the strategy was to build a domestic capability to appraise oil
development projects and effectively negotiate with international oil companies for field exploration and
development.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance in project lending was satisfactory. The supervision of the project spanned
about 10 years. Given periods of low activity on the project, its small size, and changes in Bank priorities
for Chad, the files on the project itself are scant compared to most projects that have been active more than
a decade. Also the project files show the number of supervision missions fewer than usual for Bank
projects. This is because Phase I of the project was complete just a couple of years after effectiveness and
there was therefore not much supervision required. However the Bank did prepare yearly project status
reports and was involved with other energy projects during the project implementation period. Furthermore,
staff working on Chad's energy sector, who had been involved with the project since its inception, provided
an institutional memory that was valuable in the preparation of the ICR. As indicated in Table 2, the Bank
demonstrated considerable flexibility in extending the deadline for project closing four times, in an attempt
to help the Borrower conclude the proposed Sedigi project's preparation. This flexibility proved to be very
important as it allowed to maintain the dialogue with the Government, and to deepen the understanding of
the issues facing the petroleum and electricity sectors. With respect to the electricity and water sectors,
these extensions allow time for the Government to decide that private management of the electricity and
water sectors was the preferred approach - the selection of a private concessionaire for the electricity and
water sector was carried out in 2000 - and also to provide critical financing to prevent the collapse of both
sectors through the credit amendment of 2000.




                                                      - 14 -

 Table 2: Summary of Project Closing Date Extensions

 Extension 1: From December 31 , 1995 to December 31, 1996
 Balance of Funds:
 Purpose and Project Status:

 The Project was extended to complete the preparatory studies, which had begun again in 1994 after a
 period of low activity during 1992-94 due to Bank conditions for project disbursements. The focus of the
 design at this point was whether the Consortium of private oil companies or the Government should take
 the lead role in the project . The Borrower was to focus on reducing costs and the consortium was to take a
 more active role in project design. At the end of the extension period there were questions about the size of
 the reserves and their impact on the Sedigi Project's economics.
 Extension 2: From December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1998
 Balance of Funds: US$ 5.7 million
 Purpose and Project Status

 The purpose of the extension was to update preparatory activities and prepare a new financing plan. At this
 point the Bank had decided that it would limit its participation on the project to the preparatory activities
 under the Engineering Credit.The oil consortium had agreed to finance 51% of the costs of the Sedigi
 Project and Chad was to look for other donors to finance the remainder of the estimated investments costs
 of US$80 million. The balance of the Project's funds was to finance Chad's share of project preparation,
 the preparation of tender documents and construction supervision. At the end of the period, the detailed
 engineering of the Sedigi Project was complete and the cost of the project had increased to US$ 112 million
 in 1996 prices including sunk costs. A new financing plan was prepared which included participation from
 the private consortium, the European Investment Bank, the Agence Francaise de Developpement and the
 African Development Bank.
 Extension 3: From December 31, 1998 to December 31, 2000
 Balance of Funds: US$ 4.8 million
Purpose and Project Status:

The remaining preparatory work consisted of : a new environmental assessment/management plan, taking
account of gas utilization options; preparatory project management; detailed engineering of the power plant;
and bid preparation/evaluation. The Bank mentioned that the issues that had delayed appraisal had been
resolved; however ultimately the main reason why the Bank did not go forward with the project was concern
about the Government's implementation capacity.
Extension 4: From December 31, 2000 to December 31, 2001
Balance of Funds: US$ 3.5 million
 Purpose and Project Status:

 The purpose of this fourth extension was to support Chad in preventing the collapse of the electricity and
 water supply services by financing emergency rehabilitation of the electricity generation units, purchase of
 essential spare parts and petroleum products.



 7.3 Overall Bank performance:

 The overall Bank performance was satisfactory in terms of Phase I of the project as the Bank continued
 to change its position regarding the follow-up investment project and to add new conditions which led to
 delays and frustrated the Government. As noted above, Phase II did not take place because its
 implementation was contingent upon satisfactory appraisal and implementation decision of the Sedigi
 Project.


                                                         - 15 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Overall preparatory work by the Borrower was satisfactory. The Project had a considerable amount of
preparation by the Borrower with assistance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and the
Consortium. In October 1986, the Government received a US$1 million advance from the PPF to prepare a
feasibility report, an independent assessment of drilling costs, and field reserves and technical assistance in
contract negotiations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government's overall performance in project implementation was satisfactory. The Government
strongly emphasized that the development of the Sedigi field for the domestic market was a top priority.
Throughout the Enginering Project the Government was very responsive to the Bank's evolving views and
conditions for preparing and financing the Sedigi Project. Also, with the exception of some late submission
of audit reports, the Government fully complied with Project covenants.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agency performance was satisfactory. SEERAT, the implementing agency for the
Project, came into existence for the purpose of preparing and administering the Sedigi Project. Project
supervision reports indicate that the implementation of the project's initial engineering studies went
exceptionally well and that SEERAT was running smoothly.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. The Borrower's perception has been that the
present Project only made sense and could be said to have achieved its goals to the extent that the follow-up
Sedigi Project materialized. However, the context in Chad was such that, with the preparation of the
Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project (the Doba Project) which soon became of a higher priority, and because
of differences in views between the Borrower and the Bank concerning the conditions under which to
proceed with the Sedigi Project, a Bank-supported Sedigi Project never materialized as such. While the
World Bank strongly disagreed, and still does, with the Borrower's decision to proceed anyway with the
Sedigi Project as proposed, the view put forward in this ICR is that these should not be considered as an
unsatisfactory performance on the part of the Borrower under the present Project. Finally, this (still very
deep) difference of views on the Sediigi Project explains, in our view, the disconnect between the proposed
rating of the ICR and the Borrower's perception outlined under paragraph 9(a).

8. Lessons Learned


The main lessons learned from this project are:

(i) It is important to tailor assistance to individual country needs rather than try to make a general
Bank policy fit all countries, keeping sight of key objectives such as poverty reduction and improved
quality of life. Chad's country situation had special characteristics that made it an exception to general
policies for petroleum development in Africa. During the project's implementation, the Bank had decided
as a general policy not to participate in any new refinery developments and to even close down refineries in
many small African countries, due to unfavorable economics. Also, there were not many cases where the



                                                    - 16 -

  Bank was financing the development of relatively small oil deposits for domestic use only and there was a
  drive to leave oil development projects mainly to the private sector. In contrast to this general policy, Chad
  seemed to be a model candidate for financing from the Bank and other donors as lenders of last resort.
  First, it was a poor, landlocked country with excessively high import costs that were causing
  macroeconomic disruption and there was a great deal of urgency about the project.                 Second, the
  Government had a high level of commitment to Sedigi's development. Third, it was unlikely that the major
  international oil companies with the expertise for the project would be seriously interested in a small
  deposit with no export potential.

  (ii) Project conditions should be defined clearly during project preparation and should not evolve
  during implementation. Rather than focusing on these special conditions and the urgency for the Project,
  the Bank set new and additional conditions on the project, especially by insisting that private international
  oil companies take the lead in the project when the interest was not there.           This stance forced the
  Government to link the development of the Sedigi Project to the larger export oriented Doba oil Project to
  provide incentives for major oil company involvement in the Sedigi Project. However the protracted
  negotiations for the Doba project and the conditions set by the Doba oil consortium severely delayed the
  development of the urgent Sedigi project until the Government finally decided to seek another alternative
  that was not entirely satisfactory.

  (iii) In a difficult country situation, there can be considerable value to keeping a small technical
  assistance project open and maintaining flexibility in its implementation. Originally the Bank had
  intended the Sedigi Project to follow the Engineering Project within a short period of time and therefore
  included a second phase linked to the follow-up project. Given the substantial delay in appraisal and the
  disbursement lag for Phase II of the Engineering Project, one option would have been to close the project
  and cancel the remaining funds. However, by maintaining flexibility in modifying the Development Credit
  Agreement and providing extensions, the Bank was able to maintain a policy dialogue with Chad in a very
  difficult country situation that included political unrest and deteriorating macroeconomic performance. This
  dialogue eventually led to funds being available in the Engineering Credit to mitigate a very severe crisis in
  the electricity and water sectors.

  (iv) Delays in development projects due to political and economic instability in poor countries that
  depend on external assistance have high costs to the economy and inhibit poverty reduction. At the
  time of project appraisal Chad, and the Bank estimated that the yearly savings in petroleum imports would
  be about US$25 million in 1990 prices. If the Sedigi Project had begun operations as planned the benefits
  would have started to accrue around 1995. Thus the cost of the delay in constant 1990, has been roughly
  US$ 300 million. This amount could have had a substantial impact on income levels and poverty reduction
  and the Bank and other donors should be sensitive to these delays and find ways to respond more rapidly to
  country needs while taking prudent measures to support viable investments.

  (v) Technical Assistance projects should not include implementation components. If a project is
  intended mainly for investment preparation, it is prudent not to include components that risk not being
  implemented. Implementation of Phase II of the engineering project was linked to the demonstration of the
  technical, economic and financial viability of the Sedigi project and in putting together a financing plan.

  9. Partner Comments

  (a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Translation of Comments Received from the Government of Chad on Credit 21840-CD.




                                                        - 17 -

         It is important to state that the IDA Credit no. 21840-CD, usually referenced as the
SEERAT Credit, is one of the Credits financed by IDA that has experienced considerable
difficulties during the appraisal phase, the approval by the IDA's Board as well as during the
implementation phase.
         Indeed this Credit was intended to finance the engineering studies for the construction of
the mini-refinery to be built in N'Djamena. The political and economic conditions had changed at
the time of the effectiveness of the Credit (beginning of 1991). For that reason, the Project had
many different interlocutors on the Chadian side as well as on the IDA side.

         Several discussions regarding the Project were carried out, which led to an amendment
that radically changed the objectives of the Project. \The engineering studies were interrupted and
disbursements were suspended. Pursuing long negotiations the two parties agreed to redefine the
Project and to reallocate the balance of the Credit in order to rehabilitate old electricity power
generating units, the water distribution network and in order to provide technical assistance to
prepare the institutional framework required to carry out the privatization of the sector.

         We can say today, at the end of the Project, that few objectives have been achieved. The
rehabilitation of the water infrastructure has not even started except for the rehabilitation of old
generating units in the electricity sector. No vehicle nor equipments have been purchased through
this Credit except for the engine spare parts and for the petroleum products. The implementation
of the management systems for the public services such as meters, billing and customer
management as well as the detection of water loses have not gone through any changes With
respect to the existing situation of STEE, its condition is very worrisome.

         With respect to the macro-economic impact of the Project, it should be noted that it is
insignificant.

         In terms of the physical objectives, the Project, before its amendment, did not undertake
any significant activity and, following its amendment, only the rehabilitation of the generating
units were carried out. Page 6 of the report states that in 1993, all preparatory studies were
completed, and this is incorrect. The construction of the N'Djamena-Sedigi pipeline did not make
use of the engineering studies that were carried out in the context of the SEDIGI Project.

         Only sectoral policies have been redefined thanks to the financing provided by the Project
after its amendment. This has allowed Chad to rely on a regulatory framework with respect to
potable water and with respect to the energy policy.

         An environmental study on the impact of the development of the SEDIGI oil fields has
been carried out thanks to the Project.

         Finally, it should also be recognized that this Project has been negotiated in a difficult
political context and also that Chad's partners did not demonstrate any special enthusiasm, in
particular the then members of the oil consortium.




                                                 - 18 -

        Upon the date of completion of this Project, the initial request which justified setting up
such Project continues to exist. This is why the Government still explores all the means to satisfy
the demand for petroleum products through the development of the SEDIGI oil fields.

        The reimbursement of this Credit, which has already started, is responsible for increasing
the burden of the debt for Chad without being able to have an economic impact with multiplier
effects capable of generating resources.



(b) Cofinanciers:

None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

None.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                               - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
There were was no indicator matrix for the Infrastructure to use Sedigi oil is built to  The construction of the Sedigi oil production
appraisal of this project because the Bank deliver cheaper petroleum products            facilities and the pipeline are close to
had not yet developed this requirement.                                                  completion; corrective actions have been
                                                                                         identified. The selection of a private sponsor
                                                                                         to finance and operate the refinery is
                                                                                         underway.

                                           Project sustainability is ensured through     Current plans are for the private sector to
                                           private sector management.                    manage the Sedigi production and refinering
                                                                                         facilities.

                                           Private sector financing and                  The Government is negotiating with the
                                           bilateral/multilateral management.            private sector for the construction of the
                                                                                         Sedigi refinery and has secured financing
                                                                                         from the Bank to built the power plant that will
                                                                                         use the crude oil from Sedigi and the refinery
                                                                                         output. To ensure quality control, the
                                                                                         Government, as stipulated in a covenant of
                                                                                         the Critical Electricity and Water Services
                                                                                         Rehabilitation Project, will submit for Bank
                                                                                         approval, the draft agreements for the
                                                                                         construction, management and operation of
                                                                                         the refinery, the Sedigi oil field and pipeline
                                                                                         facilities, along with the related
                                                                                         environmental management plan.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
There were was no indicator matrix for the Not applicable.                               Not applicable.
appraisal of this project because the Bank
had not yet developed this requirement.




1End of project




                                                               - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                   Project Costs by Component

Expenditure Category                                         Appraisal Estimate Revised Estimate  Actual      % of Revised
                                                                 US$ million      US$ million    US$ million   Estimate

Preparation of Project Specifications and Tendering                         2.3              4.2          4.0        96.0%

Household Energy and Gas Utilization Studies                                0.2              0.0          0.0            X

SEERAT Management Staff and Operational Costs                               1.0              1.7          1.4        80.4%

Costs of Real Estate, Office Equipment, and Vehicles                        0.4              0.0          1.2            X

Subtotal, Phase 1                                                           3.9              5.9          6.6       111.7%

Construction and Commissioning, Supervision by Consultants                  1.5              0.0          0.0            X

SEERAT Construction and Commissioning Staff                                 4.0              0.0          0.0            X

Training and Operational Support to SEERAT                                  1.6              0.0          0.0            X

Subtotal, phase 2                                                           7.1              0.0          0.0            X

Basecost Estimates : Phases 1 and 2                                        11.0              5.9          6.6       111.7%

Civil Works                                                                 0.0              0.9          0.2        23.1%

Operating Costs                                                             0.0              0.5          0.0         0.0%

Expert Services                                                             0.0              0.6          0.4        68.3%

Equipement, Goods, Vehicles, etc.                                           0.0              1.8          1.9       102.8%

Total, Emergency Energy Sector Rehabilitation                               0.0              3.8          2.5        66.0%

Physical Contingencies                                                      1.3              0.0          0.0            X

Price Contingencies                                                         0.7              0.0          0.0            X

Subtotal with Contingencies                                                13.0              9.7          9.1        93.9%

Refinancing of PPF                                                          1.5              1.3          1.3            X

Total                                                                      14.5             11.0         10.4        94.5%




                                                                 - 21 -

                    Project Cost by Procurement Method (Appraisal Estimate)

Expenditure Category                                            LIB     Other    N A     Total

Preparation of Project Specifications and Tendering                0.0      2.8     0.0     2.8

Household Energy and Gas Utilization Studies                       0.0      0.2     0.0     0.2

SEERAT Management Staff and Operational Costs                      0.0      1.2     0.0     1.2

Costs of Real Estate, Office Equipment, and Vehicles               0.4      0.0     0.0     0.4

Subtotal, Phase 1                                                  0.4     4.2      0.0     4.6

Construction and Com m issioning, Supervision by Consultants       0.0      1.8     0.0     1.8

SEERAT Construction and Commissioning Staff                        0.0      4.6     0.0     4.6

Training and Operational Support to SEERAT                         0.0      2.0     0.0     2.0

Subtotal, phase 2                                                  0.0      8.4     0.0     8.4

Basecost Estimates : Phases 1 and 2                                0.4    12.6      0.0    13.0

C ivil W orks                                                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0

Operating Costs                                                    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0

Expert Services                                                    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0

Equipem ent, Goods, Vehicles, etc.                                 0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0

Total, Emergency Energy Sector Rehabilitation                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0

Physical Contingencies

Price Contingencies

Subtotal with Contingencies                                        0.4    12.6      0.0    13.0

Refinancing of PPF                                                 0.0      0.0     1.5     1.5

Total                                                              0.4    12.6      1.5    14.5




                                                     - 22 -

                     Project Cost by Procurement Method (revised estimate)

Expenditure Category                                                  LIB       Other       N A      Total

Preparation of Project Specifications and Tendering                       0.0       2.8        0.0      2.8

Household Energy and Gas Utilization Studies                              0.0       0.2        0.0      0.2

SEERAT Management Staff and Operational Costs                             0.0       1.2        0.0      1.2

Costs of Real Estate, Office Equipment, and Vehicles                      0.0       0.1        0.0      0.1

Subtotal, Phase 1                                                        0.0        4.3        0.0      4.3

Construction and Com m issioning, Supervision by Consultants              0.0       1.8        0.0      1.8

SEERAT Construction and Commissioning Staff                               0.0       1.6        0.0      1.6

Training and Operational Support to SEERAT                                0.0       1.8        0.0      1.8

Subtotal, phase 2                                                         0.0       5.2        0.0      5.2

Basecost Estimates : Phases 1 and 2                                       0.0       9.5        0.0      9.5

Civil W orks                                                              0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0

Operating Costs                                                           0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0

Expert Services                                                           0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0

Equipem ent, Goods, Vehicles, etc.                                        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0

Total, Emergency Energy Sector Rehabilitation                             0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0

Physical Contingencies

Price Contingencies

Subtotal with Contingencies                                               0.0       9.5        0.0      9.5

Refinancing of PPF                                                        0.0       0.0        1.5      1.5

Total                                                                     0.0       9.5        1.5     11.0




                            Appraisal estimate Revised estimate           Disbursed
                               Million US$            Million US$        Million US$

Government                                    0.3                 0.3*             0.3*

IDA(including PPF)                          11.0                 10.7             10.1

EIB                                           3.0                  0.0             0.0

Private oil companies                         0.2                  0.0             0.0

Total                                       14.5                 11.0             10.4

*No actual figures are available for the government's contribution. The ICR estimate is based on the
appraisal estimate, and expenditures from available audit reports that came close to it




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable to this project.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Concept Review
              October 1989
              Preparation starts
              in November 1989

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal
              December 1989
              Negotiations
              October 1990

 Supervision
              Supervision 1               2    EC, ENG                           S               S
              June 1992
              Supervision                 4                                      S               S
              June 1994
              Supervision                 1    2ES, 1EC, 1FA                     S               S
              November 1995
              Supervision                 1    1TM                               S               S
              February 1998
              Supervision                 1    1 TM                              S               S
              July 1999
              Supervision                 1    1 TM                              S               S
              December 2000
              Supervision                 1    1 TM                              S               S
              July 2001

 ICR
              Preparation                 3     TM, EC, ES, ICR specialist


NA = Not Available
NS = Not specified.

Staffing Codes:
EC = Energy Economist
ENG =Engineer
ES= Energy Specialist
FA =Financial Analyst
LEG = Bank Legal Department Staff
TM = Task Manager




                                                - 25 -

Source: Project Status Reports and Project Files

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        8.8                           6.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           26.2                           80.9
  Supervision                                     69.3                         207.5
  ICR                                             11.0                           35.0
  Total                                          115.3                         330.3




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Memorandum of the President for the International Development Association to the Executive Directors on
a Proposed Credit of SDR 7.9 million to the Republic of Chad for a Petroleum and Power Engineering
Credit, October 26, 1990.

Project Status Reports: 8/19/91; 8/27/91; 6/30/92; 6/30/93; 7/6/94; 12/4/95; 6/7/96; 6/26/97; 4/15/98;
12/14/99; 6/28/00; 12/21/00;6/27/01; 12/30/01; 5/4/02.

Bank Memoranda/ Correspondence:

6/22/94: Back-to-Office (BTO) Report on the Sedigi Project and Energy Sector Review
12/5/95: Supervision Report on the Chad Petroleum Power and Engineering Project
6/11/96: Sedigi Petroleum/Power Project Back to Office Report.
11/22/96: Sedigi Petroleum/Power Project: Status and Issues
12/13/96: Memo on extension of the closing date.
1/5/98 : Sedigi Project BTO on meetings in Luxembourg
3/2/98 : Cover Memo of Form 590
12/16/98: Chad Petroleum and Power Engineering Project -- Extension of Closing Date
8/20/00: Chad- Petroleum and Power Engineering Project (Cr 2184-CD) Proposed Amendment to the
Development Credit Agreement.

12/21/00: Chad Sedigi Gas Flaring Project -- Extension of the Closing Date for GEF Grant MULT 23292
Other Reports

Audit Reports for SEERAT: 1992, 1995, 1996, 1998.

Other Documents Relevant to the Project and the Energy Sector

1. Chad Sedigi Oil Project: Utilization of the Natural Gas - A Status Report (November 1998)
2. Chad: Sedigi Pipeline Project: Proposal for PDF Block Grant ( May 1999)
3. Report No. 19342-CD, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 17.4
Million (US$23.7 million equivalent) to the Republic of Chad for a Petroleum Sector Management
Capacity Building Project, March 30, 2000.
4. Report No. 19343 AFR: Project Appraisal Document on Proposed International Ban for Reconstruction
and Development Loans in Amounts of US$39 Million to the Republic of Chad and US$53.4 Million to the
Republic of Cameroon and on the Proposed International Finance Corporation Loans in Amounts of
US$100 million in A-Loans and UP to US$300 Million in B-Loans to the Chad Oil Transportation
Company, S.A. and Cameroon Oil Transportation Company, S.A. for a Petroleum Development and
Pipeline Project, April 13, 2000.
5. Report No. 24112-CD Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 41.4
Million (US$54.8 Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Chad for a Critical Electricity and Water
Services Rehabilitation Project, August 23, 2002.




                                                   - 29 -

- 30 -

