Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2184 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum and Power Engineering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 29, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2184 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
any financing so provided by the Association would be refunded, if the 
Association so requests, out of the proceeds of any credit by the Association which 
may later be granted to the Borrower for the construction of the Facilities 
(hereinafter defined) to be engineered under the Project, and
(C)
Parts A.2, A.3 and B of the Project will be carried out by Societe 
Page  2
d'Etude et d'Exploitation de la Raffinerie du Tchad (SEERAT) -- a corporation 
organized under the laws of Chad and 51% owned by the Borrower and 49% owned by 
private parties -- with the Borrower's assistance, and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make available to SEERAT the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SEERAT;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January l, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Unless  the context otherwise requires,  the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions have the respective the following meanings:
(a)
"Accord entre Actionnaires" means Accord entre Actionnaires de la SEERAT, 
dated December 19, 1988, between the Borrower and the other shareholders of SEERAT 
therein named, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time with the consent of the Association;
(b)
"CFAF" means the Franc de la Cooperation Financiere en Afrique Centrale, 
the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
"Convention" means Convention entre la Republique du Tchad et la Societe 
d'Etude et d'Exploitation de la Raffinerie du Tchad, dated December 19, 1988, between 
the Borrower and SEERAT, as
such agreement may be amended from time to time with the consent of the Association;
(d)
"Facilities" means a pipeline, a refinery and an electric power plant to 
be constructed in the Borrower's territory;
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
SEERAT of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters, dated 
October 6, 1986 and October 7, 1986, and dated January 4, 1990 and January 12, 1990, 
between the Borrower and the Association;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SEERAT pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
7,900,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A.2, A.3 and B of the 
Project, open and maintain in CFAF, in the name of SEERAT, a special deposit account 
in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from 
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15, commencing January 15, 2001 and ending July 15, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2010, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association, and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
Page  4
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit prepaid. If so 
requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. SEERAT is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action in respect of Parts A.2, A.3 or B of the Project 
required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule  2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A.l of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Part of the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SEERAT to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of SEERAT therein set forth, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SEERAT to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit for Parts A.2, A.3 and 
B of the Project available to SEERAT, as approved by the Association, either: (i) as 
part of an equity contribution to SEERAT, under terms and conditions approved by the 
Association, or (ii) under a subsidiary loan agreement (the Subsidiary Loan terms and 
conditions approved by the Association which shall provide, inter alia, that the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of no less than 12% per 
annum, and for a term of no more than 15 years, including a grace period of no more 
than 5 years.
(d)
The Borrower shall (i) exercise its rights as a shareholder of SEERAT in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and (ii) exercise its rights under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit. Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
The Borrower (i) shall not permit its shareholding in SEERAT to be less 
than 51%, (ii) shall ensure at all times that at least half of the directors serving 
on the Conseil d'Administration of SEERAT shall have been nominated by the Borrower, 
and (iii) shall take all other actions to ensure that the other shareholders of SEERAT 
Page  5
are incapable of exercising control over the activities of SEERAT in contravention of 
the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement and SEERAT's obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(f)
without the approval of the Association, the Borrower shall not amend, 
modify or supplement any provision of (i) the Accord entre Actionnaires, (ii) the 
Convention or (iii) SEERAT's
Statuts.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of carrying out Part A.l of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consulted Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and except as provided in 
paragraph (a) above, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants in the 
performance of their services for the Project and make available to them all 
information relevant to the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause any consultants, employed by it for the purpose 
of assisting in carrying out the Project, promptly to furnish to the Association 
copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans, designs, 
specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, provided that, if required by such consultants, 
the Association shall have provided reasonable assurances regarding the 
confidentiality, if any, of such documents.
(e)
With respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations 
and other conclusions contained in the documents referred to in the preceding 
paragraph or in any similar documents provided by consultants under Section 2.02 of 
the Project Agreement:
(i)
during the carrying out of all Parts of the Project, the Borrower 
and the 
Association shall from time to time exchange 
views on said recommendations and 
conclusions; and
 
(ii)
upon completion of each of Part A.l and Part A.2 of the Project, 
the Borrower shall 
consult with  the Association on the recommendations 
and conclusions relating 
thereto.
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, by SEERAT pursuant to 
Sections 2.03 through 2.09 of the Project Agreement with respect to Parts A.2, A.3 and 
B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part A.l of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part or any portion thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
SEERAT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SEERAT will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The charter documents of SEERAT shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SEERAT or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
Either (i) the Accord Entre Actionnaires, or any provision thereof, or 
(ii) the Convention, or any provision thereof, shall have been modified, waived or 
amended so as to adversely
affect the execution of the Project.
(f)
The Project Agreement shall have been terminated by any party thereto.
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the events specified in paragraph (c), (d) (e) or (f) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
SEERAT shall have adopted internal administrative procedures acceptable 
to the Association.
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
Page  7
and SEERAT; and
(c)
the Association shall have received from SEERAT:
 
(i)
an opinion from counsel to SEERAT, acceptable to the Association, 
showing (A) that 
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement have been duly authorized 
or ratified by SEERAT, and 
are legally binding upon SEERAT in accordance with their 
respective 
terms, and (B) such other matters as shall be reasonably requested by 
the Association in connection therewith; and
(ii)
a letter, dated no more than lO days before the date of 
effectiveness of this 
Agreement, confirming that no event 
described in Section 3.04, 3.05 or 3.06 of the 
Project Agreement 
shall have occurred since October 1, 1990, other than any such 
event to which the Association shall have consented.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representation of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Planning and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex: 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (UI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Page  8
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Adoum
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Eauivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Consultants'
services
for:
(a)
Part A.l
    140,000
100% of foreign
of the
expenditures
Project
(b)
Part A.2
  1,600,000
100%
of the
Project
(c)
Part A.3 (a)
    840,000
100%
of the
Project
(d)
Part B.l of
  1,100,000
100%
the Project
(e)
Part B.2 of
    950,000
100%
the Project
(2)
Equipment and
    140,000
100% of foreign
vehicles for
expenditures
Part A.3 (b)
of the Project
(3)
Training and
    975,000
100% of foreign
operational
expenditures
support for
Part B.3 of
the Project
(4)
Operating costs
     95,000
100%
for Part B.3 of
the Project
(5)
Refunding of
  1,150,000
Amount due
Project Prepara-
pursuant to
tion Advance
Section 2.02
(b) of this
Page  9
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   910,000
 
TOTAL
 7,900,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means (i) expenditures in any currency 
other than that of the Borrower for goods  or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the
Borrower, and (ii) if the currency of the Borrower is also that of any other country, 
expenditures in such currency for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
such other country;
(b)
the term "training" means costs of fellowships, training sessions, 
conferences, courses, study tours and travel; "rational support" means the wages and 
other compensation paid to operational
personnel of SEERAT in connection with Part B.3 of the Project; and
(d)
the term "operating costs" means the cost of operation and maintenance of 
equipment, vehicles and buildings (and does not include payment of salaries, wages, 
per diems or other compensation).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 800,000, may be made in
respect of Categories (1) (b) and (1) (c) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after September 1, 1990; and
(b)
in respect of Categories (1) (d), (1) (e), (3) and (4) until the 
Association has determined, based on the scope and cost of the construction of the 
Facilities defined pursuant to Part A.2 of the Project, that the economic and 
financial viability and technical feasibility of the construction and operation of the 
Facilities are justified.
SCHEUDLE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower and SEERAT to undertake 
all the preparations necessary for the construction of the Facilities (including 
preparation of their construction bid solicitation packages) and supervision of their 
construction within a sound institutional, macroeconomic and environmental framework.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Preparation of Tender Documents and Related Studies, and Related 
Operation of SEERAT
1.
Preparation of, or completion of the previously initiated, following studies, as 
indicated: (a) completion of the evaluation of the environmental impact of the 
proposed construction and operation of the Facilities, (b) completion of the petroleum 
products pricing and electricity tariff study, (c) preparation of a study on the 
utilization of Sedigi associated gas, and (d) preparation of an industrial and a 
household energy and gas utilization study.
2.
(a)
Preparation by SEERAT of engineering designs, duty specifications and 
drawings sufficient to prepare tender documents (which take into account the results 
of the studies described under 1 (a) above) to solicit turnkey bids for the 
construction of the Facilities, (b) preparation by SEERAT of such tender documents, 
and (c) processing by SEERAT of invitations to bid, and evaluation by SEERAT of the 
Page  10
resulting bids, for the construction of the Facilities.
3.
During the period prior to construction and commissioning of the Facilities: (a) 
management of SEERAT consistent with sound business, financial and engineering 
practices, and (b) operation of SEERAT consistent with such practices (including the 
acquisition by SEERAT of vehicles and other equipment).
Part B:
Supervision of Construction and Commission of Facilities and Related 
Operation of SEERAT
1.
Preparatory project management for, and supervision of, the construction and 
commissioning of the Facilities by SEERAT.
2.
Management of SEERAT consistent with sound business, financial and engineering 
practices during construction and commissioning of the Facilities.
3.
Operation of SEERAT consistent with sound business, financial and engineering 
practices (including training of SEERAT staff) during construction and commissioning 
of the Facilities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (b), (c), (d), (e), 
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.2, A.3 and B of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. 
Page  11
On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Botwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts 
A.2, A.3 and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall give to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
I the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
