Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2184 CD
Project Agreement
(Petroleum and Power Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE D'ETUDE ET D'EXPLOITATION DE LA RAFFINERIE DU TCHAD
Dated November 29, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2184 CD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIETE D'ETUDE ET D'EXPLOITATION DE LA RAFFINERIE 
DU TCHAD, a corporation organized
under the laws of the Republic of Chad (SEERAT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Chad (the Borrower) and the Association (the Development Credit 
Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount 
(the Credit) in various currencies equivalent to seven million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SEERAT agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and SEERAT pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(ii) of the 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under 
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to  SEERAT on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (including such terms relating 
to the Special Account, as hereinafter defined);
(C)
each of the shareholders of SEERAT other than the Borrower has delivered 
to the Association a letter acknowledging the existence of SEERAT's obligations under 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS SEERAT, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Facilities" means a pipeline, a refinery and an electric power plant to 
be constructed in the Borrower's territory;
(b)
"Project" means the Project defined in Section 2.01 of this Agreement; 
and
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SEERAT declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A.2, A.3 and B of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, engineering and business practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the Project, 
provided that (a) such obligations of SEERAT with respect to Part B of the Project 
shall be contingent upon written  notification from the Association that the 
Association will assist in financing such Part B, and (b) that SEERAT may, upon 
written notice to the Association, terminate such obligations with respect to such 
Part B upon written notification from the Association that the Association will not 
assist in financing the construction of the Facilities.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
SEERAT shall cooperate fully with such consultants in the performance of 
their services for the Project and make available to them all information relevant to 
the Project.
(c)
SEERAT shall cause such consultants promptly to furnish to the 
Association copies of the documents prepared by them for the Project, including 
reports and drafts thereof, plans, designs,
specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, provided that, if reasonably requested by 
SEERAT, the Association shall have
provided reasonable assurances (including delivery of a confidentiality agreement) 
regarding the confidentiality of such documents.
Page  3
(d)
With respect to the evaluation and implementation of the recommendations 
and other conclusions contained in the documents referred to in the preceding 
paragraph:
(i)
during the carrying out of Parts A.2, A.3 and B of the Project, 
SEERAT shall, if 
requested by the Association, exchange views 
with the Association on said 
recommendations and 
conclusions; and
(ii)
upon completion of Part A.2 of the Project, SEERAT shall consult 
with the 
Association on the recommendations and 
conclusions relating thereto.
Section 2.03. (a) SEERAT shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project and the 
performance of its obligations under
this Agreement.
(b)
SEERAT shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project or the 
accomplishment of the objectives of
the Project, or the performance by SEERAT of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.04. SEERAT shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate 
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use 
or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable in a freely usable 
currency to replace or repair
such goods.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SEERAT shall 
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. SEERAT shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract 
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
Section 2.07. (a) SEERAT shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to 
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to 
visit any facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the 
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any plants, installations, sites, 
works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents relevant to the 
performance of the obligations of SEERAT under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to 
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall 
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the 
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the 
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the 
name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract 
price.
(c)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between SEERAT and the Association, SEERAT shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost 
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by SEERAT and the 
Page  4
Association of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.08. SEERAT shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be 
operated and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as 
needed, make or cause to be made all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 2.09. SEERAT shall take, or cause to be taken, all such action as shall 
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land 
as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the 
Association, promptly upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SEERAT
Section 3.01. SEERAT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and business practices 
(for the petroleum sector) under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SEERAT shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and business practices.
Section 3.03. SEERAT shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. SEERAT shall take no action to dissolve itself voluntarily or 
otherwise to terminate its corporate existence voluntarily.
Section 3.05. Without the approval of the Association, SEERAT shall not (a) 
enter into any agreements or arrangements with any of its shareholders or any 
affiliate thereof creating obligations on the part of SEERAT in excess of the 
equivalent of 10,000 United States dollars, in the aggregate, or (b) materially amend, 
modify or supplement any such agreement or arrangement.
Section 3.06. SEERAT shall not enter into any contract, agreement or arrangement 
involving, or make any payment of, the equivalent of 500,000 United States dollars or 
more without the approval of the Association, except pursuant to a contract or 
agreement previously approved by the Association, provided that such contract or 
amendment shall not have been materially modified since such approval.
Section 3.07. SEERAT shall comply with the requirements set forth in the 
Subsdiary Loan Agreement with respect to the Special Account (as defined in the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SEERAT shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations (including all 
transactions relating to the Project)
and financial condition.
(b)
SEERAT shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each 
Page  5
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; 
and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Subsidiary Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SEERAT hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SEERAT of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram or telex to the party to which it is required 
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at 
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving 
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  6
For SEERAT:
SEERAT
s/c Secr¶tariat G¶n¶ral de la Pr¶sidence
B.P. 74
N'Djamena
Chad
Telex:
PRESIREP 5307 KD
PRESIREP 5201 KD
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SEERAT may be 
taken or executed by the
Chairman of the Board of Directors of SEERAT or such other person or persons as SEERAT 
shall designate in writing, and SEERAT shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIETE D'ETUDE ET D'EXPLOITATION
   DE LA RAFFINERIE DU TCHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Ali Adoum
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods estimated to cost per contract an amount equivalent to $100,000 or less 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
Page  7
obtained from a list of at
least three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist SEERAT in carrying out the Project, SEERAT shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist SEERAT to undertake all the 
preparations necessary for the construction of the Facilities (including preparation 
of their construction bid solicitation packages) and supervision of their construction 
within a sound institutional, macroeconomic and environmental framework.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Preparation of Tender Documents and Related Studies, and Related 
Operation of SEERAT
1.
Preparation of, or completion of the previously initiated, following studies, as 
indicated: (a) completion of the evaluation of the environmental impact of the 
proposed construction and operation
of the Facilities, (b) completion of the petroleum products pricing and electricity 
tariff study, (c) preparation of a study on the utilization of Sedigi associated gas, 
and (d) preparation of an industrial and household energy and gas utilitization study.
2.
(a)
Preparation by SEERAT of engineering designs, duty specifications and 
drawings sufficient to prepare tender documents (which take into account the results 
of the studies described under 1 (a) above) to solicit turnkey bids for the 
construction of the Facilities, (b) preparation by SEERAT of such tender documents, 
and (c) processing by SEERAT of invitations to bid, and evaluation by SEERAT of the 
resulting bids, for the construction of the Facilities.
3.
During the period prior to construction and commissioning of the Facilities: (a) 
Page  8
management of SEERAT consistent with sound business, financial and engineering 
practices, and (b) operation of
SEERAT consistent with such practices (including the acquisition by SEERAT of vehicles 
and other equipment).
Part B:
Supervision of Construction and Commissioning of Facilities, and Related 
Operation of 
SEERAT
 
1.
Preparatory project management for, and supervision of, the construction and 
commissioning of the Facilities by SEERAT.
2.
Management of SEERAT consistent with sound business, financial and engineering 
practices during construction and commissioning of the Facilities.
3.
Operation of SEERAT consistent with sound business, financial and engineering 
practices (including training of SEERAT staff) during construction and commissioning 
of the Facilities.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
