Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15528
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2663-TU
March 28, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
End of Year Value of US$ 1.00 in TL
1986                             758
1987              =            1.021
1988              =            1,815
1989              =            2,314
1990              =            2,930
1991              =            5,080
1992              =            8,564
1993              =           14,473
1994              =           38,726
June 1995
US$ 1.00          =           TL 43,000
TL 1,000          =           US$ 0.0233
TL 1,000,000                  US$ 23.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilogram (kg)                  =           2.20 pounds
i tonne                          -            1,000 kilograms, 0.98 long ton
I hectare (ha)                   =           2.47 acres
I decare                         =           0.1 ha
I square kilometre (km2)         =           0.386 square mile
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Govemment of Turkey              =           January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOFD           -      Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
DSI            -      General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works
GDAPD          -      General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development
GDRS           -      General Directorate of Rural Services
GOT            -      Govemment of Turkey
GIA            -      Gross Irrigable Area
IAEE           -      lgdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis
IMIR           -      Irrigation Management and Investment Review
IMP            -      Irrigation Master Plan
IR             -      Irrigation Ratio
I&D            -      Irrigation and Drainage
LRW            -      Land Reclamation Works
NIA            -      Net Irrigable Area
OFD            -      On-Farm Developments
OFWM           -      On-Farm Water Management
O&M            -      Operation and Maintenance
SAR            -      Staff Appraisal Report
SDW            -      Surface Drainage Works
SSDW           -      Subsurface Drainage Works
WUO            -      Water Users Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 2663-TU
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary . ......................................... i-v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT  ........1......... 
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives  ..............................    1
B.  Achievement of Objectives  ...................................    2
Physical Targets and Achievements  ............................    2
Institutional Development Objectives  ...........................    5
Planning Objectives .             .....................................    6
Economic and Financial Objectives  ............................    7
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................    8
Factors Not Generaly Subject to Government Control .................    8
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control  ...................    9
Factors Generally Subject to Implementation Agency Control  .............  9
D.  Project Sustainability          ...................                  ...................                  10
E.  Bank Performance   .               .......................................   11
F. Borrower's Performance .                 ..................................... 12
G.  Assessment of Outcome               ..................                 ...................   13
H.  Future Operation  ................. .. ......................   13
I. Key Lessons Learnt .                .......................................   13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLbhout World Bank authorization.         l



Table of Contents (cont'd)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables
1:      Summary of Assessments  ................................  15
2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits   ..............................   16
3:      Project Timetable   ....................................   17
4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  ...                       ......  17
5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation   .....................  18
6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation  .........................  19
7:      Studies Included in Project ...............................   19
8A:       Project Costs  .......................................   20
8B:       Project Financing   ....................................  20
9:      Economic Costs and Benefits   .............................  21
10:      Status of Legal Covenants   ...............................  22
11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   .................  23
12:      Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  .............................  23
13:      Bank Resources:  Missions    ..............................  24
APPENDICES
A.       Mission's Aide M6moire
B.       Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C.       Economic Re-evaluation
D.       Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
E.   Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUfRKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2663-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Drainage and On-Farm
Development Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2663-TU in the amount of US$255.0
million equivalent was approved on March 27, 1986 and made effective on June 15, 1987.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995, three years after the original closing date of
June 30, 1992. US$50.0 million and US$30.0 million were cancelled on February 9, 1994
and on October 7, 1994, respectively. Total disbursement was US$173.9 million, including
US$56.9 million for completion of the balance of works of the Bank-funded Igdir-Aksu-
Eregli-Ercis Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU), which remained incomplete at the closing of
Loan 2433. The last disbursement took place on November 28, 1995, at which time a
balance of US$1.1 million remained undisbursed. The cancellation of the balance is awaiting
the receipt of the final withdrawal application to allocate the expenditures funded from the
special account. There was no co-financing for this project.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
ProgrammeL' (FAO/CP) on behalf of the Agriculture and Environment Division, Country
Department 1 of the Europe and Central Asia Region of the World Bank. Preparation of this
ICR started with the mission's visit to Turkey from June 12 to 28, 1995. The report is based
on material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, as well as findings from
field visits and discussions with Bank and Government of Turkey staff associated with the
project. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and
meetings, and by providing comments during the preparation of the mission's Aide M6moire.
1/ Mission composed of Messrs. R. Suppa (Mission Leader, FAO/CP), P. Warner and
H. Laeyendecker (Irrigation/Drainage Engineers, Consultants).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEIlON REPORT
TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2663-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Drainage and On-farm Development (DOFD) Project was appraised in June 1985
and approved by the Board on March 20, 1986, becoming effective on June 15, 1987. The
project cost was estimated at US$480.5 million towards which the Bank provided a loan of
US$255.0 million. The Borrower was the Republic of Turkey. The implementing agencies
were the General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI) and the General Directorate of
Rural Services (GDRS). The original closing date was June 30, 1992 which was extended on
three occasions by one year at a time, to June 30, 1995. Total disbursements were US$173.9
million, including about US$56.9 million to complete the civil works at the Igdir-Aksu-
Eregli-Ercis (IAEE) Project (Ln. 2433-TU). US$50.0 million and US$30.0 million were
cancelled on February 9, 1994 and October 7, 1994 respectively leaving US$1.1 million
undisbursed. The undisbursed amount has yet to be cancelled since the last withdrawal
application for the adjustment of the special account is still awaited from the Borrower.
Actual project costs (excluding cost of completion of IAEE schemes of US$81.2 million)
amounted to US$180.3 million, as a result of a significant reduction of project scope during
the course of implementation.
Project Objectives and Description
ii.   The objectives of the project, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to
(i) concentrate government's resources, while remaining within the scope of the Core
Program agreed under the ASAL (Loan 2585-TU), on those subprojects which have the
highest priority, and (ii) assist in improving design and implementation capacity of DSI and
GDRS. The project was prepared as the first five-year time slice of a DOFD Core Program.
Its main components, as described in the SAR, were: (i) surface drainage works (SDW) for
desilting and remodelling of existing surface drains and construction of new drains, including
pumping stations and associated structures, over an area of 668,000 ha; (ii) subsurface
drainage works (SSDW) for installation and rehabilitation of subsurface drainage systems
over 137,500 ha; (iii) land reclamation works (LRW) on 40,000 ha of saline and alkaline
land; (iv) construction of 1,310 km of farm access roads; (v) provision of facilities for
operation and maintenance (O&M); (vi) installation of piezometers for groundwater
monitoring; (vii) strengthening of drainage research stations; (viii) training; and (ix)



- ii -
preparation of a second five-year time slice project. The completion of the balance of
irrigation and drainage (I&D) works for about 33,000 ha, at schemes which had been
implemented under the IAEE Irrigation Project (funded under Loan 2433-TU, which was
closed on June 30, 1992), and two further studies, an Irrigation Investment Master Plan
(IMP) and an On-Farm Development Inventory and Planning Study, were subsequently
included in the project. DSI was responsible for SDW component of the project, with GDRS
responsible for SSDW, LRW, and other on-farm development works. Both agencies were
assisted by project consultants and review consultants.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   Project Preparation and Appraisal: The project was prepared and appraised as the
first 5-year time slice of a DOFD 10-year Core Program. The Core Program and its first
slice was prepared from the list of DSI and GDRS project inventories on the basis of some
special features and criteria without initially conducting any detailed site surveys. After the
consultants were appointed in September 1987, preliminary and detailed surveys were
conducted. As a result of these surveys and the Government's changes in the drainage
design requirement lowering the groundwater to one meter depth instead of two meters, the
DOFD Core Program was revised (para 4). Seventeen I&D schemes were selected for
improvement under the project, with revised targets for SDW as 161,027 ha; for SSDW,
133,339 ha; and for LRW, 9,500 ha, which was agreed by the Bank.
iv.   Implementation record: The 17 schemes were grouped into 7 packages for
implementation. DSI carried out SDW primarily under force account and GDRS executed
SSDW, LRW, and other on-farm development works using contractors selected under ICB.
The original implementation period of six years was extended three times, each of one year,
as project progress was affected by various factors such as delays in the consultants'
appointment, lack of farmer cooperation, shortage of local funds and poor contractor
performance. At the closing date of June 30, 1995, the overall physical completion of the
works was over 97% for the DSI component and 50% for the GDRS component.
v.    Project implementation is generally considered satisfactory except the progress on the
GDRS work, which has been very slow. Most of the balance I&D work for the completion
of the IAEE schemes was also successfully carried out (refer to the ICR for Loan 2433-TU).
Other project components such as training, procurement of equipment and additional studies
were implemented satisfactorily.
vi.   Project impact: The project completed SDW on 157,400 ha (more than 97% of the
plan). About 40,000 ha of desilting of the drains was also carried out in other Core Program
schemes. SSDW was completed on 66,041 ha of the planned total of 133,339 ha, and access
was improved through the construction of 700.6 km of farm roads. Project impact has
already been significant in terms of agricultural production. In Izmir and Adana, average
cotton yields increased from 1.2 tons/ha to 2.8 tons/ha in the previously waterlogged areas.
In Konya, a wheat growing area, yields increased from 1.2 tons/ha to 3.5 tons/ha. Other



- iii -
reported benefits are the reclamation of previously abandoned land and the ability of farmers
to get earlier access to their fields in the spring. The completion of the IAEE schemes also
contributed (refer to the ICR for Loan 2433-TU) to the generation of benefits from these
schemes.
vii. An unanticipated major project impact was set in motion by the Irrigation Investment
Master Plan (IMP) study, which formed the basis for the Bank's 'Irrigation Management and
Investment Review" (IMIR) of 1992. The IMIR concluded that the only solution for the
deteriorating O&M situation in the public irrigation schemes was a transfer of the
management of completed schemes from Government to farmers' Water User Organizadons
(WUO). This approach was accepted by Turkish officials in 1993. In 1994, test-transfers of
many DSI-managed schemes took place in four provinces. As of June 1995, the management
transfer on 700,000 ha of public irrigation schemes (43% of the national DSI-managed
acreage) had been completed, with targets of 61% by the end of 1995 and 100% before
2000. The success of this project, though unexpected, mainly lies in the redefinition of the
role of Government in managing irrigation schemes. It broke and reversed the traditional
acceptance of the need for continuous growth of public management services, in step with the
growth in acreage under public irrigation.
viii.  Key factors affecting project implementation: The two most important factors
were: (i) lack of farmer cooperation with GDRS for implementation of SSDW and LRW in
some areas; and (ii) poor performance of the subsurface drainage contractors. Other factors
included: (iii) overestimation of the implementation capacity of DSI and GDRS; (iv) lack of
coordination between the implementing agencies; (v) GOT financial constraints limiting
progress of the works from time to time; (vi) delays in the appointment of consultants; and
(vii) shortcomings in project preparation.
ix.   Sustainability: The project is sustainable and, where the works were completed, has
been welcomed by the farmers. Much will depend on how the new Water Users
Organizations succeed in assuming responsibility for scheme management and O&M cost
recovery, but a very good start has been made. Regular maintenance of the open drains will
be of particular importance to ensure full effectiveness of the subsurface drainage system.
X.    Bank and Borrower performance: The Bank's performance in supervising the
project was satisfactory, although its performance in project preparation and appraisal was
not satisfactory. The project was poorly prepared, since the basic criteria for drainage were
not examined adequately and detailed designs for at least the first year of implementation
(until consultants would be appointed and would have time to prepare the remaining
program) was not prepared; the shortcomings were not properly identified and addressed;
and macroeconomic constraints on the capacity to provide counterpart funds were not
properly identified. With respect to implementation, the performance of DSI in achieving
over 97% of their planned works was satiffactory. The performance of GDRS in achieving
only 50% of their planned works was unsatisfactory, although the reasons for this slow rate
of progress were not wholly attributable to GDRS. The Bank's supervision role was



- iv -
generally adequate and was especially noteworthy in assisting DSI with the transfer of O&M
responsibilities to WUOs. Bank staff convened several discussion meetings and conferences,
and initiated the arrangements for the foreign study tours of local staff to expose them to
such transfer programs. The outcome of these efforts was highly successful, and resulted in
the transfer of 42% of DSI-managed acreage of 1.6 million ha by June 1995. GOT's
endorsement and active promotion of the transfer program has been very encouraging, and
implementation of the program is proceeding satisfactorily. Lessons of national significance
may emerge from this important program which was not included in the original project
design.
xi.   Project outcome: Where the works are complete, the project achieved its objectives
and significant increase in crop yields has already been obtained. Based on these results and
expecting completion of the still remaining works, the project is satisfactory. The program of
scheme management transfer to WUOs, not foreseen at appraisal, continues nation-wide at a
rapid pace.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
xii. Findings: There are two findings. The first relates to the need to involve the
beneficiaries much more in the planning and design process for subsurface drainage systems.
Their formal approval to the scope and timing of the works in the crop calendar should be
obtained before construction to avoid later problems of non-cooperation. The second finding
is that it was possible to transfer the management of the I&D schemes to WUJOs, which
changed rapidly the ingrained government practice, because:
a.   the deterioration of the O&M situation had become so critical that the time
was ripe for action;
b.   the bad effects of the situation could be quantified and proven solutions in
other countries could be demonstrated to the government decision makers; and
c.   the solution did not require massive layoffs.
xiii.  Future operation: Responsibilities for the O&M of the irrigation systems have
already been handed over to the farmers in about 85% of the project area. DSI plans to
complete the transfer by late 1996. The drainage systems, except at Konya, will remain the
responsibility of DSI until the WUOs are suitably financed and equipped. DSI will continue
to monitor groundwater levels, irrigated areas etc, and collect agro-economic data including
cropping patterns and yields. Both DSI and GDRS aim to complete the balance of works
using their own resources but in view of the budget constraints now faced by the government
it is uncertain how long this will take. DSI and GDRS have also approached the Bank for
assistance for a second time slice project.



v 
xiv.  Key lessons learned: The key lessons learned are:
a.    Appraisal of such a large and relatively complex project requires more careful
and detailed engineering preparation studies to avoid major changes in the
project components, quantities and costs during implementation. The basic
change in drainage design criteria that had to be agreed during implementation
is a typical example of what should have been determined during the
preparation stage. A detailed, more formalized approach is required including
pre-lending approval by the Bank of detailed project implementation, design,
operation and maintenance plans and mechanisms appropriate for any future
project in hand, including time-bound scheduling of performance activities and
management warning systems.
b.    Beneficiary involvement at the planning and design stages was inadequate and
led many farmers to oppose project implementation. This was a major factor
in the slow progress of the subsurface drainage works.
C.    The project was too ambitious given macroeconomic constraints. Greater
weight should be given during the preparation of projects to the development
of realistic assessment of counterpart funding capacity.
d.   It was possible to convince GOT of the benefits of I&D schemes management
transfer to WUOs (privatization) because: (i) the time was ripe; (ii) it was
possible to quantify a deteriorating O&M situation and propose a proven
solution; and (iii) the solution did not require massive layoffs.
e.    The employment of a single project consultant to assist both DSI and GDRS
avoided additional coordination and liaison problems.
f.    Suitable qualifications and experience should have been included in the
contractor selection criteria, to avoid the problems experienced with the
subsurface drainage.
g.    Bank staff took advantage of a window of opportunity, during project
implementation, to use it to promote the formation of Water Users
Organizations to which DSI transferred responsibility for irrigation O&M
expenditures. Such approach deserves to be commended as it may result in
benefits outweighing those from the physical components of the project. It
also serves to highlight the importance of a close dialogue between the Bank
and the implementing agencies during the implementation stage, and the
benefits of internal Bank cross-fertilization, which enabled the replication in
Turkey of a successful experience in Mexico.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2663-TU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project, as described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were
to (i) concentrate government resources, while remaining within the scope of the Core
Program agreed under the ASAL (Loan 2585-TU), on those subprojects which have the
highest priority, and (ii) assist in improving design and implementation capacity of DSI and
GDRS. The project was prepared as the first 5-year time slice of a Drainage and On-Farm
Development (DOFD) 10-year Core Program. Its components were: (i) surface drainage
work (SDW) for desilting and remodelling of existing surface drains and construction of new
drains, including pumping stations (wherever needed) and other structures, over an area of
668,000 ha; (ii) subsurface drainage work (SSDW) for new installation and rehabilitation of
subsurface drainage systems over 137,500 ha; (iii) land reclamation works (LRW) on
40,000 ha of saline and alkaline land; (iv) construction of 1,310 km of farm access road;
(v) provision of facilities for operation and maintenance (O&M); (vi) installation of
piezometers for groundwater monitoring; (vii) strengthening of drainage research stations;
(viii) training; and (ix) preparation of a second five-year time slice project. The completion
of I&D works for about 33,000 ha, at schemes which had been implemented under Igdir-
Aksu-Eregli-Ercis (IAEE) project (funded under Loan 2433-TU, which was closed on June
30, 1992), and two additional studies, an Irrigation Investment Master Plan and an On-Farm
Development Inventory and Planning Study, were subsequently included in the project. The
project involved two implementing agencies -- the General Directorate of State Hydraulic
Works (DSI) responsible for SDW, and the General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS)
responsible for SSDW, LRW, and other on-farm development works. Consultants were
contracted to assist DSI and GDRS in the planning, design, execution and overall project
implementation. Separate consultants were also contracted to perform the functions of a
review panel. At appraisal, the project cost was estimated as US$480.5 million, which was
to be financed by a Bank loan of US$255.0 million, the Government of Turkey (GOT)
contributing the remainder. The project was expected to be fully implemented in six years
from 1986 to 1991.
2.    At the time of project formulation, the GOT sought to complete or rehabilitate
existing irrigation and drainage (I&D) schemes and to reduce the time required to complete
on-farm works in areas already served by major I&D infrastructure. In this context, the
project was most relevant to the country and the sector. However, a number of factors
delayed and affected the full accomplishment (Section C).



- 2 -
B. Achievement of Objectives
Physical Targets and Achievements
3.    General. At appraisal, the subprojects for inclusion in the first time slice were
chosen from the list of DSI and GDRS project inventories based on some general criteria
such as rehabilitation and improvement of drainage works which required less than five years
implementation period, surface drainage works which are a prerequisite for any subsurface
drainage, on-farm development works that could be started immediately, etc. For estimating
the costs of these works, average unit prices were used which were based on experience
elsewhere. Only after the consultants were appointed in September 1987, preliminary and
detailed surveys of subprojects were conducted. As such, the consultants prepared the
inception report and identified subprojects for implementation in the first and second time
slices by June 1988. Actual SSDW commenced on the first subproject on August 1989,
three years later than the Board approval date of March 20, 1986. Due to these delays in the
inception of the construction works and further complications in the project's implementation
progress, paras 33-34, the original closing date of June 30, 1992 was extended one-year at a
time to June 30, 1995, mainly to finish some uncompleted SSDW.
4.    The scope and size of the first time slice went under further changes from what was
envisaged in appraisal as a result of the consultants' critical review of the country's irrigation
and drainage requirement in late 1987; the Government changed the drainage design
requirement of lowering the groundwater to one meter depth instead of two meters; and
finding uneconomical the installation of buried pipe collectors to assure free flow for the
outflow from the sub-surface drains, as such, buried collector drains were replaced by open
collectors. In the light of these new developments, the scope of the ten-year Core Program
was reduced from 1,400,000 ha to 309,983 ha for SDW and from 440,000 ha to 216,630 ha
for SSDW in I&D schemes. Due to the reduction in the works quantities, the program under
the first slice was revised. A number of schemes that were originally envisaged for the
second time slice and some SDW for the schemes under the "third priority class" of the Core
Program became part of the project investment program.
5.    The achievement of physical targets can be generally considered as satisfactory,
except for SSDW. It must be noted that only half of the planned SSDW was completed and
SSDW accounted for 64% of the project cost as originally estimated. The Completion of the
balance I&D works at the schemes of the IAEE project was successfully carried out (refer
the ICR for Loan 2433-TU). Although, protection of the environment was not among the
objectives of the project, in the context of the subproject design, environmental impact was
considered. The project, overall, had positive environmental impact as it provided drainage
in the waterlogged land in several subproject areas with effluent going to the sea, and as it
contributed to efficient water utilization in the farm level.
6.    Seventeen schemes were included in the project, and grouped into seven packages for
implementation. The SDW was to be undertaken primarily under force account and very



little under LCB contract. SSDW, on the other hand, was to be executed under ICB
contracts. The equipment for SDW had been mostly procured earlier, except 365 dump
trucks which were procured under the project. As of February 1996, SDW was complete for
157,400 ha (more than 97% of planned 161,044 ha). Additional SDW over 40,000 ha was
also carried out in part of the area to be taken up under the second time slice and 'third
priority" schemes. The SSDW was completed on 66,041 ha (50% of planned 133,339 ha).
However, due to farmer resistance in certain schemes and minor design revisions during
construction, over 30,000 ha of the SSDW is likely to be deleted, reducing the target to
about 100,000 ha. The SSDW could therefore be considered to be about 66% complete.
Farm access roads were completed in 700.6 km (54% of target). For LRW, 55,600 tons of
gypsum was delivered to site which is sufficient to reclaim 2,271 ha of alkali soils (21% of
target). At the current rate of progress the subsurface drainage and on-farm development
works would probably be completed in 1997-98. Further details of the implementation of
individual packages are given below.
7.    Adana I: Under this package (Seyhan I scheme for 20,200 ha), envisaging SDW and
SSDW over the entire area, SDW is fully implemented and SSDW on about 19,170 ha
(against an original target of 20,200 ha). SDW started in 1988 and was completed in 1990.
SSDW started in 1989 and was completed in 1992. The area for SSDW was reduced by
about 5% due to minor design revisions. Farm roads were completed in 110 km. The
impact of both SDW and SSDW is already significant. Before the project (1987/88), about
8,000 ha (40% of the area) had the groundwater table within 1 m below ground level.
Shortly after project completion (1992/93) this waterlogged area had been reduced to 500 ha
(2%). Cotton yields are reported to have risen from 2.5-3.0 ton/ha to 3.5-4.0 ton/ha, and
maize yields increasing from 6-7 ton/ha to 9-10 ton/ha.
8.    Adana II: Under this package (Seyhan II, Berdan, and Silifke schemes for 27,550
ha), envisaging SDW on 20,017 ha (including two drainage pumping stations at Seyhan II
and Berdan), and SSDW for 12,795 ha, SDW has been completed 95% and SSDW only 5%.
SDW started at Seyhan II, Berdan, and Silifke in 1991, 1988, and 1988 respectively; and
were completed in 1993, 1995 (about 1,000 ha remained on June 30, 1995 which was to be
completed by the year end), 1992 respectively. Progress on SSDW has been extremely slow
with only 678 ha implemented till June 30, 1995. The first contract for the package was
awarded quite late in 1990 but only SSDW for 570 ha was complete after nearly two years,
when the contract was terminated. A second contract was awarded in 1993, but SSDW for
only 108 ha could be completed, when the contractor stopped operations in late 1994. This
contract was terminated in 1995. GDRS has no immediate plans to re-start the work. Farm
roads were completed in 73 km (62% of planned). The implementation of SDW had a
significant impact. At Berdan 500 ha of previously abandoned land has been reclaimed.
9.    Adana m: Under this package (Ceyhan, Kesiksuyu and Kahramanmaras schemes for
116,850 ha), envisaging SDW on 36,085 ha (including six new pumping stations) and SSDW
on 29,322 ha, SDW is 90% complete and SSDW only 36%. The SDW was started at
Ceyhan, Kesiksuyu, and Kahramanmaras in 1988, 1989,and 1988 respectively, and was



- 4 -
completed in 1995 (only 3,500 ha remained on June 30, 1995 which was to be completed by
the year end), 1994, and 1993 respectively. The civil works of the six new pumping stations
at Kesiksuyu are more or less complete. The pumps are already at site. Local contracts for
the installation of the pumps will be let shortly. Farm roads have been completed over 133
km and 28% of the gypsum required for land improvement delivered at site. The reasons for
the slow progress on SSDW and LRW were mainly farmer resistance and a very wet spring
in 1995, which made working conditions difficult. The contractor stopped work in April
1995 due to a contractual dispute which could not be resolved yet. The impact of SSDW
could not be assessed in terms of increase in yields due to recent completion. However,
farmers acknowledge the benefits of the improved surface drainage; in particular enabling
them earlier access to their fields in the spring.
10. Izmir I: Under this package (Saraykoy, Curuksu, Akcay, and Nazili schemes for
64,550 ha), envisaging SDW for 28,558 ha and SSDW for 19,732 ha), SDW has been
completed, and SSDW 34% (mainly in Saraykoy and Curuksu). The SDW started in 1988
and completed in 1993. The SSDW started in 1990 but the contract was terminated in 1992
because of poor progress, primarily due to the lack of farmer cooperation. Farm roads have
been constructed in 54 km (53% of planned).
11. Izmir II: Under this package (Menemen and Turgutlu schemes for 32,840 ha),
envisaging SDW (including 3 new pumping stations) for 17,400 ha and SSDW for 13,769 ha,
SDW was completed fully in 1994 and SSDW executed over 66% of the area (all at
Menemen), by June 30, 1995. Farm roads have been completed over 78.9 km. At
Turgutlu, the farmers informed GDRS that they did not want the subsurface drainage works
to be carried out although farm roads have been constructed. Work is continuing at
Menemen, using GDRS financial resources, and at the current rate of progress would be
completed in 1998. Farmers at Menemen are reporting significant improvements in yields
(from 1.5 ton/ha pre-project for cotton to 3 ton/ha) and ability to cultivate previously
abandoned lands.
12.   Konya I: Under this package (KOS IV and VII schemes for 20,800 ha), envisaging
SDW for 17,684 ha and SSDW for 15,904 ha, both SDW and SSDW (reduced to 15,244
during detailed design) are complete. Farm road have been completed over 178 km. For
LRW, gypsum sufficient for improvement of 409 ha of land was delivered. The Konya I
area suffered acutely from waterlogging before the project, with water table 0.5 m below
ground level. The project had an immediate impact of lowering it. Although the subsurface
drainage system has only been in place for a year, groundwater levels have already fallen by
an average of 0.8 m.
13.   Konya II: Under this package (KOS VI and Uluirmak schemes for 62,850 ha),
envisaging SDW for 21,100 ha (including one pumping station) and SSDW for 16,617 ha,
SDW is 71 % complete and SSDW 41 %. SDW commenced at KOS VI and Uluirmak in
1993 and 1988 respectively. At Uluirmak, as of June 1995, SDW in about 3,500 ha of the
planned 4,500 ha had been completed, and at KOS VI, about 11,500 ha of the planned



- 5 -
16,600 ha. DSI hopes to finish the balance works by early 1996. The GDRS works are
much delayed. A contractor was appointed in 1993, but the contract was terminated in 1994
with no tangible progress. A new contractor (the same company who successfully completed
Konya I) was appointed in late 1994 and has already made good progress, completing the
delivery of gypsum and road work, 74 km. About 500 ha of subsurface drainage has also
been installed. GDRS plans to complete the balance works from their own financial
resources, and at the current rate of progress completion is anticipated in early 1997. No
data is available on the physical impact of the project, but based on the experience at Konya
I, significant benefits should soon be achieved if the current rate of implementation is
maintained.
14.   Facilities for operation and maintenance (O&M]: The project included the
construction of limited number of field offices, stores, workshops, etc. for the use of DSI
O&M staff, which were constructed (including operator's quarters at the drainage pumping
stations) with DSI funding only. Various items of O&M equipment such as current meters,
water level recorders, and survey equipment were procured from the loan.
15.  Installation of piezometers: The project envisaged the installation of a network of
piezometers and observation wells in the problem areas for the monitoring of groundwater
levels. This network has been established (typically 1 piezometer per 100 ha) under DSI
funding only. The data is being regularly collected and analyzed.
Institutional Development Objectives
16.   General: The project has achieved its institutional development objectives through
the strengthening of drainage research stations, and training of DSI and GDRS staff. The
proposed procurement of additional computers for DSI has not been completed yet.
17.   Strengthening of drainage research stations: The project financed laboratory
equipment for the drainage research stations at Menemen and Konya, and repairs and
extensions to the buildings at Konya.
18.   Training: Both DSI and GDRS implemented their training components satisfactorily.
The project provision for training a total of 35 trainees (400 trainee-months), with Bank's
agreement, was changed to shorter study tours benefiting 109 staff (250 trainee-months).
DSI sent 81 staff on study tours of between 2 weeks to 3 months each to USA and Mexico
covering the operation and maintenance of I&D systems, hand over of I&D systems to
farmers, and strengthening of Water Users Organizations (WUOs). The GDRS trained 61
staff, 28 pursued formal Masters degree courses or other short courses in land drainage in
Holland, and 33 benefitted from the study tours to Spain, USA and Chile. Overall the
training program had a good impact on both DSI and GDRS trainees, the tour by DSI
trainees to Mexico for the study of the transfer of I&D schemes management to farmers
making the best contribution. In addition to the formal training and study tours, 26
counterpart staff from DSI and 22 counterpart staff from GDRS were seconded to work with



- 6 -
the project consultants, who received on-the-job training. DSI and GDRS staff and four
provincial governors went on a one week tour to Spain to study the mandatory transfer of
irrigation schemes to farmers' WUOs.
19.   DSI computerization: The Bank agreed, in 1993, to the DSI request for assistance
in the procurement of additional hardware and software for computer facilities, estimated to
cost US$0.55 million. The procurement under ICB package having run into considerable
processing delays, DSI decided to procure 45 PCs locally at a cost of US$0.2 million.
However, as of June 1995, the procurement had not been completed.
Planning Objectives
20.   General: Under the project, three studies were completed to assist DSI and GDRS in
the planning of investments and implementation of the I&D, SDW, SSDW, and LRW, as
given below:
21.   Preparation of second time slice: Fourteen I&D schemes were studied for the
SDW, SSDW, LRW and other requirements, of which 12 were selected for inclusion in the
proposed second time slice project. Detailed designs (but not tender documents) have been
completed for the SDW and SSDW required in about 55,000 ha distributed over the 12
schemes. The cost is estimated at US$71.7 million (US$38.2 million for SDW and US$33.5
million for SSDW). Other components of on-farm development works for the time-slice
project are described in para. 22.
22.  Irrigation Master Plan: This study was to be originally carried out under the Bank-
funded Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis Irrigation Project (Ln. 2433-TU) but was transferred to the
DOFD project due to lack of available funds in the earlier loan (Bank review in 1989). In
December 1991, the Irrigation Master Plan (IMP), presenting a 10-year irrigation investment
strategy for the years 1992-2001, was finalized. IMP was based on recalculated ERRs of
over 400 projects, with the priority for implementation in descending order of ERR, under
different scenarios of investment budgets and executing capabilities of DSI and GDRS.
Subsequent yearly IMP updates took into account the ongoing construction and completion of
schemes; the 1995 update presents an investment plan for the period 1996-2005.
23.   On-farm development inventory and planning study: This study was not foreseen
at project appraisal but need became apparent as a result of slow progress in SSDW. The
objective of the study was to determine the scope, cost and economic feasibility of on farm
development and to prioritise subprojects for a development package. The study which took
16 months, from January to April 1993, identified 29 schemes with viable ERR on which
work could commence prior or parallel to DSI rehabilitation work. In addition, the study
concluded that successful implementation of SSDW work required greater user participation
in the planning and development work, and user groups were needed which can be formed
on the basis of hydraulic units, to bear O&M and investment cost.



24.   Transfer of I&D schemes to WUOs. As preparation for future Bank lending to
support Turkish irrigation development, Bank prepared in 1992 an "Irrigation Management
and Investment Review" ([IUR). During its preparation, it became clear that the tightening
national budget situation no longer permitted continuation of the generous subsidies which
had been provided annually to fill the widening gap between O&M expenditures and
collected water tariffs. With insufficient funding, IMIR predicted a rapidly approaching need
for widespread rehabilitation as a result of continuously deferred maintenance.
25.   Recognizing that the collection of water-charges by government agencies would never
be able to reach full coverage of O&M costs, IMIR recommended divesting DSI of the its
public responsibility for the management of I&D completed schemes, by transferring these to
farmers' WUOs. During 1993, many discussions and conferences among various irrigation
interests and government authorities were held, and project-supported visits to successfully
transferred irrigation districts in Spain and Mexico were arranged for the decision makers. It
convinced the DSI management to initiate large-scale transfer trials in four provinces in
1994. The success was so convincing, that the program snowballed beyond any expectation.
By June 1995, the management on 670,000 ha had been transferred to WUOs, or 42% of the
DSI-managed acreage of 1.6 million ha. The program aimed to reach 1 million transferred
hectares by the end of 1995. It has resulted in substantial savings to the Turkish Treasury,
expected to reach the order of US$100 million per year in 1996. Already, it is drawing
irrigation specialists from other Mediterranean and Balkan countries to observe the Turkish
program, taking place in a low-key, low expenditure fashion, using local capabilities.
26.   This development was not planned at the time of appraisal. It emerged when the time
was ripe for it, and when the Bank's assistance could be actively provided under the only
ongoing Bank-financed I&D project. It was actively supported by Bank supervision staff,
who took advantage of the window of opportunity and initiated the arrangements for the
foreign study tours for the concemed officials to expose them to such transfer programs.
Great praise is due to the DSI management for deciding to experiment first, and then accept
such a fundamental change. The project reversed the traditional view that led to a
continuous growth of public expenditures, in step with the continuing growth in acreage
brought under public irrigation. The Turkish endorsement and active promotion of the
transfer program is the outstanding, but unanticipated at appraisal, success of this project, the
results having national significance.
Economic and Financial Objectives
27.   Costs: Actual project costs (excluding cost of completion of IAEE schemes of
US$81.2 million) amount to about US$180.3 million (Appendix C, Table 1) or about 38% of
the amount estimated at appraisal. The main reasons were the reduced GDRS program
(para. 4); and higher unit costs used at appraisal for both DSI and GDRS works. Little
experience with subsurface drainage installation was available in Turkey at the time of
appraisal and the SAR cost estimates were to a large extent based on West-European costs.
Thus, SAR unit cost estimates for SSDW ranged from a minimum of US$1,400/ha



- 8 -
(Menemen) to a maximum of about US$2,900/ha (K.O.S.). Actual costs for 1995 vary from
US$885/ha (Turgutlu) to about US$1,500/ha (Saraykoy).
28.   Financial returns: Four farm models were developed at appraisal to assess the
project impact on the waterlogged and non-waterlogged areas of the I&D schemes. Because
of lack of data, this ICR financial analysis does not present farm models. Instead, three
different "before and after project" scenarios, for Adana and Izmir (coastal areas) and Konya
(inland area) are presented for two ha farms. The financial returns are satisfactory with
increases in net farm incomes of 60%, 75% and 50% for Adana, Izmir and Konya
respectively (Appendix C, Table 6).
29.   Economic returns: Total project costs for economic analysis (Appendix C, Table 5)
have been worked out in constant TL June 1995 prices (Appendix C, Table 1). The
agricultural products were divided into tradeable and non-tradeable, and the farm gate
economic price for the tradeable was calculated from the Bank projections for the commodity
prices duly adjusted for the transport, handling, and processing. For the non-tradeable, the
financial price was taken as economic. Economic and financial prices of crops are given in
Appendix C, Table 4.
30.   At appraisal, Economic Rates of Return (ERR) were estimated for five schemes in the
coastal areas and for one in the inland zone. These ERRs ranged from 22% to 31 % in the
coastal areas, 10% in the inland zone, and 22% for the project as a whole. The ex-post
economic re-evaluation has been carried out for this ICR for three packages (Appendix C,
Table 7) giving ERRs of 20.7%, 24.0% and 18.8% for Adana, Izmir and Konya
respectively. Results obtained for Adana are representative of the I&D schemes Seyhan,
Berdan, Silifke, Ceyhan in the coastal areas; and the results for Izmir for Saraykoy, Akcay,
Nazili, Menemen and Turgutlu, also in the coastal areas. Similarly, Konya represents a
typical situation for inland I&D schemes KOS IV and VII, and KOS VI. The ERR for the
project as a whole has been assessed at 21.6% which, in spite of the changes during
implementation, is in line with SAR's estimate. Approximately 75,000 farmers have
benefitted under the project or about 80% of the SAR target. The annual incremental
agricultural production, is estimated at 40,000 tons of cotton, 60,000 tons of wheat and about
70,000 tons of vegetables.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
31.   The performance of the contractors on the SSDW was generally poor. Of the seven
packages, three have had contracts rescinded (one package twice) and only one package
(Konya I) was completed within the original contract period. The problems arose from the
contractors' lacking suitable machinery and equipment (particularly trenchers), inexperience
in subsurface drainage works, unfamiliarity with ICB procedures, and non-cooperative
farmers.



Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
32.   Factors under government control were: (i) fulfillment of the condition of
effectiveness; (ii) GOT financial constraints, delaying release of funds on time, which
affected the progress of both the DSI and GDRS works from time to time; (iii) two agencies
(DSI and GDRS) were involved in project implementation and delays occurred from a lack of
synchronization in their activities (could be avoided if one agency was responsible for all the
project activities); (iv) the project consultants were employed only to assist DSI and GDRS in
the planning and general supervision of the project (responsibility for contract management
could have improved the project implementation); and (v) GOT's adoption of a policy to
transfer I&D schemes management responsibilities to the farmers (an important factor in
project sustainability).
33.   The Loan became effective on June 15, 1987, almost one year from the original
effectiveness deadline date of June 27, 1986. The conditions of effectiveness were (i)
appointment of project consultants, and (ii) approval by the Council of Ministers of cost
recovery rules and regulations for the GDRS. While the second condition was fulfilled on
November 8, 1986, the first condition posed problems as it took quite some time to reach
agreement on the terms and conditions of the contract. As negotiations with the short-listed
consultant were advancing satisfactorily, Bank agreed with the borrower request to make the
project effective on the aforesaid date; however, actual appointment of consultants took place
in September 1987, some three months later. Delays in the consultant appointments were
one of the key factors in the project implementation delays, as consultant services were
crucial to firm up the list of subprojects for the first and second time slices and to make for
the first slice detailed designs of the selected subprojects.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementation Agency Control
34.   A major factor affecting the slow progress of SSDW has been farmer resistance and
non-cooperation, either because they felt the works were unnecessary or did not want their
crops, in particular cotton, damaged by the construction activities. These problems could
have been lessened by better liaison and beneficiary involvement at the planning stage.
Other factors were: (i) delay in assigning the agreed counterpart staff to work with the
consultants, and in the appointment of the GDRS Project Manager; (ii) an unrealistic
assessment of the implementation capacities by the agencies and hence unrealistic
implementation schedule; (iii) lack of coordination between DSI and GDRS, both at central
and regional levels; (iv) delays in contractual procedures and approvals; (v) need for more
careful selection by GDRS of suitably qualified and experienced contractors for subsurface
drainage works, together with closer supervision and control during construction; and (vi)
desirability of more detailed project preparation by both DSI and GDRS.



- 10-
D. Project Sustainability
35.   The sustainability of the project wiU depend on: (a) efficient O&M of the systems
with suitably trained staff and equipment; (b) ensuring that O&M does not suffer for want of
funds; (c) mitigating the adverse affects of any environmental impact; and (c) acceptance of
the project by the farmers.
36.   Operation and Maintenance: O&M has been the responsibility of the O&M sections
of the Regional Directorates of DSI. In late 1993, the O&M Department of DSI in Ankara
started the transfer of major I&D schemes management responsibilities to the farmers
through the establishment of WUOs. Excellent progress has since been made. As for the
schemes under the project, as of June 30, 1995, transfer was complete in 12 of the 16
schemes and was in progress at 3 others (Silifke, Saraykoy and Nazili), with only one
scheme (Berdan) where the process was yet to begin. The corresponding areas were
136,432 ha (85%) transferred, 16,112 ha (10%) in progress and 8,500 ha (5%) yet to begin.
DSI expects to complete the transfer process in 1996, generaly in blocks of 10,000 ha. DSI
will stiUl remain responsible for the O&M of the main works such as dams and main canals,
the sale or hire of O&M equipment to the WUOs, and providing technical assistance. DSI is
currently not handing over responsibilities for the drainage systems to the WUOs, except at
Konya where the maintenance requirements are less than in other areas. This is appropriate
(though current levels of DSI drain maintenance need improvement as discussed in para. 35
of the aide-memoire), since the WUOs would probably focus initially on the irrigation
systems and do little or nothing to the drains. DSI wiUl pursue a progressive transfer
whereby the WUOs would take responsibilities for the drainage system when they are well
organized and equipped for the task.
37.   The drains have the constant problem of heavy growth of weeds, even in those
channels where recent remedial works were carried out under the project, except where drier
weather prevails. Excessive weeds cause siltatidh and backing-up in the drains, thereby
submerging the subsurface drain outlets. DSI normally carries out the maintenance work on
the drains every 3-5 years (irrigation canals are cleaned annually). The project wiUl increase
the drain maintenance requirements through the construction of new drains and deepening of
existing drains. The condition of the drains will require close monitoring by DSI to ensure
that SSDW outlets are not submerged, with the maintenance program increased as necessary.
Wastage of irrigation water into the drains, Which promotes weed growth, would also need to
be controlled.
38.   Cost recovery (O&M): At present DSI is attempting to recover the full annual O&M
cost from the farmers. Water charges for the current year are computed on the basis of the
actual O&M cost for the previous year, so there is a hidden subsidy element with inflation
running at 70% or higher per year. Collection of the charges is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance. The overaU recovery rate is presently estimated at 45%. The penalty
(10% above the outstanding charge) for late payment is meaningless in an environment of
high inflation, and delays are common because interest charges are not applied.



- 11 -
39.   Cost recovery (capital cost): DSI has the policy of recovering the capital cost
(without adjustment for inflation or interest) of a project over a 50 year period. No costs are
recovered for the first 10 years. Irrigation projects are divided into four types and the
recovery rate varies from TL 3000/acre to TL 7500/acre. Recovery without interest over a
long recovery period of about 40 years in an inflationary environment yields in real terms
only a negligible fraction of the actual capital cost. No cost recovery is presently carried out
by GDRS.
40.   Environmental impact: The project is confined to areas which are already
developed and served by fully or partially completed I&D systems. Any negative impact is
inconsequential. Drainage effluent from the irrigated lands is discharged into the sea or large
rivers and lakes and no detrimental effects occur. However, in response to the action
required by the Bank supervision mission of June 1988, DSI and GDRS undertook
environmental studies. As a result, certain designs were revised to mitigate possible negative
environmental effects, and particular attention was paid to the Menemen scheme which
required additional water for the preservation of the wet lands natural reserve situated outside
but adjacent to the project.
41.   Acceptance of the project by the farmers: Where the drainage improvement works
have been completed, farmers welcome the project, and quote examples of tangible benefits
(yields, cropped areas, etc.). They also welcome the transfer of management responsibility
from DSI to WUOs.
42.   Conclusions: On the basis of the criteria given in para. 33 and discussed above, the
project is sustainable. The major area of concern is the maintenance of the open drains
which must be kept clear of excessive weeds and silt to assure the carrying capacity and to
permit effective operation of the subsurface drains.
E. Bank Performance
43.   Although the Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory, its performance
concerning project preparation and appraisal was not. In spite of spending considerable time,
213.1 staff weeks, to bring the project into appraisal stage, the project was poorly prepared
since the basic criteria for drainage were not examined adequately and a detailed design for
at least the first year of implementation (until consultants would be appointed and have time
to prepare the remaining programs) was not prepared. In addition during the project
preparation stage, the stockholder views were not taken into account; implementation
capacity shortcomings were not properly identified and addressed, specially lack of GDRS's
experience with the rules and regulations of construction under ICB contract, and macro
economic constraints on the capacity to provide counterpart funds were not properly
considered. Furthermore, the project cost seems to be based on inflated unit costs
experienced, outside Turkey. The Bank and the implementing agencies failed to revise
project costs and determine a realistic work program that could be carried out during the
remaining project time and avoid unnecessary commitment fees. The implementing agencies,



- 12 -
however, became more confident as they gained experience with the ICB roles and overcame
the implementation problem. As such, they were expecting further extension. Therefore,
they did not request cancellation of unutilized funds until they became convinced that there
would be no extension.
44.   Sixteen supervision mission were mounted during project implementation (Table 13),
which were adequate. The Bank's supervision role was generally adequate and was
especially noteworthy in assisting DSI with the transfer of O&M responsibilities to WUOs.
Bank staff convened several discussion meetings and conferences, and initiated the
arrangements for the foreign study tours of local staff to expose them to such transfer
programs. The outcome of these efforts was highly successful, and resulted in the transfer of
42% of DSI-managed acreage of 1.6 million ha by June 1995. The Bank missions kept an
excellent working relation with the implementing agencies and succeeded in jointly resolving
a number of technical and institutional problems during the implementation period.
45.   With respect to the covenants on recovery of investment and O&M costs, the Bank
was unable to achieve compliance, and pushed instead the transfer of O&M responsibilities to
the farmers, thereby transferring the O&M cost recovery to the water users themselves.
F. Borrower's Performance
46.   DSI Successfully implemented over 97% of the works, exhibiting good performance.
GDRS, however, achieved only 50% of their target, indicating weak performance, though
the slow progress was not wholly attributable to weakness in GDRS. The project was not
prepared properly to permit GDRS to commence its work as soon as project became
effective. Commencement of work dependent on the consultant to be appointed and present
detailed study of subprojects which accomplished with more than three years delays. In
addition, the surface drains have to be necessarily completed first for the subsurface drains to
function and SSDW has to lag behind SDW; the high level of farmer no-cooperation was
certainly not foreseen; and the contractors executing the GDRS jobs had no previous good
experience and were learning on the project.
47.   Although the SAR recommendations with respect to coordinating activities were
generally followed, various supervision missions noted that closer cooperation between DSI
and GDRS could have improved project implementation.
48.   DSI has to be given credit for the initiative and progress in the transfer of O&M
responsibilities to the farmers. The program (paras 23-25) has raised the impact of the
project to the national level and is creating international interest.



- 13 -
G. Assessment of Outcome
49.   Although not all project works have been implemented, the project's outcome is rated
as satisfactory. Where the works are complete, the project has fully achieved its objectives,
and significant benefits in terms of crop yields have been realized. Where only the surface
drainage improvements are complete, partial benefits are reported. Project sustainability is
good, although the surface drains should be properly maintained to ensure drainage and
effective operation of the subsurface drains. The privatization of scheme management is an
outstanding success.
H. Future Operation
50.   Responsibility for the O&M of the irrigation systems in about 85% of the project area
has already been handed over by DSI to the farmers, and full transfer is planned for late
1996. Except at Konya, hand over of the drainage systems will remain the responsibility of
DSI until DSI is confident that the WUOs are suitably financed and equipped. DSI will
continue to monitor irrigated areas, groundwater levels, and agronomic data including
cropping patterns and yields.
51.   Both DSI and GDRS have indicated that they will complete the balance works using
their own resources. They also express a strong desire for Bank assistance for the proposed
second time slice project.
I. Key Lessons Learnt
52.   The key lessons learnt from the project are:
(a)   Appraisal of such a large and relatively complex project requires more careful
and costly engineering preparation studies to avoid the major changes in
project components, quantities and costs. The basic change in drainage design
criteria is a typical example of what should have been determined during the
preparation stage. A detailed, more formalized approach is required including
pre-lending approval by the Bank of detailed project implementation, design,
operation and maintenance plans and mechanisms appropriate for any future
project at hand, including time-bound scheduling of performance activities and
management warning systems.
(b)   It was possible to convince GOT of the benefits of scheme management
transfer (privatization) because:
the time was ripe; the reduction in O&M subsidies having started a
trend to defer maintenance in a way that alarmed DSI;



- 14 -
it was possible to quantify a deteriorating situation and propose a
proven solution that could be studied elsewhere; and
-     the solution was painless by not requiring massive layoffs.
(c)   The employment of a single project consultant to assist both DSI and ODRS
avoided additional coordination and liaison problems.
(d)   Beneficiary involvement at planning and design stages was inadequate and led
many farmers to oppose project implementation. This was a major ctor in
the slow progress of the subsurface drainage works.
(e)   Suitable qualifications and experience should have been included in the
selection criteria, to avoid the problems experienced with the subsurface
drainage contractors.



- 15 -
PART ML STATISNCAL A tEXES
Table 1: S_umary of Aenimb
A. ieatof obiggm2auiL                      EtlL      fh&NLMU
()         (0) (                 (V
m elo o iCi1
Fal Eo                                   O         F           O
bi  dsP-                      E            
Phyuicd objecdvms             Ei                   El         El
Povm                         El                              E    
Gadius                        El        El           l        o
Od oil objctive              E1                    E 1         0i
E.viaminblobjctive.         IZ]        7l         El          EI
P     bicmsckmmngemmt         E                    El          El
Pivai ncIor develpmt                          - 
Od (QEl)                                             l O      El
D. Pro        i;               LissdeiY y    iA
El Es                E
C.upkrvia.                      El         Disfc      E
(.0       (.0        (.0
Idntification                m          m          m
Supwion                     OEl                    E
D. Borrower formance            satisfiwr    Sa -sfactory  Deficient
Prepartion                    0          
Implammont tio                O                    F-I 
Coveant compliance            El                   El
Operalion (if applicable)     El        ED         El



- 16 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit Title           Purpose                                     Year of         Status
Approval
1. Corum-Cankiri Rurd       Rural development including irrigation to    1975          Closed
Development Project, Ln.  increase agricultural production and incomes
1130-TU                 and expand rural employment opporturities.
2. Erzunm Rual              Irrigation development, soil conservation,   1982           Closed
Development Project, Ln.  roads, plant protection and veterinary services
2094-TU                 components.
3. Second Agricultural      Supported credit for on-farm development to
Credit Project,         increase agricultural production, raise farmers'    1984    Closed
Ln. 2318-TU             productivity and incomes, and various other
free-standing agricultural projects, and an
action plan for institutional development.
4. Agriculturl Sector       Deepen, broaden and refine agricultural      1985           Closed
Adjustment,             adjustment programme through agreed policy
Ln. 2585-TU             reforms.
5. Agriculturd Extension    Development and dissemination of improved    1984           Closed
and Applied Research    agricultural technology to foster increased
Project, Ln. 2405-TU    productivity and agricultural incomes.
6. IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-   Increase agriculture production and incomes      1984           Closed
ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation   and help provide for a national long-term
Project,                investment programme for irrigation
Ln. 2433-TU             development.
7. Agroindustry Project, Ln.  Expansion and modernization of agroindustry  1989         Under
3077-TU                 sector, improve capacity utilization, various           implementation
fisheries surveys, pilot marketing training
programme.
8. Agriculture Credit m,    Strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Turkey's  1989         Closed
Ln. 3090-TU             (TCZB) financial position through increase in
its equity, settling claims of TCZB to
Government and improving its ratio of
networth to total assets.
9. Agriculturl Extension n   Increased productivity and income through   1990           Under
Project, Ln. 3177-TU    improving the flow of information and the              implementation
transmission of relevant technology.
10. Agricultural Research  Institutional strengthening of research and   1992          Under
Project, Ln. 3472-TU    strengthening high-priority research                   implementation
programmes.
11. Eustern Anatolia        Addresses rural poverty and natural resource  1993         Under
Watershed Project,      degradation though a participatory approach to         implementation
Ln. 3567-TU             watershed rehabilitation.



- 17 -
Table 3: Project Timetabk
Date Actuall
Steps in Project Cycle                          Date Planned          Latest Estimate
Identification"                                                       1984
P_eparationl_                                                         early 1985
Appraisal                                                             June 1985
Negotiations                                                          January 6, 1986
Board presentafion                                                    March 20, 1986
Signing                                                               March 27, 1986
Effectiveness                                   June 27, 1986         June 15, 1987
Midterm review (if applicable)                  n.a.                  n.a
Project completion                               December 31, 1991    December 31, 1994
Loan closing                                    June 30, 1992         June 30, 1995 -
It took over one year to have the Loan effective due to delay in making satisfactory arngements for GDRS cost
recovery and appointment of project consultants, the two conditions for Loan effectiveness.
* Not yet finally closed
Table 4: Loan Dibursents: Cumative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millon)
...-...----...----   ---(WB Fiscal Year) ........................
11986/87 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95 1995/96
|Appraisal    11.0    51.0    98.0   149.0  200.0   255.0   255.0    205.02'   175.0"  175.0
ttimate
Actual'       -     20.0    20.4    29.3    41.2    85.0    105.9    141.9    155.7 173.95'
Actual as %    -    39.2    20.8    19.7    20.6    33.3    41.5    69.2         89.0   99.4
f estimate
Date of Last Disbursement: November 28, 1995
I   Several bank nuisons during 1984 and early 1985 assisted the GOT in the design of the project.
v US$ 50.0 million were cancelled on 9 February 1994.
US$ 30.0 million were cancelled on 7 October 1994.
As of November 28, 1995, a total of USS 1.1 million remained undisbursed. It has not yet been cancelled.
V  It includes USS 56.9 million disbursed to complete the works under the LAEE project (LU. 2433-TU).



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated
Key Impemenbtion Idicators                Unit       SAR        Revised      Actual u
in 1988
Surface Drainage Works
- Area improved                           ha       668,000      161,027       197,0002v
- New Drauins                             km         n.g.         403           377
- Remodeling Drains                       km         n.g.        3,960         3,597
- Stnctures                               nos        n.g.        2,599         2,401
- Pumping Stations                        nos        n.g.          12           12
Subsurface Drainage and On-farm Works
- Area improved                           ha       137,500      133,339       66,041
- Laterals                                km         n.g.        14,277       5,886
- Collector Drains                        km         n.g.        2,649         946
- Land reclamation using gypsum           ha        40,000        9,499         2,271
- Farm roads                              km         1,310         733          625
Misellaneous
-Facilities for O&M                        -     not specified     -          100%
- Installation of piezoneters             no.    not specified     -        1 per 100 ha
- Strengthening of Drinage Research       no.         2            2            2
-Tining                                   p/m        400          250          250
- Equipment Procurement
Dump Tnrcks                              nos         -           365          365
Current meters                           nos         -           90            90
Echo sounders                            nos         -            2            2
Water level recorders                    nos         -           60            60
Survey equipment                         sets        -           10            10
Computor hardwae & soft ware             sets        -           45           u.p.
Laboratory equipment                     lot         -            1            1
n.g = quantities were not given, being time slice lending.
u.p. = under procurment.
p/mr = trainee months
Does not include quantities for completion of balance works at the schemes of LAEE project.
2' Includes approximately 40,000 ha of desilting in areas outside of the first time slice.



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Key indicators for future operation
are as follows:
1.  DSI to continue the establishment of WUAs to futher implement the on-going national programme
of management transfer of irrigation schemes to farmers.
2. DSI to promote O&M cost recovery rate in not yet transferred schemes.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined    Status                   Impact of study
Maste Plan for     Establish priority for    The study originally      It has provided the GOT
Investment in      completion of many       included in the IAEE       with a comprehensive
Irrigation         irrigation schemes in     Project (In. 2433-TU) was  portfolio of 585 on-going
Development (IMP) various stages of          completed in December     and proposed projects
construction and develop  1991. The 1995 annual    which have been
criteria for future       update is available.     examined and ranked in
investment choices and                             order of their priority
establish a programme of                           and expected retuns.
institutional support as                           Investment plan for the
required.                                          Years 1996-2005 now
available.
On-Farm            This study was not foreseen  Completed in April 1993.   Priority area of 12,000
Development        at appraisal. To identify                          ha was identified for
Inventory and      difficulties in implementing                       promoting greater farmer
Planning (OFDIP)   on-farm works.                                     participation in on-farm
development works.



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimat (USSM)         Actual' (US$M)
Local  Foreign              Local  Foreign
Item                                   Costs   Costs     Total     Costs   Costs       Total
A.  Surface Drainage Works - DSI       82.3    81.7       164.02    50.1    52.2        102.3
B.  Subsurface Drinage Works - GDRS    141.6   166.6     308.22'   20.8    23.0         43.8
C.  Equipment, etc.                      -       -         -         -      18.9       18.9
D.  Consulting Services                  1.6    6.0        7.6       -      13.8        13.8
E.  Tmaining                             -       0.7       0.7       -       1.5         1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  225.5   255.0      480.5     70.9    109.4      180.3
Table 8B: Project Flnandng
Appraisal Esimate (US$M)      ActuaIatest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign               Local     Foreign
Source                    Costs     Costs    Total      Costs       Costs      Total
IBRD Funds                  -       255.0    255.0       7.6        109.4      117.0O
Govemment Funds           225.5       -      225.5       63.3        -          63.3
TOTAL                    225.S    255.0    480.5        70.9      109.4       180.3
" Details are given in Appendix C, Table 1. Does not include cost of completion of balance work at the schemes
under IAEE project.
2/ Including miscellaneous works (On-farm Development).
V   Does not include USS 56.9 million disbursed to complete the works under the LAEE project (La. 2433-TU).



- 21 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Actual project costs amount to about US$180.3 million (Appendix C, Table 1). The
annual actual costs werre converted into economic costs by expressing these in TL using the
exchange rates for the year and applying the deflators (Appendix C, Table 2).
The economic farm gate prices of the tradeable agricultural products were derived
from the Bank projections for commodity prices with adjustment for transport, handling, and
processing costs. For the products considered non tradeable, the financial prices were taken
as the economic prices. The conversion factor was taken as unity and labor was not shadow
priced.
Four farm models were developed at appraisal to represent the waterlogged and non-
waterlogged areas of the selected typical irrigation schemes. Because of lack of data, the
financial analysis carried out for this ICR is based on three different "before and after
project" scenarios, at Izmir and Adana for coastal areas and at Konya for inland area.
Results are considered highly satisfactory with increases in net farm incomes of 60%, 75%
and 50% for Adana, Izmir and Konya respectively (Appendix C, Table 6).
At appraisal, Economic Rates of Return (ERR) were estimated for five individual
projects in the coastal areas and for one project in the inland zone. These ERRs ranged from
22% to 31% for the individual projects in the coastal areas. For the Konya-Cumra project,
representing the inland area, the ERR was assessed at only 10%. The ERR for the project as
a whole, was estimated in the SAR at 22%. The ex-post economic re-evaluation as detailed
in Appendix C, Table 7 indicates ERRs of 20.7%, 24.0% and 18.8% for Adana, Izmir and
Konya respectively. Results obtained for Adana are representative of the irrigation schemes
in the coastal areas (Seyhan, Berdan, Silifke, Ceyhan); the results for Izmir, representig also
the coastal areas in the other schemes (Saraykoy, Akcay, Nazili, Menemen, and Turgutlu).
Konya represents a typical situation for inland irrigation schemes (KOS IV and VII, and KOS
VI). The ERR for the project as a whole has been assessed at 21.6% which is in line with
SAR estimate. Approximately 75,000 farmers have benefitted under the project or about
80% of the SAR target. The annual incremental agricultural production, able to generate
foreign exchange impact, is estimated at 40,000 tons of cotton, 60,000 tons of wheat and
about 70,000 tons of vegetables.



- 22 -
Tab  10: Stats of lAsa Cvm
Origina      Revised
Covenant  Preen       fulfilment    hdfilmeat  Deacription of
Agreement Section          type     status       date         date     covenant                 Conments
Loanm      3.03(a)          5         C          9/30                  Submission of proposed list
each year               of ubprojects for annual
investe.
3.030,)          5         C          9/30                  Submission of updated plan
each year               and financial plan for
finacing of project.
4.01(a-c)        t         C                                Mainteace of fiacial
records and acouns and
udit repons.
4.01(d)          I         C       Quatedy                  Submaao  of aatmea on Submnied in quartedy progrea
cot and expenditure.     report.
5.01             2        CP                                DSI irrigation coat      To eliinate or minfmize
recovery and improvement Government's irrigaton O&M
of collection.           subsidy and the need for its coat
recovery, DSI has strted with
major mcce.. tramufer of O&M
responsibility to uere. DSI in
also pursuing revision of the
penalty provisions for late
payment.
5.02                     NYD"                               Recover investment coat
from beneficiaries over a
period not exceediag 20
years from the completion
of investment time.
5.03                      CP                                GDRS to maintain         GDRS is actively eeking a
subsurface collector drains  more stainable arragement of
nd allocation of finus for trawfer of O&M responsibility
this purpowe.            to uwer.
5.04                       C                                Agriculural extension in   For moat areas covered under
completed area.          Loansa 2405-TU and 3177-TU.
5.05                       C        12/31/86     12/31/87   DSI's and ODRS's trining
progrmmes and
implementation of the
training progammes.
Supplemertl      9         C      Each quatder   10/12/90   Physical key indicators  Thee are included in project
Letter No. 2                      5/15, S/15,               from DSI and GDRS.       conautant's quarterly report.
1(a)                              11/15, 2/15
I(b)             9         C      Half yeady    10/12/90   Fncial data from DSI   These are included in project
U/15, 2/15              and GDRS.                 consultant's quarterly report.
2(a)             9         C         3131        10/12/90   Annual reports on        Implmentation information is
implementation and effects given in the quartery and
of drainage improvement.   emi-annual repons.
Status:   C    -  Compied with                CP   -  Complied with partilly          NC  - Not complied with
CD   -  Compliance after delay       NYD -  Not yet due
This becomes due after completion of subprojects and expiration of grace period.



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 i Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                Revised                Actual
Stage of         Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks      US$
project cycle
Tbrough appraisal       n.a         n.a          n.a        n.a       213.1       n.a
Negotiation             n.a         n.a          n.a        n.a        14.1       n.a
Supervision             136.6       n.a         161.9       n.a       201.3       n.a
Completion"             12.0        n.a          12.0       n.a        14.0       n.a
TOTAL                  n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a       431.4      n.a
" Carried out by FAO/CP.



- 24 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Specialized taff
Stage of          Month/          Number      Days in          skills        Iniplementation    Development     Types of
project cycle         year         of persons     field       represented"         status         objectives     probleni'
IdenLification"       1984/85          n.a          n.a             n.a                _
Preparation       upto early 1985      n.a          n.a             n.a
Appraisal            June 1985          5            -        IE, E, A, IE,D                    .-
Supervision'        April 1986           1           2              IE                n.a             n.a             n.a
Supervision          July 1986           1           7              lE                 2               2             P, M
Supervision       November 1987          1          35 B                              2               2             F, M
Supervision          June 1988           1           6              lE                 2               2             F, M
Supervision        Oct/Nov 1988         2           27            [E, ES               2               2             F, M
Supervision       April/May 1989         I          20              lB                 2               2             F, M
Supervision        October 1989         2            18           IE, DS               2               1             P, M
Supervision       September 1990        2           21            EE, ES               2               1             F, M
Supervision        Sept/Oct 1991        2           26            IE, PO               3               1            M, F, P
Supervision       Feb/March 1992        2            11          [E, PO                3               1            M, F, P
Supervision        October 1992         3            11        BE, PO, DS              3               1             M, C
Supervision          July 1993          2            16            EB, DS              3               2           C, M, F
Supervision        Sept/Oct 1993         1          23              IE                 3               2           C, M, F
Supervision         April 1994           1           18             IE                 2               2             M, F
Supervision       September 1994         1           9              lE                 2               2             M, F
Supervision         March 1995          2            8              IE                 2               2             M, F
Completion"          June 1995          2            14            E, IE              n.a             n.a             n.a
'    IE = Irrigation Engineer; DS = Drainage Specialist; A  =  Agronomist; E = Economist; FA  = Financial
Analyst; PO = Project Officer; ES = Environmental Specialist.
2'   F  =  Financial; M   =  Management; T  =  Technical; P  =  Procurement; C  =  Compliance with Legal
Covenants.
31   Several bank missions during 1984 and early 1985 assisted the GOT in the design of the project.
4/   No form 590 prepared for this mission.
5/   Carried out by FAO/CP.



TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE






TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 2663-TU)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
FAO/CP Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
1.    An FAO/WB Cooperative Programme Mission comprising Messrs. R. Suppa
(Economist/Mission Leader) and P. Warner (Irrigation & Drainage Engineer - Consultant)
visited Turkey from 12 to 28 June 1995 for the preparation of the ICR for the Drainage and
On-Farm Development (DOFD) Project. The mission held meetings with the concerned
officials of the Treasury, the State Planning Organisation (SPO), the General Directorate of
State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) and the
General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development (GPAPD). Respective field
officers of DSI and GDRS dealing with project implementation were met in Izmir, Aydin,
Adana and Konya. During field visits to selected schemes, the mission had fruitful
discussions with Water Users Organisations (WUOs) and met with contractors and project
beneficiaries. Liaison was maintained with the Deputy Task Manager of the project in the
World Bank Resident Mission in Turkey. The FAO a.i. was also kept informed of the
mission's activities.
2.    The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended by the Government
of Turkey (GOT) and its agencies, in particular DSI which, through its Office of Foreign
Relations, organised a very successful field trip to various schemes. Mrs N Kilinc of DSI
accompanied the mission throughout its field trip. The mission's preliminary findings and
recommendations, as given in this Aide Memoire, are subject to review and confirmation by
the WB management.
B. Background
3.    The project was appraised in 1986; the Loan Agreement was signed on 27 March
1986 and became effective on 15 June 1987. The main objective of the project was to
increase agricultural production and incomes by improving the productivity of existing
irrigation systems through concentration of GOT's resources on rehabilitation and
improvement of drainage systems, soil reclamation and other on-farm development works.
The project was prepared as the first time slice of a DOFD Core Programme and included
the following main components:
(a)   desilting, rehabilitation and remodelling of existing surface drainage systems,
and construction of additional surface drains, pump stations and associated
structures;
1



(b)   installation and rehabilitation of subsurface drainage systems;
(c)   reclamation of saline and alkaline land;
(d)   construction of access roads;
(e)   facilities for operation and maintenance (O&M);
(f)    monitoring of groundwater levels;
(g)   strengthening of Drainage Research Stations;
(h)   irrigation management improvement and training of DSI and GDRS staff; and
(i)   preparation of second stage project.
4.    The project cost was estimated at US$480.5 million, to be financed by a WB loan of
US$255.0 million and a GOT contribution for the remainder. Project implementation, as
foreseen at appraisal, was expected to be completed in six years from 1986 to 1991.
C. Project Implementation and Impact
Drainage and On-Farm Development Works
5.    The table on page 3 shows the main works in the project, (a) as identified in the
SAR, (b) as revised during the design phase, and (c) as completed at 30 June 1995. The
revised quantities are considerably less than was estimated in the SAR. The consultants found
that the total area requiring subsurface drainage in the 155 schemes in the Core Programme
was 233,000 ha, whereas the SAR estimated the figure at 440,000 ha. The main reason for
this was a lessening of the groundwater table depth criteria for 2 m to 1 m below ground
level. The SAR also estimated that 668,000 ha would require surface drainage rehabilitation
and cleaning in the first time slice, whereas the consultants arrived at a figure of 376,000 ha
for the whole Core Programme. In addition the installation of buried collectors in existing
subsurface drainage areas was determined to be uneconomic and was not carried out. This
reduction in the works enabled a number of schemes originally envisaged for the second time
slice to be included in the first time slice. DSI was also able to carry out some desilting
works in other schemes in the Core Programme.
2



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .   - I. | t-.. . .   " x ",,e"'' . -.   . .
Project Component                           Unt: : SAR:..
Rehabilitation and cleanin of existing surface      668,        161,044   -    1,200.'
drains
Construction of new surface dmains           ha     68,0X0    161,044        1400:
Installation of subsurface drains            ha - 137 500       133,339      5573
Installation of collector- pipes in existing  ha     75.000        -
subsurface drainage areas
Reclamation of saline and alkaline land      ha   -40            10,811      2,270*
Access roads                                 I=      1,31         733         :625
Facilities for O&M                                - not                      vano
s pecified
InstaUation of piezometers                             Iot                 1. pit 10 h-
specfied
Strengthening of Drainage Research Stations  no.       2           2            2
Training                                    p         . 400       250          250
^'  Includes approximately 40,000 ha of desilting in areas outide of the first time slce-
F   The reclamation material (gypsum) has been delivered to site byv the contractor but not yet applied
to the fields.
6.     The drainage and on farm development works cover a total net irrigable area (NIA) of
161,044 ha. Open surface drainage improvements (DSI responsibility) were planned for the
whole of this area, and subsurface drainage systems (GDRS responsibility) for 133,339 ha or
83% of the NIA. The works were divided into seven packages comprising 16 separate
schemes. A summary of their current implementation status is given below:
DSI Works                           GDRS Wo%   s
Package    Planned | Completed      Status             d    i| Compled -    St| t
(ha)        (hi)    1                (i, (?a)             l
Adana I     20,200      20,200      Complet      :2(,200Q:     19,170      compt -
Adana II    20,017      19,017      On-going      17,7iS         67       7ermiat
Adana III   36,085      32,541      On-ging      29,322        7,423   .   C}:
Izmnir 1    28,558      28,558      Complete:     19,732       6j065      Te Vn :
lzniir 11   17,400      17,400      Complete     13,769        6.493        n-gows
Konya 1     17,684      17,684      Complete      15O904       15,244      Co...et.
Konya II    2' ,100     15,000      On-going     16,617          500        gong
Totals      161,044     150,400                  133i339      :55953
(93%)                                 (41%)
The DSI works have been completed in four packages - Adana I, Izmir I, Izmir II and Konya
I. Work at the other three packages is on-going, giving an overall completion for the DSI
3



works of 93%. The GDRS works are less advanced, with only Adana I and Konya I
complete. Two contracts (Adana II and Izmir I) have been terminated and work is on-going
at the other three packages. Overall progress is 42% of the planned works. Further details of
physical implementation of the works by package are given below.
Adana I
7.    The Adana I package comprises one scheme - Seyhan I as shown below:
DSI Works (ha)            GDRS Works(ha)
|PlFoject  { Ranned   |  -Completed  l| anned  Compl..td
Seyhan I         20,200        20,200        20,200        19,170.
Both the DSI and GDRS works are complete. The DSI component was finished in 1990, with
the GDRS contract completed in 199. Significant benefits are already apparent - prior to the
improvement works in 1987/88 some 8,000 ha of the Seyhan I area had a groundwater table
depth of less than I m, but following completion of the project works in 1992/93 this area
had reduced to about 500 ha.
Adana H
8.    The Adana II package comprises three schemes as shown below:
DSI Works (ha)             . ... ...GDRS . W.rs. ha.
Project      |Planned        Completed      Plannlmed|  Compled ......
Seyhan II        8,800         8,800         8,-346         270
Berdan           8,500         7,500         8,004:         108      l
Silifke          2,717         2,717         1.445          300
Totals           20,017        19,017        17,795         678
The DSI works are complete at Seyhan II and Silifke, but there are about 1,000 ha still to be
finished at Berdan. Progress during 1994 and 1995 has been slow due to financial constraints
and shortage of plant, and DSI does not expect to complete the outstanding works before the
end of 1995.
9.    The progress of the GDRS works at Adana II has been disappointing. The contract of
the original contractor was terminated in 1992, with only 570 ha of subsurface drainage
installed after nearly two years. A new contractor was appointed in November 1992 but
achieved only 108 ha of subsurface drainage before stopping operations in late 1994. GDRS
has, in May 1995, terminated this second contract and have no immediate plans to re-start
the work. Thus only 678 ha (4%) of the planned subsurface drainage area has been
completed.
4



Adana m
10.   The Adana III package comprises three schemes as shown below:
DSI Works (ha)            GDRS Works (ha)
Project          Planned      Completed      Planned-     Completed.
Ceyhan            30,000        25,456        24,630        4,236
Kesiksuyu         3,100         3.100         1,707          960
Kahamanm          2,985         2,985         2,985         2,226
Totals            36,085        32,541        2!,322        7,423
The DSI works are complete at Kesiksuyu and Kahramanmaras, and at Ceyhan the works are
about 85% finished. Progress is slow and completion will not be before the end of 1995. The
DSI works include six new drainage pumping stations, the civil works for which are
essentially complete with the pumps already purchased and in store. Local contracts for the
installation of the pumps will be let, and after several delays it is understood that
Govemment approval to let these contracts has been obtained. The mission visited one of
these stations (Mercimek) and noted that although the standard of construction of the
operator's house was generally good, the workmanship of the pump station civil works was
poor with a number of minor finishing jobs still to be done. It is important that these defects
are put right before the pumps are installed.
11.   Progress of the GDRS works has been slow with only some 25% of the subsurface
drainage area complete. The main reasons for this have been a wet spring in 1995 and
farmers denying access to the contractor in order to prevent damage to their cotton crop. It is
also understood that the contractor stopped work in April 1995 due to a dispute over the
price adjustment formula in the contract documents for PVC subsurface drainage pipe.
Izmir I
12.   The Izmir I package comprises 4 schemes as shown below:
DSI Works (ha)            GDRS Works (ha)
Project      |  PlannedT  Completed         Planned      Covplet
Saraykoy         10,000        10,000        8,378         5,100    |
Curuksu           1,867        1,867         1,157          852
Akcay            13,296        13,296        9,599          113
Nazili           3,395         3,395          598            0
Totals           28,558        28,558        19,732        6,065
The DSI works were completed in 1993. Of the planned 19,732 ha of GDRS subsurface
drainage works, only 6,065 ha (31 %) has been completed, primarily at Saraykoy and
5



C'uruksu. The apparent reason is the unwillingness of the farmers to give the contractor
access to their fields, and the contract has therefore been terminated and no further works are
likely.
Izmir II
13.   The Izmir II package comprises two schemes as shown below:
DSI Works (ha)            GDRSVWorks (ha)
Project      |  Planned      Completedl  |  Plnnedo::     mpleted
Menenen          14,500       14,500        12,506        6,4935
lb gutlu         2,900        2,900         1,263          0
Totals           17,400       17,400       . 13,769      6,493 ..
The DSI works were completed in 1994. Problems were experienced at Menemen where
deepening the existing drains caused bank instability in areas of lighter soils, necessitating
flattening of the side slopes from their design of I in 2 to up to 1 in 5 in places. This has
caused additional problems of land acquisition and encroachment on adjacent canals. The
Menemen area also contains three new drainage pumping stations which are operational but,
according to the review consultants, have a number of minor defects in the civil works
requiring attention.
14.   The GDRS works are about 50% complete at Menemen. Based on progress to date,
final completion will be in 1998. The delays have been caused primarily by the reluctance of
farmers to give access to the contractor and, to a lesser extent, difficult soil conditions. At
Turgutlu the WUOs have informed GDRS that they do not want subsurface drainage, and no
works other than farm roads have been undertaken.
Konya I
15.   The Konya I package comprises the KOS IV and VII areas as shown below:
DSI Works (ha)            GIRS Wor..... (
f Project       Planned  X  Completed   j  Planned     Comleted
KOS IV & VI]     17,684       17,684        15,904       15,244    I
The DSI works were completed in 1995. The GDRS works were also completed in 1995
although the area covered was some 5% less than originally planned due to the presence of
hard material at shallow depth in some areas in the north of KOS VII. The mission visited
this scheme and was impressed with the standard of workmanship exhibited by the contractor
and the overall high level of cooperation evident between DSI, GDRS, the WIUOs and the
contractor. Ground water levels have reportedly been lowered from 0.5 m to 1.3 m below
ground level over much of the area, demonstrating the success of the project. It should be
6



noted however that due to the severe salinity and water table conditions prevailing before the
works, and that unlike Adana and Izmir this is not a cotton growing area (thereby giving the
contractor more access time), construction conditions and farmer reaction were more
favourable than in other regions.
Konya I
16.   The Konya II package comprises two schemes as shown below:
DSI Works (ha)           GDRS Works (ha)
Planned  |  Completed     - Planned  T  Completed
KOS VI          16,600        11,500       12,867         500
Uluirmak         4,500        3,500         3,750          0
Totals          21,100        15,000       16,617         500
The DSI earthworks programme is about 75% complete, although the structures are
progressing more slowly due to financial constraints, with only 25% completed. A final
completion date of mid-1996 seems probable. Other than some access roads and provision of
gypsum, no significant GDRS works have been completed to date. The contract of the
original contractor was terminated in June 1994 after nearly a year with no tangible progress.
A new contractor was however appointed in late 1994 - this is the same contractor who has
successfully completed the Konya I works and it is hoped that the same good rate of progress
can be achieved.
Facilities for O&M
17.   The SAR recommended that a number of small field offices, stores, workshops etc.
should be constructed under the project for O&M staff. Although a small number have been
built these have been funded from DSI resources. However, the loan has been used to
purchase various items of O&M plant and equipment.
Monitoring of Groundwater Levels
18.   The SAR recommended that piezorneters be purchased under the project for
monitoring groundwater levels. DSI have confirmed that a network has been installed, but
although funds were available under the loan, their own resources have been used.
Strengthening of Drainage Research Stations
19.   The project has provided various items of laboratory equipment for the Drainage
Research Stations at Menemen and Konya as recommended in the SAR. In addition various
repairs and extensions to the buildings at Konya have also been undertaken.
7



Training
20.   Some 81 DSI staff and 61 GDRS staff have received overseas training under the
project, ranging from study tours of two weeks to postgraduate Masters courses. In addition
DSI and GDRS provided counterparts to work with the project consultants and received on-
the-job training.
DSI Computerisation
21.   Under the project about US$0.55 million were made available for the procurement of
computer hardware and software. Procurement through ICB for the whole package has been
long delayed and finally DSI decided to procure only 45 PCs through "shopping" for which
only US$0.2 million was allocated. Although this is an indication of enhanced
computerisation of DSI, the real need for computers in some departments or branches
remains to be satisfied. For example the Design and Construction Dept still manually
prepares laborious tables of project accounts for GOT funds and/or external financing. The
overall computerisation need of DSI has ben estimated at US$8.0 million, including US$1.0
million for staff training. This programme should be considered under a possible second time
slice project.
Studies
22.   Two studies, an Irrigation Master Plan and On-Farm Development Study, although
not envisaged at appraisal, were subsequently included in the project.
23.   Irrigation Master Plan: In December 1991 the project consultants produced an
Irrigation Master Plan (IMP) which presented a 10 year irrigation strategy for DSI for the
years 1992-2001. Annual Reviews have also been prepared to review progress made and
update the IMP as necessary. The 1995 Annual Review gives an investment plan for the
years 1996-2005.
24.   On-farm development inventory and planning study: In April 1993 the project
Consultants prepared a study to select schemes under the operation of DSI which would
,     ,,,.. on-farm development works such as land levelling, additional drainage works,
-n;or canals and farm roads. A priority area of 12,000 ha was identified with an estimated
cost of US$13.1 million.
Preparation of Second Time Slice
25.   A total of 14 schemes have been studied by the Consultant for inclusion in a possible
second time slice project. Two schemes (Koprucay and Soke) were subsequently omitted and
for the remaining 12 schemes detailed designs for the surface and subsurface drainage works
have been prepared and costs estimated at US$71.7 million, comprising US$38.2 million and
US$33.5 million for the DSI and GDRS components respectively. As indicated in para 26,
some US$23.2 million still remain undisbursed and in principle would be available for
financing part of the remaining works under the first time slice, the cost of which is
estimated at US$14 million for DSI and US$24 million for GDRS. Considering the loan
8



closing date of 30 June 1995, full utilisation of the remaining loan is considered unrealistic.
In the event that these works are not completed using DSI and GDRS financial resources,
then the outstanding works could be considered for inclusion in the second time slice project.
D. Actual Project Costs and Disbursements
26.   Cumulative disbursements, as of 31 March 1995, amount to US$151.8 million which
represents about 60% of the total loan of US$255.0 million made available by the WB (Ln.
2663-TU). Taking into account the fact that US$80.0 million were cancelled, then some
US$23.2 remain undisbursed. The low percentage of disbursement is further reduced to
about 45% as some US$38.0 million were utilised to complete important civil works at Aksu
and Igdir irrigation schemes under the recently terminated Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis (IAEE)
Irrigation Project (Ln. 2433-TU). As both DSI and GDRS intend to use, as much as
possible, the remaining part of the loan by providing the required documentation before the
closing date of 30 June 1995, total final disbursements as well as total project costs will be
estimated during the course of the preparation of the ICR in Rome. It should be mentioned
that the original loan closing date of 30 June 1992 has been extended three times, each
extension being one year.
E. Institutional Performance
27.   The individual performance of the two institutions involved in project implementation
- DSI and GDRS - was generally satisfactory on the basis of the physical implementation
achieved (Section C). Better results were achieved by DSI as about 80% of their works were
carried out by force account. All GDRS works were carried out by contractors, and various
contractual problems with all packages except Adana I and Konya I have impeded progress.
GDRS staff have commented that they were unfamiliar with ICB procedures initially, but
now feel more confident. Although GDRS have apparently only completed 42% of their
planned works (see table on page 3) this figure underestimates the true position. Significant
areas of planned subsurface drainage are unlikely to be carried out either due to farmer
resistance or the need being less than originally envisaged. Taking these factors into account
suggests that the actual area where subsurface drainage is required is around 100,000 ha and
that the GDRS works are about 56% complete.
28.   Although the SAR recommendations with respect to coordinating project activities
have been followed, the mission noted that in some cases closer coordination at regional level
between DSI and GDRS would have improved project implementation. The good progress at
Konya I (para 15) where excellent coordination was reported illustrates this point. Some
farmers also commented that they were not kept sufficiently informed of the project
programme and activities.
29.  It is recommended that both DSI and GDRS make better use in the future of the
planning and monitoring system that has been developed under the project. The project
consultants have systematically submitted precise monthly planning and monitoring tables
which should be used as a model.
9



30.   The mission commends concerned DSI staff for the excellent performance (Section F)
on transfer of irrigation systems to users, or privatisation of irrigation management.
F. Project Sustainability and Future Outlook
31.   Operation and maintenance (O&M): Effective O&M of the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure is fundamental to the sustainability of the project. During the field visit the
mission noted that in general the maintenance of the irrigation systems appeared satisfactory.
The transfer of responsibility of irrigation systems from DSI to the WUOs (para 38) should
not worsen the situation. Drains however, with the exception of Konya I and II, were often
in poor condition. Severe weed growth was often apparent, even in drains that had been
recently remodelled. DSI reportedly only carry out drain maintenance every 3-5 years and
the project will increase the work load due to the deepening of existing drains and
construction of new drains. It is important that the drains are regularly maintained otherwise
there is the danger of the subsurface drain outlets becoming submerged thereby rendering the
subsurface drainage systems ineffective. It is noted that generally DSI are, initially, not
handing over responsibilities for drainage systems to the WUOs. This is considered a correct
decision as to pass this major maintenance task to the farmers at this stage would be
inappropriate.
32.   Cost recovery (O&M): At present DSI is attempting to recover the full annual O&M
cost from the farmers. Water charges for the current year are computed on the basis of the
actual O&M cost for the previous year. The overall recovery rate is presently estimated at
45 %. The penalty for late payment is low (10% above the outstanding charge) and delays are
common because interest charges are not applied.
33.   Cost recovery (capital cost): In principle DSI normally recovers the capital cost of a
project over a 50 year period. No costs are recovered for the first 10 years (the "grace
period"). Irrigation projects are divided into four groups for this purpose and the recovery
rate varies from TL 300/decare (1 decare = 0.1 ha) to TL 750/decare. Recovery without
interest over a long recovery period of about 40 years yields in real terms only a small
fraction of the actual capital cost. No cost recovery is presently carried out by GDRS.
34.   Future outlook: DSI has made major progress in large scale transfer of O&M to
users. Often only the irrigation responsibilities are transferred initially, but it is planned that
eventually the drainage infrastructure will also be transferred. At the end of May 1995 some
670,000 ha representing about 40% of the total irrigation area managed by DSI had been
transferred. It is estimated that by the end of the year total transfers will reach about 1
million ha, or 60% of the total area previously managed by DSI. On the DOFD project
transfer is complete on 12 of the 16 schemes and is in progress on 3 others, with only one
scheme (Berdan in Adana II) where the process is yet to begin. The corresponding areas are
136,452 ha (85%) transferred and 16,112 (10%) in progress. Transfer to users will
considerably reduce the need for GOT O&M expenditure. As of today, almost 90% of the
water charges have reportedly been collected by the WUOs as against the 10% in schemes
still managed by DSI.
10



35.  In the Aide M6moire of the supervision mission carried out in March 1995 it is stated
that: "To expedite transfer to users of GDRS related schemes under the project, GDRS will
submit the required information about such schemes to DSI and DSI will give priority to
encouraging water users to establish WUOs in such areas." Although GDRS O&M activities
are presently limited to farm roads, the area covered under the project by subsurface
drainage works will inevitably need additional maintenance in the future such as repair of
drain outlets and flushing of the buried pipes. It is important therefore that transfer in these
areas follows the recommendations given above.
36.  In order to continue the transfer programme and complete the first time slice works
both DSI and GDRS expressed their strong desire for further WB assistance under a second
time slice project.
G. Key Lessons Learnt
37.   The key lessons learnt from the project are:
-     Close coordination between the implementing agencies, project beneficiaries
and contractors is essential to avoid delays in project implementation. A
positive experience can be derived from the implementation of the Konya I
package.
At planning stage, it is important to consider the beneficiaries needs by a
demand driven ("bottom-up") approach. This could have avoided many of the
problems of farmer resistance to the subsurface drainage works which has been
a significant factor in the slow progress of the GDRS works.
-     The length of the project period should be in line with the actual implementing
capacity of the executing agencies, especially when the works are carried out
by contractors following ICB guidelines.
-     The establishment of WUOs is a major step towards an effective and
sustainable system of irrigation and water management.
-     The employment of a single consultant to assist both DSI and GDRS has
proved to be beneficial. The appointment of a review consultant was also
necessary for such a large and complex project.
-     The problems with many of the GDRS subsurface drainage contractors
emphasise the importance of experience and qualifications in the selection
criteria.
H. Follow-Up
38.   The mission will return to Rome on 28 June 1995. During the following three weeks
it will prepare the draft ICR which will be transmitted to the WB by the end of July 1995. It
is recommended that the Borrower should also finalise its implementation completion report
11



and send it to the WB by early July 1995. The overall project completion report, prepared by
the project Consultants and covering the period 16 September 1987 to 30 June 1995 has been
handed over to the mission. It is considered a well prepared document and will assist with
the preparation of the ICR.
12



List of Institutions Visited/Persons Contacted
1.    Under-secretariat of Treasury - Ankara
Mrs. N. Sehnaz Ozer - Section Chief, WB Project Dept.
Mr. Serdar Guzey
2.    State Planning Organization (SPO) - Ankara
Mrs. Nevin Kanadikirik - Civil Engineer
3.    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) - Ankara
Mr. Salih Nogay - GDAPD, Division Chief, Extension
Mr. Ahmet Karakoc - GDAPD, Agric. Engineer, Extension
4.    State Hydraulic Works (DSI) - Ankara
Mr. Mumtaz Turfan - General Director
Mr. Mehmet Cagil - Chief Advisor on Foreign Relations
Mr. Muhittin Kuzu - Design and Construction Department
Mrs. Nihal Kilinc - Project Manager
Mrs. Sen Zulan - Civil Engineer, Planning Department
Mr. Zuhal Velioglu - Design and Construction Department
Mrs. Koksal Koksal - Design and Construction Department
Mr. Faiuk Volkan - Design and Construction Department
5.    General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) - Ankara
Mr. Onder Unal - Section Director
Mr. Cemalettin Tunca - Section Chief
Mr. Ahmet Zahir Erkan - Senior Agricultural Engineer
Mrs. Jale Tanzok - Agricultural Engineer
6.    DSI - Regional Directorates
Mr. Mustafa Kanalici - Adana
Mr. Adem Kuzulu - Adana
Mr. Fuat Arabaci - Adana
Mr. Hidayet Octen - Adana
Mr. Esat Tamer - Adana
Mr. Ibrahim Yalcin - Adana
Mr. Tuncay Arca - Adana
Mr. Mehmet Ozcal - Adana
Mr. Yasar Guler - Adana
13



Mr. Mahmut Cetin - Adana
Mr. Sirri Kazanci - Aydin
Mr. Ethem Tanriverdi - Aydin
Mr. Dogan Akar - Aydin
Mr. Ismet Koz - Aydin
Mr. Tuncay Boyaci - Izmir
Mr. Ahmet Ulusay - Izmir
Mr. Erkan Gurel - Izmir
Mr. Osman Tuk - Konya
Mr. Muammer Soganci - Konya
7.    GDRS - Regional Directorates
Mr. Turan Usluca - Adana
Mr. Yasin Eken - Adana
Mr. Irfan Gedik - Aydin
Mr. Nazih Akyildiz - Izmir
Mr. Zeki Kurak - Izmir
Mr. Ahmet Guven - Konya
8.    WUOs
Various WUO representatives and farmers were met in:
Menemen
Akcay
Seyhan
Ceyhan
Konya
9.    WB Resident Mission
Mrs. Nedret Durutan - Project Officer
10. FAO Representation
Mr. L.K. Jacobsen, FAO Representative, a.i.
Mr. Taylan Onul, Programme Assistant
11. Others
Mr. Seyhan Doner - Drainage Research Station, Konya
Mr. Ozbay Ergun - DST Consultants
Mr. Suat Armutlu - Bor Contractors
Mr. Yusuf Kaya - Kayalar Grubu Contractors
14



TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



GDRS's Implementation Completion Report on Loan 2663-TU
The Loan agreement signed in 1986, amounting of US $ 225 million, was provided
from the World Bank and the GDRS portion of which was US $ 173,250 million in the
beginning (Table I).
1- Civil Works
1.1 Project component related to civil works as follows:
- 275.000 ha of Land to be provided with subsurface drainage
- 78.000 ha of saline and alkaline land to be reclaimed
- 170.000 ha of land to be provided with access roads.
After the preliminary surveys investigated by the consultant on an area of 1.230.170
belonging to 155 projects, the area of 216.630 ha was included in the on-farm drainage and
reclamation program. 132.752 ha of which was consisted with 7 project packages and was
implemented as the first-time slice projects.
I time slice - 132.752 Ha (revised)
II time slice - 75.716 Ha
K6pr0qay (the project
has not been ready)
7575 Ha
216.043 Ha.
1.2 Implementation (Table II for 7 project)
2- Consultant Services:
According to the loan agreement, a consultant firm had to be recruited for the project.
The Joint Venture DST-Nedeco was nominated in 1987. Terms of reference of the
Consultant included the preparation of the reports namely, "On-Farm Development Inventory
and Planning Study" and "A Study of On-Farm Development Investment and Management in
Turkey".
The responsibility of supervising consultant services were awarded to Matt.
Mc.Donald Ltd.
The initial period was extended in parallel with the extension of the Loan closing date
until June 30 1995. Both Consultant firms fulfilled their tasks. Total expenditure of GDRS
for the Consultant service amounted US $ 5,742,000 (Table III).
3- Training:
Disbursement for the training was $ 601,241.16 (Table IV)



4- Research Station: Disbursement for the category 5 was $ 305.448.28 (table V)
5- IAEE Projects:
The Loan agreement undersigned in 1984 provided a project loan of US $
115.300.000 for four individual irrigation project, namely Igdir, Aksu, Eregli, Ercis (IAEE
project Loan 2433-TU). This loan was closed in June 30, 1992.
Since there had been uncompleted civil works component in the project at the time of
loan closing an agreement was reached between the Government and the Bank for inclusion
of the remaining IAEE works in the DOD Project in order to facilitate completion of the
LAEE components and finalize remaining disbursements. Total expenditure made from Loan
2663-TU for IAEE Project US $ 2.896.769 (Table II).
6- GDRS's comment on the 2663-TU project implementation.
Many problems have been encountered on DOD project from the beginning stage to
the completion of the works.
I- The major problems can be stated as below:
a) One of the requirements of Loan agreement was the provision of consulting
services. The award of contract was achieved for the Consulting services in 1987. Later,
the consulting firm prepared contract agreement. This preparation stage took nearly two
years. The first bidding was awarded in March, 1989, and the agreements were signed in
August, 1989. Before beginning the construction, 3 years was spent as the preparation stage
which later qualified as a delay of the work.
b) The construction works implemented within DOD project (2663-TU) were
awarded according to ICB rules which were very different from LCB rules for GDRS. The
significant difficulties were occurred for understanding, interpreting and implementing of
many articles of the contract. Cost Recovery which was requirement of loan agreement
(5.02) was not achieved. Since, farmer participation was not provided sufficiently. The
conflict was happened between the farmer and contractor due to the cultivation of the land
during the construction works. The farmer didn't allow the contractor to work on his land.
For this reason, GDRS was not able to give the land suitable for the drainage works so that
the contractor would work efficiently.
c) Because the contracts had to be packet projects of $15.000.000, the contractors
made the engagement of 1500 to 20000 hectares, whereas previously they had been able to
do the work of 1000 to 2000 hectares. However, the given duration for the completion of
the works was not matched to the size of the area worked on. Consequently, this created the
problem between the contractor and GDRS in terms of extension of time for completion.
2



d) The lack of coordination with DSI made the works delayed. (In the entrance of
the laterals and collectors to DSI canals, not being adjusted to the level of closed drainage
inlets, not working pumping station, etc.)
e) In addition to these, the implementation of On-Farm Management Works was Realized in
a difficulty without Land consolidation.
II- Recommendation to solve the encountered problems
a) If the contract agreements had been prepared in the beginning stage, a 3 year
delay would not have been occurred. Therefore, regarding to the future projects, the issue
related to the contract agreement was made clear before implementing loan agreement.
b) The conditions of the contract ought to be overviewed by taking into account the
condition of our country. Some elasticities should be made by taking into account farmer
behavior and crop pattern.
c) The completion of the projects should be determined according to the size of
project, local conditions and the related crop pattern.
d) DSI must construct open drainage canal in compliance with the closed drainage
level which were on the implementation project so that the closed drainage inlet structures
would not been under the drainage canals belonging to DSI.
e) Drainage and On-Farm Management works should be implemented in compliance
with land consolidation projects in order to both minimize farmer conflict, and make it
efficient and economical.
7- Works done until the end of 1995 were shown in Table 5.
(Purchasing pipes belonging to these works was realized until the end of June, 1995.
Most of which has been laid later after this date.)
3



TABLE 1
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEV. PROJECT (2663 TU)
Category                     Beginning         Revised I           Revised 11        Revised m         Revised IV        Revised V           Disbursement end
of thle 6.95
1. Civil Works                    169.000.000         169.000.000       134.644.000      126.944.000        76.644.000          46.644.000        34.820.743
2. Engineering Consultarn           3.495.000           3.495.000         3.495.000        7.000.000         7.000.000           7.000.000         5.277.498
3. Reviewing Consultant              305.000             305.000           305.000           500.000           500.000             500.000           464.905
4. Training                          350.000             350.000           350.000           500.000           601.000             601.000           451.241
5. Equipment                         100.000             500.000           500.000           500.000           50).000             500.000           305.448
TOTAL                             173.250.000         173.650.000       139.294.000       135.444.000       85.245.000          55.245.000        41.319.843
4a



T A   LE   II
1994 UP TO THE END OF 1994                                              1995 (END OF JUNE)                                        TOTAL
PROJECT    REVISED  ---------------------------------------------------             ------------
AREA(HA)   AREAMEA)   AREAIIA)   CREDIT TL    TOTAL TL    CREDIT $                    AREA(HAI  CREDIT TL    TOTAL TL  CREDIT $             AREA(HA)  CREDIT TL   TOTAL TL  CREDIT $
CIVIL WORKS
ADANA 1              20200    19170           19170       36485         49892            8421                                                                    19170      36485      49892       8421
IZMIR 1              19732      6065           6065       10683        15117             3072                                                                     065      10683      15117       3072
IZIIIR I                                            REFUND                               -450                                                                          REFUND                     -450
ADANA 2              17795    17795             678       15317         19437             1580                                                                     678      153)1      1`5437      1580
MZNIR 2              13769    12.0506          6253       72111        86402             2990                712        378        9578      1.9                  565       005!09     96,28      3179
EONYA 1              15904    15244           14794      118377       144633             6611                22I        3418       4021        78                15022  121795        148654       6689
ADANA 3              292       29322           7073       74676        90123             3275                350        5787       6808      130                  7423      50453      96931       3405
KORTYA 2             i661f7    166t7              -           -             -                -              3707      223443    262874    5151                    3707     223447     26 2874      5151
TOTAL:              133339   116719          54033       327649       405604            25499               4997      241046    283581    5548                   59030    568695    689185    31047
8- iGOIR) 30 .6. 92!
31.12.93)                                      8703       29074        36342              2897                                                                    8703      29074      36342       2897
T O  T     L:                                 62736      356723       441946            28396               4997      241046    283581    5548                   67733    597769    725527        33944
4b



A B LE   III
1994 UP TO THE END OF 1994                                               1995 (END OF JUNE)                                          TOTAIL
PROJECT     REVISED   ---------------------------------------------------             -----------------------------------------
AREAIHI   hRE.9iHA)   AREA(HA)   CREDIT TL    TOTAL TL    CREDIT $                      AREAhNA)  CREDIT TL    TOTAL TL  CREDIT 3              AREA(HA)  CREDIT TL   TOTAL TL  CREDIT
CO  Q L LT AN 7
IMDST+NEDEC(OE!'f.CCNS                                     44542         54895             5126                           6393        7602      151                     0      50935       62497      5277
2-MC.I;ONALD(RFEViEW CO!,3.                                 4521          6118               423                           1347       2528        42                     0       6368       8656        465
TOPLAN                                                  49063         61013             5549                  0        8240       10140      193                     0      57303       71153      5742
4c



T A B L E IV
CATEGORY   4                                                       2663 - TU
UNIT                                     CREDIT         CREDIT            CREDIT (S)
SUBJECT             APLICATION NO.    DISBURShENT    RATF                  DISBURSNENT            PERCENTAGE
YEAR       (S)                TL -S
TRAINING            GDRS-2-3            1989             -           19513000 TL                   100           19513000 TL.
TRAINING            GDRS-2-4            1989              2317.36  211482274 TL   S 91260          100           $ 91260
TRAINING            GDRS-2-5            1989              2317.36   46231332 TL   $ 19950          100           $ 19950           $ 119822.41
TRAINING            GDRS-2-49           1990              2765.45   10304150 TL   $ 3726.03   100                $ 156926.03       $ 156926.03
TRAINING            GDRS-2-62           1991              4372.24  669827168 TL   $ 153200
TRAINING            GDrS-2-68           1994             22226.22  544380583 TL   $ 24492.72  100                $24492.72         $ 24492.72
TPRAINING           GDRS-2-81           1994             34378.11 5156716500 TL   S 150000         100           $ 150000          $ 150000
T O T A L  :                                                       6658455006 TL                                                    451241.16
Disbursemerit from the       150000.00
special account
601241.16
APPLICATION NO:
(Training for 19 person in Wagening
MORS 2-3            Overseas training charge of passanger ticket check.
GDRS 2-4            Training expense for Subsurface Dr.
GCRS 2-5            Daily expense for 19 person.
GCRS 2-49    \    Disbursement for 9 staff for HSc long-term training.
GDRS 2-62    /    Disbursement $ 3726,03 for visiting Turkey by the two specialist from Netherland
GROS 2-68           Disbursement for a study tour of 11 people from Turkey to Spain on water management,
farmers participation and transfer issues.
GDRS 2-81           Disbursenent for FAO to organize several study tours to USA, Chile and Spain on
farmiers participation, transfer of 0th Works to users. cost recovery issues. 22 person.
4d



CATEGORY : 5                                                                  2663 - TU
DISBURSRENT                                              CREDIT         CREDIT           CREDIT S
SUBJECT            APPLICATION NO.           YEAR                 DISBURSENENT                   PERCENTAGE
RESEARCH STATION  GDRS-2-1             1989                         20565317 TL.                 100             18695748 TL.    10244.98
RESEARCH STATION  GDRS-2-2             1989                          3959770 TL.                 100              3599791 TL.       1825.37
RESEARCH SThTION  GDRS-2-6             1990                        261817380 TL.                 100            238015800 Tb.   101399.82
RESEARCH STATION  GDRS-2-11            1990                         91476000 TI.                 100             83160000 TL.    34532.45
RESEARCB STATION  GDRS-2-22            1990                         93654000 TL.                 100             85140000 TL.    32862.31
RESEAiCN STATION  GDRS-2-31            1990                        109498840 T11.                1               99544400 TL.    36942.19
RESEARCH STATION  GIRS-2-53!*)         1991                        273790189 TL.                 100            273790189 TL       71479.72
(4H      1992                         87307171 TL.                 100              87387171 TL.    16161.38
T O T A L   :                                                      942148667 TL.                                889333099 TL    30544S.22
(4) EUILDING CONSTRUCTION NO TAX ADDED.
4e



Table V
(Implementation to December 30, 1995)
Adana I              lzmir I            Konya I          knmir 11 (1996)  Adana HI (1997)       Adana II        Konya 1 (1997)
Finished             Cancel             Finished                                                 Concel
Works      Unit   Project  Implemen.    Proj.- I|np.          Proj.-    Imp.      Proj-     hm.     Proj.     -np.     Proj      Imp.    Poj.  _Im.
Lateral      Km.       3.256       2.460     2.386       734     1153.2  1101.1    1222.7   667.3   3129.3  1028.1   (1985.8)        82      1.155      474
Collektor    Km.         319         306     370.7     115.7      269.4   207.6    358.9   195.4    590.3   197.8    (292.5)   44.1           419       131
Feeder       Km.       124.3       110.2    101.6       53.7      151.4   178.2       60.7    78.9    130.1       133       (117)   72.6       71        74
RoadsIIII
Arta         Ha.      20.200      19.170'   19.732      6065     15.904   14.794    13.769    7.537    29.322    8655   (17.800)    678    16.600      6859
Land         Ton           -           -   100.830    11.141      6.523    6.523                       2.131     1000     41.457            36.979   36.979
Reclamnation
| Hard Pen   Ha.       8.800                        :                                                                      2.733         ;
Proiect (Ha.)    Revised (Ha.)     Realized (Ha.)    (Realized up to the revized vrogect)
(133,327)        131,187           (63,758)                 % 48.6
Cancel Works     On Going Proiect
30,789               36,640
4f



DSI's Implementation Completion Report on the "Drainage and On-Farm
Development Project (DOD)" (Loan 2663-TU)
Upon the Loan Agreement signed in 1986, a loan amount of US$ 255 million was
provided from the World Bank for the implementation of the works by the General
Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI and the General Directorate of Rural Services
[GDRS]).
Implementation of the Drainage and On-Farm Development Project under the World
Bank Loan 2663-TU has been partially fulfilled by the General Directorate of the State
Hydraulic Works (DSI) of the Republic of Turkey.
DSI-related activities of the project as for activity groups and comments of DSI as
executing agency are given as the following:
1. Civil Works:
Project components related to civil works included:
- Implementation of drainage works of an area of 275,000 ha in the two time slice
core programs upon completion of the surveys to be conducted at 255 DSI schemes
comprising 1,230,170 ha.
- the preparation of irrigation master plan as a review of irrigation strategy,
- analysis of annual investment programs.
In addition to the above activities, i) surveys and inventory of the on-farm
development services of 189 DSI schemes which were managed by GDRS, ii) the review
study of On-Farm development investments and Management have been later included in the
project.
Above activities began with the commencement of the services of the Consultant firm
recruited as proceeds of the loan agreement in September 1987.
According to the preliminary surveys conducted by the Consultant on an area of
1,230,170 ha, out of 155 projects, 84 projects had no drainage problems, whereas 40
projects found to have minor problems and 31 projects were detected as drainage-deficient
and needed to have been taken under detailed survey program. Consequently, 309,983 ha
has been included in the on-farm drainage and reclamation program. Out of this area,
133,339 ha has been divided into 17 project and 7 project packages and brought under
implementation as the first-time slice projects. Remaining 83,291 ha has been divided into
14 projects and 6 project packages for further implementation programs. Project costs of the
5



remaining second slice projects are estimated at US$ 68,545,784 for DSI and US$
53,161,051 for GDRS, totalling US$121,706,835.
Upon the "on-farm works investigations and inventories" carried out for 189 DSI
schemes at the request of GDRS, 22 schemes required only DSI rehabilitation, 64 required
only GDRS on-farm development works, 92 schemes required development and rehabilitation
works of both organizations. The consultants' preliminary surveys carried out at 1,249,372
ha have revealed that the completion of GDRS works would cost US$ 290 million and DSI
works US$ 260 million.
Analysis of DSI irrigation strategy through a Master Plan have been completed in 17
volumes between 1988 and 1991.
Core program has been implemented on force account basis by DSI and on contract
basis by GDRS starting from year 1988.
Performance
The overall technical evaluation of the project performance revealed that all the
below-mentioned works and its components have been satisfactorily completed:
On the project area of 161,027 ha as stated "first time slice", 5 project packages out
of 7 have been completed covering an area of 157,000 ha. Completion rate of the remaining
two project packages have been 93% and 91 % respectively. In general, the overall physical
completion rate of the packages is at 97% and total project cost of the 7 packages are US$
88,308,666. In general, DSI has performed the drainage works quite satisfactorily.
Completion of IAEE works under DOD project:
The Loan Agreement undersigned between the Turkish Government and the World
Bank in 1984 provided a project loan of US $ 115,300,000 for four individual irrigation
projects namely: Igdir, Aksu, Eregli and Ercis (IAEE Project, Loan 2433-TU). The
responsible executing agencies for the project were DSI, GDRS and the Ministry of
Agriculture. The loan was closed in June 30, 1992.
Since there had been uncompleted civil works components in the project at the time of
loan closing, an agreement was reached by the Government and the Bank for inclusion of the
remaining LAEE works in the DOD Project in order to facilitate completion of the LAEE
components and finalize remaining disbursements.
Out of above-mentioned four projects, Eregli-lvriz component was completed using
local funds. However, Erci4-Koqkoprfl Project was financed by the Loan 2433-TU. Of
these projects, Lower Aksu Project components such as Kargi diversion dam, main canals
were completed to a great extent by funds provided from the Bank under Loan 2433-TU.
6



Within the same project, 4th, 5th, and 6th stages have been financed through Loan 2663-TU
and a total of 8,210 ha land has been put into irrigation operation.
In the Igdir project, all the main structures such as diversion dam, desilting basin,
conveyance and discharge canals and 15,000 ha irrigation scheme have been completed until
1992 under Loan 2433-Tu. However, an area of 17,264 ha have been completed through
DOD Project. Furthermore, rehabilitation works of 8,000 ha in the same project has been
financed by both Loans. An additional 15,000 ha needs to be completed and partly
renovated in the same project.
Inclusion of the remaining IAEE works in the DOD Project have substantially helped
completion of the pending works thus contributed the efficiency of the project as a whole.
Total expenditure made from Loan 2663-TU for IAEE Project amounted to US$
53,984,421.58.
2. Consultant Services:
According to the Loan Agreement, a consultant firm had to be recruited for the
project. Therefore, the joint venture DST - NEDCO was nominated in 1987. Terms of
Reference of the consultants included preparation of an irrigation master plan, review of
irrigation strategy and design and implementation of the core program. The responsibility of
supervising consultant services were awarded to Mott McDonald Ltd.
Although the initial period for both consultant services were foreseen 72 months, this
period was extended in parallel with the extension of the loan closing date until June 30,
1995.
Both consultant firms fulfilled their tasks in compliance with the agreements and their
work schedule in a successful manner. The total expenditure of DSI and GDRS for the
consultant services amounted US$12,384,786.
3. Cost Recovery Issue and the transfer of Irrigation System O&M Responsibility to
Water User Organizations (WUOs)
One of the most significant achievement of the project has been the acceleration of the
transfer of the operation and maintenance responsibility of the DSI-managed irrigation
systems to private user organizations. Transfer performance of DSI in parallel with the
support and persuasion of the Bank has been "spectacular".
As known, recovery of the project investment cost has been a major shortfall in the
project implementation and it has been stated in the project appraisal report. Main concerns
over the sensitivity of the cost recovery issue stemmed from the facts that; i) there has been
no ex-post relation between the investment and its recovery to generate funds for further
7



investments, ii) increasing O&M financial burden for DSI and Government which was
getting unbearable and unsustainable.
Main reasons for accelerating transfer program have been, i) heavy O&M financial
burden, ii) unsatisfactory O&M cost recovery (about 30%), iii) considerable increase in the
cost of O&M due to the role of unionized labor which aggravated the situation, iv) present
Government's general policy of promoting privatization, v) Bank's positive role in supporting
and exposing DSI staff to model countries such as USA and Mexico in this respect through
financing study-tours by the Project.
In line with the above concerns, main underlying objective for transfer program has
been minimizing O&M expenditures and thus application of indirect cost recovery by
transferring the responsibility of water charges collection to users.
Before 1993, Dsi focus was on transferring only small and isolated schemes.
However, after 1993, in view of the above reasons and with persuasion of the Bank's staff
and its cooperation in getting DSI's staff, at various levels, more exposed to accelerated
transfer of irrigation systems in the Latin American countries, especially Mexico, DSI's
policy shifted from transferring only the above small and isolated schemes to an accelerated
approach of transferring small and large schemes. By the closing date of the loan June 31,
1995, DSI transferred schemes reached 700,000 ha including schemes as large as 22,000 ha.
As a result of this success, Turkey has been considered a model for the countries of
this region and Asia.
This achievement can be considered the most important consequences of the overall
project and these activities are expected to lead to new concepts in irrigation projects
implementation such as participatory implementation and management of systems as well as
DSI's new approaches for provision of sustainability of the already transferred schemes.
4. Training
Concerned staff of DSI have been provided overseas training programs under the
Project. These programs included study-tours for drainage and on-farm works as well as for
participatory irrigation management as indicated at the previous section. Study-tours were
organized to countries with advanced irrigation and drainage schemes such as USA and to
"model" countries in transfer of irrigation to users such as Mexico.
The overall success of the training programs have proven to be well beyond
expectations especially for transfer of schemes. These visits had substantial effect in further
encouraging DSI's staff to pursue accelerated transfer.
5. Other Procurements
8



Under the project, DSI has procured parts and equipment for use for project
implementation. These equipment included spare parts for DSI machinery and 200 personal
computers.
DSI's Comments and Conclusions on the DOD Project Implementation
It is obvious that a proper drainage system is the most crucial complement of an
irrigation scheme. In this context, development of drainage and on-farm components of
irrigation systems in Turkey through this project has substantially contributed to meet the
needs and overall completion status has been evaluated as satisfying. However, two major
problems identified regarding the implementation are stated as below:
- continuation of cultivation and irrigation practice during the implementation,
- constraints due to counter funding.
As a conclusion, in addition to the positive physical impacts of the Project acquired
through civil works component, the accelerated transfer program of irrigation O&M which
has been initiated with the support of the Bank has promoted the concept of user participation
and cooperation throughout the country. It is expected that this leads to a sound approach to
be developed for future project implementations with active farmer participation.
Finally, DSI wishes to commend the World Bank staff, particularly Mr. Joma
Mohamadi, the task manager, for their positive approach, most valuable assistance and close
cooperation throughout the project implementation.
9



TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX C
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



TURKEY: Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1. Totd Project Cost (Without Rema ing Works of IAEE)
Page I
1988    |  1989  |  1990  |     1991    |   1992  1993         194           1995         Total
.......................................... .....................19 (US$'000) 
1. Civil Works:    DSI (Cat. lA):
- Adana 1:      Seyhan I                              1,871         2,554        2,957        -             -            -           -             -           7,382
- Izmir I:      Safaykoy                                77           223         1,974       6,130        2,388          -           -             -          10,792
Curuksu                                -             -            555       2,390           -           -            -            -           2,945
Ak-ay                                  168           138          183       3,546         3,676        1,962         -             -          9,673
Nazili                                 87            120        -                                                                 -             207
Sub-toad:                                           332           481        2,712       12,066        6,064        1,962         -             -          23,617
- Adana 1:      Seyban n                               -              -           -          4,944          668          100         -             -           5,712
Berdan                                257            468          352       2,403         1,041         400         124            -          5,045
Silifke                               _1             263          301         556           81                                                 1.292
Sub-toad:                                         348           731          653       7,903         1,790         500          124           -          12,049
- Izmnir U:     Mcancmn                                -              330         918        2,868         1,958        645          222           -           6,941
Tuygu                                  82            245        6_            181          -            -           -             -            1.117
Sub-total:                                        82            575         1,527       3,049        1,958         645         222            -           8,058
- Koayal:       Cul"n OEM IV-.VI)                      374            42           70          199         1,660       1,951         493           -           4,790
- Koayal :      Cum( AKcs VI)                          -              -           -            -            -          1,270         105         10,318       11,693
Uluinnk                                8S            101          -           152           -A l-4-                                            I:T73
Sub-totd:                                         85            101          -           152           -          2,290        S21         10,318        13,466
- Adan. m:      Ceyhan                                 734            897        1,395         73          1,496       2,813       2,415         7,663        17,486
Kuuikmyu                               -             -            116         -             -           531         847           163          1,657
Kahni nm mM                                        -92  13        161-                     39                                     -            1.644
Subtotal:                                         926                       1.672         734                                 3.262         1.824        20_7
Totd:                                           4,018          5,520       9,591       23,442        13,363      11,449       4,622        18,144        90,149
Deitiag:        Second ime like                       1,282         2,257        1,103        734           106          -           -             -           5,482
Third catgsory chenm                    3           3247 140 j                              -          -            -            -L.-6-M
Sub-total:                                      2,212          5544        2,583        1,736          106         -            -             -          12,181
TOTAL ODM):                                     6,23.         11,064       12,174      25,178       13,469       11,449       4,62         18,144       102U30



TURKEY: Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 1. Total Project Cost (Without Remaining Works of IAEE)
Page 2
1988          1989          1990    |     1991          192           1993           1994          1995           T
............................................ (US$'000) ..........................................
1. Civil Works:    GDRS (Cat. 1B):
Adana I                         -            2,200        3,859         5,201          1,448           -             -              -           12,708
Iznir I                         -              -           2,535        1,371           548            -             -              -            4,454
Adana 11                        -              -            247          1,630            29            200          407            -            2,513
Izmir f                         -              -             -            -             501          1,159          1,972           -            3,632
Konya I                         -              -             -            -            1,963         3,545         2,655            -            8,163
Adam                            -              -             -            -              -           2,078          1,921         4,315          8,314
Konya                                         _ -                                       _              _             _            4.081          4.081
Sub-toul (GDRS):                           -            2,200         6,641         8,202         4,489         6,982          6,955          8,396         43,865
2. Consulina Epgkineerina
DSI                             -              -           1,084        2,263          1,562         1,105           339           162           6,515
GDRS                            -              -           1.754         1.017         1.445          1.353          752            93           6.414
Sub-otal:                                  -              -           2,838         3,280         3,007          2,458         1,091           255          12,929
3. Reviewia Coltn:
DSI                             -              -             -            103            103            44            32            -              282
GDRS                            -              -              15          115            77            177            81            -              565
Sub-total:                                 -              -             115          218            IS0           221            113           -              847
DSI                             -              361           -            -              118           170           350            -              999
GDRS                            -              120            4           153                                        1 .-  174      -              451
Sub-4to1:                                  -              481            4            153           118           170            524           -             1,450
* EAuimua,L Books and Priodical:
DSI                             -              -             -           18,115           45            386             3           -            18,549
GDRS                            -               12          206            71             16           -              -             -30
Sub-total:                                 -               12           206        18,186           61            386             3            -            18,854
TOTAL PROJECT COSS:                             6,230          13,757       21,978        55,217        21,324         21,666        13,308        26,795         130,275
Table 1. Toal Project Cost (Remaining Works of IAEE)
1. 12dir Scheme:
DSI                                                                                     6,520        20,741        29,510        20,216         72,987
GDRS                                                                                     471          1,781         1,654           -           3,892
Aksu Scheme:
DSI                                                                                      831          2,277         1,230           -           4,338
ITOTAL COSS:                                                                                              7,828         24,799       28,394        20,216         81,217



TURKEY: Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 2. Exchaae Rate and Ddlators
Cmoaner Price bmde                        Dedat
Exduange Rate        Turkw               USA               Turk        I      USA
(TL/US$)     .......... (1990=100) .. ........ ..                   1995=1.0) .....l
1982                     186.8              4.1               73.9              471.7             1.59
1983                     282.1              5.4               76.3              35S.1             1.54
1954                     444.7              8.0               79.5              241.8             1.48
1985                     576.9             11.6               82.3              166.7             1.43
1986                     757.8             15.7               83.9              123.2             1.40
1987                   1,020.9             21.8               87.0               88.7             1.35
1988                   1,814.8             38.2               90.5              50.6              1.30
1989                   2,313.7             62.4               94.9              31.0              1.24
1990                   2,930.1            100.0              100.0               19.3             1.18
1991                   5,079.9            166.0              104.2               11.7             1.13
1992                   8,564.4            282.3              107.4               6.9              1.10
1993                  14,472.5            46S.a              110.6               4.1              1.07
1994                  38,726.0            967.0              113.4               2.0              1.03
1995                   43,0001             193.42            117.8'"             1.0              1.00
Soure: IMF International Financial Statistics (June 1995).
/ June 1995.
J June 1995 (mission estimate).



TURKEY: Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3. Area, Yid a hd Productim Comb by Crop ad by Regi_
ADANA                                    IMR                                     KONYA
Area  VI  Y      h    rodctIon Costs     Area                 Production Cosb     Are        Yeds    Produton Cost
(ha)     (tonsfl)      (TL'O0O0ha)       (ha)     (tom/ha)      (TL'000/ha)       (ha)     (tonmha)      (TL'000/ha)
1. WfRLeiPniect:
Cereas                         3,000        4.2           16,000        2,800        4.0           15,000        18,600       3.0           12,000
Sugarbeet                      2,600       50.0           30,000          -           -              -            4,600      35.0          21,000
Cotlon                         42,200       2.7           50,300        27,700       2.6           50,300          -           -             -
Legumes                        10,800       2.0           6,300           -           -                           5,300       2.0           6,300
Maize                          4,900        5.0           18,000        2,300        4.5           16,000                      -             -
Soybeantsesame/grndiauts       2,000        6.5           6,300         2,300        6.0           6,000          1,700       4.0            -
Vegetable                      3,800       24.0           97,000         2,800      22.0           90,000         1,000       10.0         60,000
Fodder crops                     -           -              -           2,500        12.0          5,400           700        12.0          6,000
Orchad                         2 500       25.0          120,000         5.600       16.0          70,000          70         12.0         40,000
Totl:           71,800                                   46,000                                   32,600
.Wdb lWoiet:
Cerels                         4,600        5.6           21,900        5,200        5.2           19,000        21,800       3.5           15,000
Sugrboet                       2,500       63.0           38,S00          -           -              -            3,900      50.0          30,000
Coton                         38,800        3.5           56,700        26,600       3.2           51,000          -           -             -
Legumes                        6,900        3.0           7,500           -           -              -            3,200       3.0           7,500
Maize                          7,200        7.5           23,000         1,800       7.5           23,000          -           -              -
Soybeau/seame/groundnats       1,800        8.0           11,400          700        8.0           11,400         1,300       6.5           9,000
Vegetableu                     4,600       28.0          116,600         2,800      28.0          116,600         1,000      25.0          100,000
Fodder crops                     -           -                           1,500       18.0          8,000           700        18.0          8,000
Orchard                        5.400       27.0          120,000        7.400       21.0           90,000          700        15.0         60,000
Total:          71,800                                   46,000                                   32,600



TURKEY: Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4. Fncial  d Economic Priem (1995)
Outp             0          Unit    | Fl i |Pri              Ecornic Prices
(TL'NOO)          (r '00D)
Crops:
Cereals (wheat)            ton               8,500              8,526
Cotton                     ton              27,600              19,072
Sugarbeet                  ton               1,5S0               1,010
Sesame                     ton              33,900              33,900
Sunflower                  ton              16,000              16,000
Vegetables                 ton              12,000              12,000
Fodder crops               ton               8,300              3,300
Maize                      ton               6,560              6,500
Beans                      ton              27,500              27,500
Paddy                      ton              14,720              14,429
Soybean                    ton              14,200              14,255
Melon                      ton              10,000              10,000
CrWOrcadc
Apples                     ton              9,400               9,400
Citrus                     ton               7,500              8,312



TURKEY: Drange and On-Farm Development Project
Appeadix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table S. Project Investment Costs for Economic Analysis
R   1988        1989       1990   I   1991   j   1992           M 1993    1994   I   1995
Regions                                                       |                      (TL million) .
1. ADANA: ...-
- Civil works                                4,908       13,051     22,230      51,918      32,082     78,870     154,819      522,780
- Other investnent costs                      -505                  2970        43.906       9.706     12.18       21.075       2.280
Total in current terms                       4,908      13,556      25,200      95,824      41,788     91,050     175,894      525,060
Total in constant 1995 prices              248,344     420,236    486,360    1,121,140     288,337    373,305     351,788      525,060
II. IZMIR:
- Civil works                                  840       2,382      17,200      74,788      65,966     40,192      76,510        -
- Other investment costs                      -            316       1.856      27.441       6.066      7.613      13.172        1425
Total in current terms"                        840       2,698      19,056      102,229     72,032     47,805      89,682        1,425
Total in constant 1995 pricesV              42,504      83,638     367,780    1,196,079    497,021    196,001     179,364        1,425
m. KONYA:
- Civil works                                  772         94         193        1,011      27,940     79,141     204,322      529,674
- Other investment costs                                   232       1361       20.123       4.449      5.583      9.660         1045
Total in current terms"                        772         326       1,554      21,134      32,389     84,724     213,982      530,719
Total in constant 1995 pricese              39,063       10,106     29,992     247,268     223,484    347,368     427,964      530,719
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (in constant 1995 TL):  329,911        513,980    884,132    2,564,487   1,008,842    916,674    959,116    1,057,204



TURKEY: Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6. Financial Results
ADANA                               IZNMR                              KONYA
Without      With   |ncremental   Without        With   Increnental   Without        With   I ncremental
Project  | Project                  Project     Project                 Project     Project
. .................................. .L million)  ..................................
Farm Gross Value of Production'      138.4       191.1       52.7        145.1       199.9       54.8         79.1       115.5       36.4
Farm Operating Costs                  86.0       106.4       20.4         93.1       109.1       16.0         27.3        38.5       11.2
Farm Net Value of Production          52.4        84.7       32.3         52.0        90.8       38.8         51.8        77.0       25.2
/ Based on an average farm size of 2 ha.



TURKEY: Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7. Economic Rate of Retum (TL billion)
1       2        3        4        5        6        7        9        9   10-20
ADANA
Inveatment conto               24o.0   420.0   486.0  1121.0   299.o   373.0   352.0   525.0   191.0   161.0
Net Increm. Benefitn               -    59.0   115.0   230.0   345.0   460.0   575.0   905.0  1035.0  1156.0
Net Balance                   -24Q.0  -362.0  -371.0  -891.0    57.0    87.0   223.0   280.0   954.0   975.0
IZMIR
Inveetment coots                43.0    B4.0   368.0  1196.0   497.0   196.0   179.0   117.0   111.0   117.0
Net Increm. Benefits               -    45.0    89.0   179.0   269.0   357.0   447.0   625.0   804.0   993.0
Balance                        -43.0   -39.0  -279.0 -1017.0  -229.0   161.0   268.0   508.0   687.0   776.0
KOIIYA
Inveatment cocto                39.0    10.0    30.0   247.0   223.0   347.0   429.0   530.0    92.0    82.0
Net increm. Benefitn               -        -        -    92.0   123.0   164.0   205.0   237.0   370.0   411.0
Balance                        -39.0   -10.0   -30.0  -165.0  -100.0  -193.0  -223.0  -243.0   283.0   329.0
Total net incr. Benefitn   -330.0  -411.0  -690.0 -2073.0  -272.0    65.0  GR9.0   545.0  1329.0  2030.0
Total Project
Total net increm. Benefie          -   103.0   204.0   491.0   736.o   991.0  1227.0  1717.0  2209.0  2460.0
Total Inventment Contn         330.0   514.0   SR4.0  2564.0  1ooS.o   916.0   9s9.0  1172.0   390.0   390.0
Total Balatice                -130.0  -411.0  -630.0 -2073.0  -272.0    65.0   269.0   545.0  1329.0  2030.0
ERR:        Adana:                          20.7%
Izmir:                          24.0X
Konya:                        . 18.8%
Project as  a whole:' 21.6%



TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX D
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
Ref: B.02.1.HM.O.DEI.01.02/114 -,                       Date:.
Mr. Ricardo Halperin                                        27 FECRiUARI 1925
Acting Division Chief, EC1AE
The World Bank, 1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 2640J
U.S.A.
Re:  - IAEE Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU)
- Drainage and On-farm Development Project (Loan 2663-TU),
Implementation Completion Reports
- Your letters dated Feb. 8, 1996 and Feb. 15, 1996
Dear Mr. Halperin:
We are pleased to see that, especially during the last two years of the Drainage
and On-farm Development Project which also included remaining works of IAEE
Irrigation Project, there have been fruitful efforts on review, design and adoption of
methods on farmer participation in construction and operation of irrigation schemes that
have traditionally been planned, constructed, operated and maintained by the
Government agencies.
In some regions of Turkey, it has been very exciting to discover farmers'
understanding about new approaches that will lead to better use of soil and water
together with more efficient operation and timely maintenance of the schemes and their
willingness to cooperate with Government agencies at reasonable terms, depending on
income levels and crop patterns.
The implementation of DSI's plan for transfer of the Government's irrigation
schemes to the water user associations has been very successful and the
implementation rate has exceeded by far the provisioned pace.
GDRS has also made visible progress in revealing farmer participation
opportunities but has not been able to implement the plans since they were not mature
enough regarding terms and conditions of the suggested approaches.
The fact that the subproject activity plans could have been completed years after
the loan became effective and that GDRS had to convince farmers who did not know
much about the benefits of irrigation and had to deal with many small and inexperienced
contractors for on-farm works, have been the major factors causing long delays in
constructions and slow disbursement.
However, the understanding created about the need for different approaches in
planning and operation of costly irrigation investments of the Government and the
experience gained by on-farm works contractors have been the great benefits derived
from the Project.



Also, it was realized that a project loan in agriculture sector should take into
account the seasonality of field work, especially if it includes on-farm works or field
research. Because construction periods are from May to November, it is not desirable
for a loan to close at the end of June, in which case no contracts can be signed for on-
farm works during the last year of a project. Moreover, such delays occurred in the
previous years when the loan was extended since there were uncertainties about the
extension decisions until several months before closing date.
Although there have been on-farm development works that remained incomplete
due to late start up and the problems encountered, the project can be regarded as one
that attained the goal of providing more than physical works through the understanding
and coordination level reached between the implementing agencies and the farmers and
the knowledge and vision acquired by staff and the farmers through training programs.
We are also glad to observe that DSI staff has received a number of invitations
from foreign countries to participate in symposiums abroad and to make presentations
about DSI's achievements. There have also been visits to Turkey by foreign country
authorities to examine the irrigation schemes and transfers in Turkey.
I would like to take this opportunity to state that it deserves mentioning that the
Bank's efforts during the past two years have helped tremendously in bringing about
a real change to the approaches to irrigation investments especially through sharing
practices and experiences with those of other countries and the World Bank experts.
Please find attached the comments on the project experiences of The State
Hydraulic Works (DSI) and The General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS), the two
implementing agencies of both the IAEE Irrigation Project and the Drainage and On-
farm Development Project.
Hoping that the positive developments in this sector can be further improved and
thanking you for the excellent cooperation and coordination I remain,
Sincerely yours,
H. Ersen EKREN
Deputy Director Ge.tera1






TURKEY
DRAINAGE AND ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX E
MAP






TURKEY
Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
LOCATION OF FIRST TIME SLICE SCHEMES
BULGARIA Jc
j V Edirne                                                          <                                                           $ GEORGIA
GREECE*- !                                                                                                                                   < \)  4  - AZERBAIJA
GREECE
CGi   N   C       /      K /                                               <                       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARM ENIA
X        'D~~~alikesir                                                                                           Erzurum  _  Z<,'src 
*Ercis
Jz      <   \      ~~~~~Kaysei XA                                                    a        - 
Aydin 3 4 56                   Aksehir                                                            ?
MendereS A.   -'  -  ~Kon,ya.R
-R A                                                                 Dr    1   Kony, y   :0  4   /  :/D liybabir   3   A.
U~~~~~~~~~~~~E 
7                        14                                                              -
Antalya. &Akeu      13       15     ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    /~-I R A 0
10 Mri ~
U                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIRST TIME SLICE SCHEMES
11                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 MENEMEN
12                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~2 TURGUTLU
3 AKCAY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC                 4 NAZILI
A1ad,tifcrr. anarjri  SqM5 SARAYKOY
6 CURUKSU
7 KOS VI
8 KOS IV &VIl
9 ULUIRMAK
10 SILIFKE
11 BERDAN
12 SEYHAN I & 11
13 CEYHAN
100     200      N                                                                                                  14 KESIKSUYU
,= 0       100      200 km   |/15 KAHRAMANMARAS









IMAGING
Report No:        15528
Type: ICR



