Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23317-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$160 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
NATIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
December 20, 2001
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 2000)
Currency Unit = RMB
RMB 1.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = RMB 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8th FYP              Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-1995)                MEPIED              Mechanical and Electrical Products Import and
9th FYP              Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000)                                     Export Department
10th FYP             Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005)                MOF                  Ministry of Finance
ADB                  Asian Development Bank                           MOP                 Memorandum of the President
BAO-LAN              Baoji-Lanzhou railway line                       MOR                 Ministry of Railways
BAO-ZHONG            Baoji-Zhongwei railway line                      NAO                 National Audit Office
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy                      NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
CAES                 China Academy for Environmental Sciences         NRL                 National Railway Loan
CMC                  Construction Management Center                   JBIC                Japanese Bank of Intemational Coqoepation
CR                   Chinese Railways                                 OED                 Operations Evaluation Department
DO                   Development Objective                            PHRD                Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
EA                   Environmental Assessment
EAP                  Environmental Action Plan                        pkms                Passenger Kilometers
EIA                  Environmental Impact Assessment                  PRC                 People's Republic of China
EIRR                 Economic Intemal Rate of Retum                   PTE                 Passenger Transport Enterprise
EPB                  Environmental Protection Bureau                  PSO                 Public Service Obligation
FCTIC                Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center      RAP                 Resettlement Action Plan
FIRR                 Financial Intemal Rate ofRetum                   RIS                 Railway Information System
FRSDI                First Railway Survey and Design Institute (in    SCADA               Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
Lanzhou)                                        SDPC                State Development Platning Commission
FTE                  Freight Transport Enterprise                     SEPA                State Environmental Protection Agency
FY                   Fiscal Year                                      SIL                 Specific Investment Loan
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product                           SOE                 State-Owned Enterprises
GOC                  Govemment of China                               TA                  Technical Assistance
ICB                  Intemational Competitive Bidding                 tkms                Tons kilometers
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report                 TMIS                Transportation Management Infonnation System
IP                   Implementation Progress                          TOR                 Terms of Reference
JBIC                 Japan Bank for Intemational Cooperation
KfW                  Kreditanstallt for Wiederaufbau                  VSCL                Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan
KM                   Kilometer                                        WBOC                World Bank Office, China
KRA                  Kunming Railway Administration
LRAB                 Lanzhou Railway Administration Bureau            ZRAB                Zhengzhou Railway Administration Bureau
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassumn, EAPVP
Country Director:   Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:         Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
Task Team  Leader/Task Manager:                  Richard G. Scurfield, Transport Sector Leader,
TUDTR



CHINA
NATIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        6
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   I1
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            12
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Environmental                                                                       14
6. Social                                                                              17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  18



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        18
2. Critical risks                                                                        19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        19
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                               20
2. Other                                                                                 20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                             21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                            21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                             22
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                       25
Annex 2a: Terms of Reference for a Study on Research on the Cost Model of the
Passenger Transportation Company of Kunming Railway Bureau
Annex 2b: Termns of Reference for a Study on Establishing Railway Passenger
Transportation Enterprises (PTEs) in Railway Bureaus with Sub-bureaus
Annex 2c: Terms of Reference for a Study on Establishing a Wagon Ownership
Enterprise
Annex 2d: Terms of Reference for Tools Integration Work
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                            37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                      39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities                              48
A: Financial Analysis of the Bao-Lan Line
B: Financial Analysis of Transport Operation of Ministry of Railways (MOR)
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                          57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                        65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                      66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                     68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                               73
Annex 11: The Reform Program for the Ministry of Railways (MOR) of China                    75
Annex 12: The Reform Process in the Chinese Railways                                        80
Annex 13: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary                                  86
Annex 14: Resettlement Impacts and Resettlement Action Plan Summary                         99
Annex 15: Technical Analysis                                                               107
Annex 16: Financial Management Assessment                                                  110



MAP(S)
IBRD 31728 China Railway System, December 2001
IBRD 31717 China.Baoji to Lanzhou Rail Line, December 2001






CHINA
National Railway Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASTR
Date: December 20, 2001                          Team Leader: Richard G. Scurfield
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang            Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: P058846                              Sector(s): TW - Railways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[Xl Loan    [ ] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$ 160.0 million
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                            Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                    1142.24          0.00        1142.24
IBRD                                                          0.00          160.00        160.00
Total:                                                      1142.24         160.00       1302.24
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS
Address: Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center (FCTIC)
Ministry of Railways, 10 Fuxing Road, Beijing, China
Contact Person: Mr. Yang Haichang, Director, FCTIC
Tel: 86-10-63248406           Fax: 86-10-63241845            Email: FCTICZH@ns.chinamor.cn.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual   50.00       50.00      35.00     20.00       5.00
Cumulative    50.00    100.00     135.00     155.00    160.00
Project implementation period: March 2000-June 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 05/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD F- R.P  U,. AXA



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This project has two objectives:
(a) to increase the capacity of the railway network between eastern and western China; and
(b) to support the reform program of China Railways.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators have been agreed with the Ministry of Railways (MOR), as follows:
Objective         .            Component                        Indicators
Increase capacity of the railway  o Double tracking and upgrading   o Length of completed double
network between eastern and western  of an existing electrified railway    tracked and electrified line
China.                             line between Baoji and         o Average travel time from
Lanzhou.                        Lanzhou to Baoji and Baoji to
Lanzhou
o Usage of the line (tonne
kilometer equivalent)
Support the reform of China       o To create Passenger Transport   o Railway reform plan is approved
Railways                            Enterprises (PTE) in all       by State Council.
Administrations, some as    o Pilot PTEs are established and
independent entities and some  allowed to operate with
as accounting entities         commercial independence.
o To regroup the PTEs into     o Creation of a wagon ownership
market defined enterprises     company
o To establish wagon ownership   o Plans are prepared and
company                        implemented for the
o Further development of tools for   development of the integrated
the management of commercial    planning and costing tool.
railway operations
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107    Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
China: Country Assistance Strategy
Full Report, 16321-CHA, February 27, 1997
Progress Report, R98-107, May 6, 1998
This project responds to two CAS priorities, to: (i) reduce infrastructure bottlenecks, and (ii) assist
government-owned enterprises as they make the transition from a command to a market-based economy.
- 2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government of China (GOC) has commnitted itself to the reform of all State-Owned Enterprises
(SOEs), of which China Railways is one of the largest. In the Outline of the Tenth Five-Years Plan For
National Economic And Social Development (Approved by the Fourth Session of the Ninth National
People's Congress on March 15, 2001), it is stated that the purpose of the government is
To accelerate the reform of transportation management system and operation mechanisms with the core focus
on the separation of the governtment functions and the enterprise functions, railways will "separate
infrastructure from transport operations."
MOR submitted a general plan for reform to the State Council in early 2000. This plan is not yet generally
available because the details are still under discussion within the government. The challenges faced by
MOR are not unlike those that other governments have had to address, as they have sought to reform their
railway systems: how to clarify the respective functions of government and enterprise, focus on the market,
create and manage competition, and define and reshape private/public boundaries. However, in China, five
factors make this reform particularly challenging:
First, China's size and its scarcity of infrastructure mean that rail service is a critical part of both the freight
and passenger transport networks-56 percent of freight (measured in ton-km) and 37 percent of passengers
(measured in passenger-km) go by rail. Given the importance of rail service, reform must be carried out with
great care to reduce the risk of disrupting service.
Second, Chinese railways still face capacity shortages and demand surpluses, so the need for expansion will
remain important and regulatory issues will remain significant. Chinese railways generate the highest traffic
density in the world, and the need for continuing expansion is well documented.
Third, Government looks to rail revenues to pay for a significant portion of capital outlays. However, because
some new lines are justified by social and/or strategic considerations rather than by commercial needs, public
funding may be required.
Fourth, Railways face increasing competition. Despite the fact that China's railways still carry a major share
of freight and passenger traffic, other transport modes have made inroads in the transportation market.
Railways have lost approximately I percent of market share every year since 1978. Road traffic for both freight
and passengers is increasing very rapidly as the network of inter-city expressways expands, with about 15,000
km already completed and 35,000 km due to be completed by 2010. MOR faces a particular challenge in the
freight sector, where an old-style production orientation has limited rail's ability to compete for higher-value
traffic. Moreover, the lack of demand-sensitive pricing deprives MOR of the eamings needed to invest in
better service capability. If MOR cannot adapt rapidly to competitive conditions, rail's market share will
continue to erode for all but bulk cargo.
Fifth, The existing technical and managerial standards are below Westem levels, with much of MOR's
technology comparable to 1960s and 1970s practices in the West. The restructuring effort will have to include
the upgrade of technical and managerial capabilities and information as well as commercial techniques.
Fortunately, the establishment of the Transportation Management Information System (TMIS), financed under
the Railway VI and Railway VII projects is being completed just as it becomes critically important in
supporting improved management and system analyses.
In a similar vein, as OED commented in its report Transport in China-an Evaluation of World Bank
Assistance (January 11, 1999):
Despite major capacity expansion and changes in market structure, the railways are still unable to meet the
demands of a liberalized and decentralized economy. Many bottlenecks remain in the economically active
coastal areas, and access to the railway system in the inner provinces is sparse. Capacity alone will not
address these problems. Accelerating the institutional restructuring and policy development, which
- 3 -



simultaneously increases system capacity and inter-model transport facilities and improves customer service,
will be required to help China's railways compete with other modes of transport.
The general approach to railway reform in China is expected to be based on two principles-the
separation of govermment functions from enterprise functions, and the separation of infrastructure from
operations. Change is likely to proceed in a number of stages:
1 . Separation of railway operations from the other businesses that were under the tutelage of MOR
(now substantially completed).
2. Establishment of PTEs in four minor administrations (i.e., administrations with no
sub-administrations).
3. Extension of the passenger enterprise separation, at least on an accounting basis, to the other 10
administrations of MOR and separation of the accounting of infrastructure from the accounting of
freight.
4. Regrouping of the PTEs in accord with criteria (yet to be agreed) to create between three and five
viable enterprises.
5. Regrouping of Freight Transport Enterprises (FTEs) in accordance with the lessons learned from
separating the accounting of infrastructure and the establishment of the passenger enterprises. It is
not clear how many FTEs will be created-probably three to six.
6. Full separation of infrastructure from operations (known in China as up/down separation). This is
likely to be accompanied by a regrouping of infrastructure entities into a limited number of
asset-management companies.
In addition, at some stage, government must clearly divorce itselffrom operations. Details on the reform
process in the railways in China are included in Annexes 11 and 12.
Longer-term Implications of Diversified Ownership of Railway Services
The longer-term implications of diversified ownership of railway services are numerous. Some of the more
likely implications are described below.
Spin-off of non-rail activities. MOR has spun off a number of manufacturing activities (manufacturing of
locomotives, wagons, coaches, signals and other components) that had previously operated under the aegis
of MOR. Although these mostly have been established as SOEs, they all will be privatized eventually
because none of them has a critical policy function.
Contracting-out of services. Many rail activities can be contracted more economically than they can be
done in-house. Potential services to be contracted out include major activities such as track, locomotive,
wagon and coach maintenance, as well as smaller activities such as station and office cleaning.
Concessioning or Franchising. Concessioning and franchising will emerge as altematives for a number of
the operating functions on the separated infrastructure. For example, the potential system-wide freight (or
passenger) companies could be operated as concessions. If the FTEs are initially set up to operate over
regional infrastructure agencies, they could take the form of franchises with limited tenitories (as in the
U.K.), and the stock in the companies holding the franchises could eventually be sold in part or in whole.
Private Ownership and or Management. At least some private operators will be allowed under licenses
as an altemative to franchising. In addition, railway companies worldwide express growing interest in
leasing assets from the private sector, with and without value-added services such as maintenance. The rail
- 4 -



system in China is an enormous potential market. Two particularly promising and immediate opportunities
will arise with the creation of the system-wide container company and a company that will own freight
wagons and lease them for rail use. Both of these companies reflect MOR's growing sophistication and
determination to look outside the public sector for capital. They also illustrate the difficulty in creating such
institutions within the existing framework of MOR.
China already has a railway company that is partly privately held. The Guangshen Railway Company
operates both freight and high-speed passenger services between Guangzhou and Shenzhen. There are also
many smaller railways that are joint ventures between MOR and various provincial or local government
agencies. Several of these railways have attempted to sell shares to private investors, and it is likely that
either MOR or the local agencies will be even more interested in doing so in the future.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Since 1992, the World Bank and China have maintained a dialogue on railway reform. A number of major
seminars were organized between 1992 and 1997 to discuss these issues. At first, it is fair to say, the
initiative for these exchanges often came from the Bank. However, as China's reforms have deepened, the
dynamics of the relationship have changed, and MOR now asks to tap the Bank's expertise in this area. In
2000, the Bank's railway advisor visited China for a two-day exchange of views with the Minister and
senior members of his management team on specific aspects of railway reform. A similar meeting was held
in May 2001, and others are planned. An important objective of the proposed project is to maintain and
reinforce this dialogue.
The proposed National Railways project addresses a number of these issues:
*  Improving the rail connection between eastem and central China and the northwest provinces
*   Strengthening the organization of the PTE in the Kwunming Railway Administration
*   Assisting in the design of PTEs in all administrations
*   Assisting in the design of a company to own and lease freight wagons
*  Developing an integrated planning and informnation tool that will bring together the network
planning and costing tools developed under previous projects.
The establishment of the PTEs will demonstrate the feasibility of separating the accounts of various
railway and non-railway functions. This separation of accounting by function, in turn, will permit more
informed decision-making about pricing so as to reflect the true costs of railway passenger services.
Accurate pricing should then contribute to the viability of the entity. The creation of a wagon company and
a container company, along with the FTEs, is the next step once the PTEs operate effectively. The
Bank-supported integrated infornation and planning tools will be required if the restructured railway
system is to continue to operate efficiently and effectively in the market economy.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
This project will improve access to transport, strengthen econornic growth and reduce poverty in the
northwest of China while supporting efforts to reform China Railways. There are two parts to the project:
-5 -



*   Expansion of railway capacity. This project will finance the expansion of a key east-west railway
corridor between Baoji and Lanzhou (Bao-Lan line) by double-tracking and upgrading the existing
line.
*   Assistance with the reform of China Railways. MOR will use technical assistance provided
under the project to carry out the following:
-- A study to develop a cost model for the PTE in Kunning
-- A study to establish pilot railway PTEs in larger administrations with sub-bureaus
-- A study to establish a wagon-ownership enterprise
-- The development of an integrated planning and costing tool to facilitate the establishment of
line-of-business operations.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector         costs   :   of    financing    Bank-
:____________________________    _______________  (US$M)    Total      (US$M)   financing
Component 1. Double-tracking and    Railways          1218.71       93.6    156.29       97.7
upgrading of the Bao-Lan line
Component 2. Technical Assistance to Railways            2.11        0.2       2.11        1.3
support China Railways Reform
Total Project Costs                  1220.82      93.7    158.40        99.0
Interest during construction                  79.82        6.1      0.00        0.0
Front-end fee                      1.60       0.1       1.60        1.0
Total Financing Required                    1302.24     100.0    160.00       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Since 1992, the Bank has supported China's efforts to design and implement a reform program for China
Railways. A primary objective of this project is to promote the continuation of this dialogue. To ensure the
pursuit of the reform dialogue, MOR and the Bank have agreed to hold an annual forum throughout the life
of the project to discuss reform issues.
Project funds will also be used to conduct reform studies. Two studies will support the creation of
PTEs-the first to help develop a cost model for the PTE in Kunnming, and the second to support the
creation of pilot railway PTEs in larger administrations with sub-bureaus. The creation of PTEs is a
necessary step for MOR to reach its ultimate goal of separating infrastructure and operations. These
studies will address fundamental issues on how to reach this final goal, including the following:
*   The level and structure of infrastructure access charges
*  The role of intra-rail competition in freight and passenger services, the methods to achieve the
desired competition, and the corresponding need for regulation
*   The degree to which future Chinese rail services will be commercialized (and thus supported by
users rather than the Government)
*   The eventual role of the private sector in providing services.
Policy choices will have to be refined and so that a plan can be developed which will allow MOR to
proceed from broad principles to the definition of a detailed implementation plan.
- 6 -



The third study will help establish a wagon-ownership enterprise in China. Establishing this enterprise is an
interim step in the process of reorganizing China Railways freight services. A subsequent step is likely to
involve the creation of FTEs.
The fourth study will study the feasibility of developing an integrated planning and costing tool to facilitate
the establishment of line-of-business operations. MOR acknowledges the importance of developing an
enhanced model for planning and managing a market-based railway system. All the individual components
of this model-TMIS, Railway Information System (RIS) network analysis modes, and a route-costing
model-were all developed under earlier railway projects.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits from physical investments. With respect to freight traffic, the immediate benefits of the physical
investments will consist of the induced value-added attributable to the enhanced output and distribution of
agricultural, mineral, and manufactured goods traversing the railways. The benefits with respect to
passenger traffic will consist of higher income levels resulting from both the incremental personal travel
and the reduction in travel time made possible by the project. The target populations include the industries
and populations of the affected areas in the northwestern region of China.
Benefits from institutional reform component. The establishment of the PTE will demonstrate the
feasibility of developing separate accounts for railway and non-railway functions. This separation will
permit more informed decisions on pricing to the true costs of railway passenger service. The target
population consists of MOR managers involved in the reform and restructuring of the railways. Moreover,
to the extent that the creation of PTEs focuses regional managers' attention on the needs of passengers,
personal travelers in the region will also benefit.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. Upgrading of the Bao-Lan line began in March 2001 and is expected to continue
until March 2004. Some limited site-clearance activities have taken place, and certain civil engineering
works on the line between Lanzhou and Tianshui were carried out in 2000. The policy reform studies will
be implemented between September 2001 and June 2005. These time estimates are based on the draft
implementation, procurement, and disbursement schedules for each component received by the Bank on
June 19, 2001.
Executing Agency. The Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center (FCTIC) in MOR has overall
responsibility for project preparation, implementation coordination, and oversight. To fulfill this role, the
FCTIC must work closely with the railway survey and design institutes, the railway construction bureaus,
the tendering companies and several departments in MOR headquarters in Beijing and with the railway
administrations.
Finance. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will on-lend World Bank funds to MOR on the same conditions
as the Bank loan to the MOF. The loan type will be a LIBOR-based floating rate single currency (US$)
loan (VSCL), with 20-year maturity, including a 5-year grace period. The 1 percent front-end fee will be
financed from the loan.
Financial management. Management of project finances will be the responsibility of the Finance Division
of FCTIC and the finance divisions of the Zhengzhou and Lanzhou Railway Administration Bureaus.
Specifically, FCTIC will be responsible for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling the special account to
be set up for the project, preparing withdrawal applications and payment requests. While the Finance
- 7 -



Department of MOR will oversee the counterpart fund arrangements for the project, the financial divisions
of the two railway administrations will be responsible for collecting supporting documents, monitoring
contract payments, maintaining accounts of project activities, and preparing project financial statements.
Disbursements. The project funds will be disbursed using traditional (not PMR-based) techniques, in
accordance with an agreement between the Bank and the MOF.
Audit Arrangements. As with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO) (established in 1983 as the State Audit
Administration) will have overall responsibility for auditing the accounts of the project. The CNAO
resident offices in Zhengzhou and Lanzhou will conduct the actual audits. The Bank currently accepts
audits performed under the supervision and responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the financial statements of
the project and MOR, and the audit of the special account and statements of expenditures will be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of each financial year.
Resettlement and environmental supervision and monitoring. As described in more detail in Section
E5, the Zhengzhou and Lanzhou Railway Administration Bureaus will be responsible for the
implementation of the environmental plans and policies. Oversight will be provided by the Shaanxi and
Gansu Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) and the State Environmental Protection Administration
(SEPA).
MOR has appointed a resettlement coordinator, and the local land administration bureaus in Shaanxi and
Gansu Provinces will be responsible for implementing the agreed resettlement plans. Systematic monitoring
of the implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will be undertaken by a qualified institute
independent of the project owner and provincial implementing agencies.
Progress reporting and planning. FCTIC will be responsible for preparing quarterly and annual progress
reports, including annual implementation plans. The quarterly reports will focus on physical and financial
progress, outline implementation problems for all components, and suggest corrective actions. The annual
progress report will be used to review the progress achieved in the preceding year, update the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), and draw up the implementation plan for the following year.
World Bank supervision arrangements. The project has been prepared by a team based in both Beijing
and Washington and led from Beijing, and a similar team will supervise the project. The team will include
specialists to supervise the financial management systems, procurement activities, disbursement, and the
implementation of resettlement and environmental plans. The supervision plan includes a project launch
workshop and two formal supervision missions every year, including an annual review mission. A mid-term
review of the project is scheduled for the second half of 2004.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Why the Northwestern Region? The Bao-Lan line connects the northwest provinces of Xinjiang
Autonomous Region, Qinghai and Gansu with east and central China. These provinces are included in the
GOC's recently announced westem development strategy. As part of this strategy, considerable resources
will be dedicated to building and upgrading transport infrastructure in the westem regions and to connect
these regions to the east and central regions. The provinces are rich in energy and mineral resources,
including coal, petroleum, iron ore, salt, limestone, copper, bauxite, and zinc and additional investments
- 8 -



will provide for the processing of these minerals within the western region. However, the primary markets
for these commodities are the distant factories and processing plants of central and eastem China, a hauling
distance of 2,200-2,800 km. Given the bulk nature of these products and the considerable shipping
distances involved, the railways represent the most practical mode of transport. Haulage by truck is not a
cost-effective option and cannot be regarded as a substitute for rail transport of the types of freight
concerned. No navigable inland waterways are available, and the pipeline that will link Lanzhou and
Chengdu is not scheduled to enter service until 2015, and that will be restricted to one commodity
group-refined liquid petroleum products. The most common passenger itineraries-Urumqi-Chengdu and
Lanzhou-Guangzhou-are also quite lengthy, and so a substantial part of the passenger market will also be
served by the railway.
Why the Bao-Lan Line? MOR considered one other option to handle the traffic to and from the
Northwest. This option would have involved double-tracking the existing line from Baoji north to Zhongwei
(from this point, another route connects Zhongwei with Wuwei and points west-see the map at the end of
this document). MOR has studied and compared the two options in depth, beginning with a study in 1990.
Capacity and operational considerations made the double-tracking of the Bao-Lan the better near-term
choice. The route via Zhongwei is operating at just under 90 percent of capacity, whereas the line via
Lanzhou is already at capacity. Moreover, depending on the precise origin and destinations involved, the
travel distances through Zhongwei are as much as 49 percent greater.
Why the chosen alignment? Because the project proposes the double-tracking of an existing line, the
choice of the alignmnent was limited. However, when choosing the precise alignment, MOR took into
account the difficult topography of the existing line (the Weihe River Plain, Qinling Mountains, Qi-Lu-He
Mountains, and the Longzhong Loess plateau), three major faults in the rock, (varying in length from 10
km to 100 kn) and unfavorable geological conditions in nine zones along the existing line (e.g., areas prone
to landslides, faulted rock formations, rock flows, fast-moving streams). MOR concluded that building
tunnels and high slopes in the fault zones should be avoided and that bridges should not be built over
streams in unfavorable geological zones. Also, MOR decided that the new line should be built to
accommodate higher train speeds. As a result, the aligmnent of the second line does not follow exactly the
old alignment for a significant portion of its length. This alignrment includes a significantly larger number of
bridges and tunnels. The second line will have 230 bridges (with a linear length of 54.6 km, or 10 percent
of the new second line) as compared to 98 such bridges (with a linear length of 15.5 km) on the existing
line. It has 74 new or enlarged tunnels with a linear length of 72.7 kmn (13.6 percent of the new second line).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Component 1. Address railway capacity -Railways I-included         S             S
bottlenecks through construction,  components 1, 2 (completed)
double-tracking, electrification, and the -Railways II-included
introduction of modern technology  components 1, 2 (completed)
-Railways Im-included
Component 2. Technical assistance    components 1, 2 (completed)
/training, transfer of new technology   -Inner Mongolia Railway
-9-



concepts to improve efficiency of  Project-included components
railway operations and railways'  1, 2 (completed)
financial condition              -Railways IV-included
Component 3. Institutional       components 1, 2 (completed)
strengthening and training in railway   -Railways V-included
reform issues and introduction of tools components 1, 2 (completed)
needed for making decisions in a
socialist market economy
-Railways VI-included            S             S
components 1, 2 ,3 (ongoing)
-Railways VII-included           S             S
components 1, 2, 3 (ongoing)
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank (ADB)     -Hefei-Jiujiang Railway
(completed)
-Jing-Jiu Railway Technical
Enhancement (completed)
-Daxian-Wanxian Railway
(ongoing)
-Shenmu-Yanan Railway
(ongoing)
-Guizhou-Shubai Railway
(ongoing)
-Xian-Hefei Railway (ongoing)
-Ganzhou-Longyan Railway
(planned)
Japan Bank for International     -Nanning-Kunming Railway
Cooperation (JBIC)               (completed)
--Hengyang-Shangqiu Railways
(completed)
--Xi'an-Ankang Railway
Construction Project (III)
(ongoing)
--Guiyang-Loudi Railway
Construction Project (II)
(ongoing)
--Chongqing-Huaihua
Construction Project (planned)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 1 0 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The client and the Bank have drawn valuable lessons from preparing and implementing past railway
projects, which have been taken into account in the preparation of this railway project.
First, a project should not include components to which the client is not fully committed. This can lead to
the restructuring of the project, as was the case with Railways VII.
Second, including too many components in a project (as was the case in Railways VI and VII) affects
implementation negatively because both the client and the Bank have limited resources for supervision and
implementation.
Third, when designing and implementing project components, the project office, railway staff in MOR in
Beijing, and railway staff in the administrations need to work with each other very closely to implement the
project efficiently.
Fourth, the policy dialogue on reform and restructuring of the railways cannot include only staff in the
project office. Senior MOR staff with decision-making responsibilities need to participate in these
discussions. (Substantive discussions on reform have been held during project preparation with the
minister, vice ministers and other senior management staff).
Fifth, client commnitment to Bank guidelines and procedures is essential for project preparation and
implementation. Problems have arisen with regard to resettlement and environmental issues in Railways VI
and VII because the client originally was not committed to following Bank guidelines and procedures.
However, MOR has recently shown its commitment by appointing a resettlement coordinator in MOR
headquarters in Beijing.
Sixth, the project office needs to provide the Bank with fuller and more complete quarterly and annual
reports.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
All the responsible agencies within GOC, including the State Development Planning Commission (SDPC),
MOF and MOR lend very strong support to this project. What is more, the individual components in this
project enjoy the committed ownership of all levels in MOR. All the necessary project documents are
available, and preparations for the procurement of goods to be financed by the project are well advanced.
As noted previously, implementation of the non-Bank-financed civil works for the project has already
started.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The continuation of the Bank's dialogue with MOR on reform will undoubtedly be the major benefit of the
project. We have extensive knowledge of the railway-reform activities in other countries that we can
leverage for China's benefit. MOR knows that any mistakes could be very costly given the strategic
importance of the railway. We can also assist MOR in developing analytical tools and information systems
so that China's reform process can be planned and managed as effectively as possible. This also an
investment project. In this regard, the Bank will provide financing to help remove an important bottleneck
in the national railway system and increase traffic capacity between the eastem and westem regions of
China.



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=USS2373 mnillion; ERR = 22.9 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The quantifiable benefits of the project consist of the value added by the induced freight and passenger
traffic that will be made possible by the enhanced capacity of the Bao-Lan line. Along with the direct costs
of the project itself, complementary costs include:
*   The investment outlays for the additional railway equipment required to handle the incremental
traffic flows made possible by the project
*   The project costs of electrifying and double-tracking the railway line between Lanzhou and Wuwei
(to avoid a bottleneck immediately to the northwest of the project route)
*   The capital outlays associated with providing new production capacity for the incremental freight
traffic that will be transported over the route because of the project
*   The capital cost of generating the electric power necessitated by the addition of a second track
*   The further operating expenses required for catenary maintenance.
The economic net present value (ENPV), based on a 12-percent discount rate, is estimated at Yuan 19.7
billion. Evaluation results and a description of the methodology used to derive them are provided in Annex
4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 62 million; FRR = 6 % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The financial analysis focused on two aspects, the viability of the Baoji to Lanzhou line and the financial
sustainability MOR.
Baoji to Lanzhou Line. Although the FIRR of 6.0 percent is only slightly higher than the average cost of
capital of 5.6 percent, the investment project is justifiable for three reasons:
*   The Bao-Lan line is an important shipment route for bulk products in and out of northwest China.
*   The projected financial NPV, after all maintenance, operating and loan repayment obligations have
been met, is positive-US$62 million (equivalent) at the discount rate of 5.6 percent.
*   Because of existing controls over tariff adjustments and the anticipated magnitude of benefits to the
local economy, the economic benefits of the proposed project should be emphasized.
Annex 5a provides details of the financial analysis of the Bao-Lan line.
MOR. The MOR represents the Government of China as owner of the assets constructed under the project
and is responsible for repaying the Bank loan. The financial analysis focused on the sustainability of
MOR's transport operations. After experiencing losses from 1993 to 1997, MOR transport operations
returned to profitability in 1998. Railway operations are expected to continue to be profitable in the years
to come. The financial analysis found that MOR will be in a position to maintain its operations as well as
- 12-



supply the funds needed for planned capital investments. Annex 5b provides details on the financial
analysis of the MOR's transport operations.
3. Technical:
Bao-Lan Line
The existing railway is a single electrified line that passes through mountainous terrain. The project will
finance the construction of a second electrified 25-kV line between Baoji and Lanzhou as well as improving
134 km of the existing 491 -km line. The line has sharp curves and climbs from about 600 m above mean
sea level at Baoji to 2,050 m at the highest point, and then descends to 1, 530 m at Lanzhou. The alignment
of the second line reduces the distance between Baoji and Lanzhou to 467 kmn.
The design of the line includes automatic block signaling, which will allow for a headway of 8 minutes on
both the tracks. The design capacity of the line is 165 pairs of train per day. The additional capacity will be
sufficient to handle the projected growth of passenger and freight traffic to 2015 and beyond. The new
alignment significantly improves the minimum radius of curves from 300 m to 800 m (with some
exceptions) permitting speeds of up to 120 km/hr. The maximum speed of passenger trains will increase
from 90 km/hr to 140 km/hr. As a result, the transit time for passenger trains from Baoji to Lanzhou,
currently about 9 hours, will be reduced to 6 hours, 40 minutes. The transit time for freight trains, currently
17 hours, will be reduced to 10 hours. The maximum freight tonnage will increase from 3,350 t (in the up
direction) and 2,500 t (in the down direction) to 4, 000 t in both directions. The design of track and bridges
on the second line will permit the operation of freight wagons with an axle load of as much as 25 tons.
The First Railway Survey and Design Institute (FRSDI) in Lanzhou prepared the feasibility study and the
engineering designs (preliminary and final) for the Bao-Lan line. The Appraisal Center in MOR (jointly
with the Department of Planning, Department of Construction, and other departments) reviewed the final
engineering designs before submitting them to the chief engineer of MOR for his approval. The chief
engineer reviewed not only the design of the line but also the availability of counterpart funds. Following
his approval, the final feasibility studies based on the final design were submitted to the SDPC and it was
approved on December 30, 1999. The technical design was considered satisfactory and viable. No
significant technological difficulties are anticipated although it is a challenging engineering project.
4. Institutional:
The client for the project is the Ministry of Railways (MOR).
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center of MOR will have overall responsibility for project
implementation. FCTIC has implemented seven Bank-financed railway projects, three ADB-financed
projects, and four JBIC-financed projects. Experience confirms that FCTIC has the capacity to ensure the
physical implementation of this project.
4.2 Project management:
Under the coordination of FCTIC, the First Railway Survey and Design Institute, the Planning Department,
the Regulation and Law Department, the Finance Department, the Construction Department, the Transport
Bureau, and the Lanzhou, Zhengzhou and Kunming Railway Administration Bureaus will be responsible
for specific project tasks.
- 13-



4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the capacity of both the FCTIC and the tendering companies confirms that all have
extensive experience working with the Bank and are conversant with Bank procedures and guidelines. In
recent years, MOR has managed Bank financed procurement operations satisfactorily.
All procurement activities financed under the project will be undertaken in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The draft bidding documents for the procurement packages are based on the final engineering
design. FRSDI will prepare the technical part of the bidding documents, and selected procurement agencies
will prepare the commercial part of the bidding documents. FCTIC will review the completed documents
and ensure that the commercial and technical aspects are well integrated.
A total of US$156.29 million of goods will be financed by the Bank. Sixty-four contracts for US$153.51
million will be procured under ICB procedures, and about 32 contracts for $2.78 million will be procured
using NCB and shopping procedures. The Bank prior-review threshold of $200,000 will cover all ICB
procurement, which represents 98 percent of the total goods procurement. All NCB and shopping
procurement will fall below the prior-review threshold and will be subject to the Bank's post review.
Bank-financed consulting services total $2.00 million, plus contingencies of $110,000. With the exception
of some small individual consultant contracts totalling $200,000 all contracts will be financed using QCBS
procedures. Company contracts above $100, 000 will be subject to prior Bank review. All the individual
consultant contracts are expected to be below $50,000, and will not be subject to prior review unless they
unexpectedly exceed this amount
4.4 Financial management issues:
The task team conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management system and
the ability of the project office to manage project finances (see Annex 16). The assessment concluded that
this project meets the Bank's financial management requirements. The project will produce project financial
management reports in line with the format and content agreed to between the Bank and China. No audits
or audit issues are outstanding with any of the executing agencies involved in the project.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summnarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The initial Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the project was undertaken by the China Academy
of Railway Sciences (CARS), with assistance from the Ministry of Railway's No. 1 Survey and Design
Institute for the Bao-Lan line. In December 1999, MOR retained AGRA Earth and Environmental Limited
(later renamed AMEC Earth and Environmental Limited), an independent consulting firm, to review and
finalize the EA reports.
The double-tracking and upgrading of the Bao-Lan line through mountainous terrain will be challenging
environmentally, with pockets of unstable terrain, and the possibility of landslides, erosion and safety
concerns. Adverse impacts during the construction phase of the project include:
*  Noise from construction equipment, transport vehicles, and construction operations
*   Public health concerns from the disposal of solid wastes
*   Land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation.
*   Handling, transport and disposal of construction materials.
- 14-



During the operational phase, noise from trains (running wheels, whistles and shunting of locomotives) may
have moderate to high residual impacts, as will an increased power demand from the potential development
of the region.
The selected route for the Bao-Lan line avoids settlements, populated areas and geologically unstable
terrain as much as possible. To minimize and mitigate noise-related impacts during construction and
operation, the EMP includes a number of measures such as:
*   Limiting construction to between 8:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
*   Building temporary and permanent noise barriers at sensitive locations
*   Relocating families, schools, and hospitals
*   Installing double-glazed windows
*   Planting trees
*   Limiting the use of train whistles and speed in built-up and sensitive areas.
To minimize the potential for landslides, the Bao-Lan line will avoid areas of poor geology and incorporate
bridges and tunnels to avoid making slope cuts. The project design also calls for appropriate drainage and
retaining walls and other slope-stabilization techniques. Where possible, sewage will be discharged into
existing municipal treatment systems; at other stations, sewage treatment plants will be installed. Selected
boilers will be fitted with filters to remove particulates. In addition, the EMP provides for training and
extensive monitoring during both construction and operation.
The EA identified 29 cultural relic sites in the westem section (Gansu) and 19 in the eastem section
(Shaanxi). In the eastem section, 14 of the 29 sites were deemed insignificant by the local archeological
authority (The Institute of Cultural Relics and Archeology of the Gansu Province), and thus did not require
any particular attention, and the other 15 were excavated by the authorities before approval was given for
construction. For the eastern section, of the 19 sites identified by the EA, 16 sites were avoided by shifting
the alignment. The remaining three sites are being excavated by the Institute of Archeology of Shaanxi
Province before approval for construction is given.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP for the Bao-Lan line seeks to eliminate or reduce the potential negative environmental impacts of
the proposed lines; enhancing the potential positive effects of the project; and through institutional
strengthening, training, and monitoring, ensure that the environmental mitigation measures proposed are
properly implemented. The major specific objectives of the EMP are to:
*   Reduce noise during the construction and operation of the lines, especially near noise-sensitive
locations such as schools and hospitals
*   Increase treatment of industrial and sewage wastes from construction camps, depots, and railway
stations
*   Reduce fugitive dust emissions during construction and boiler emissions during operation
*   Minimize soil erosion and preserve top soil
*   Prevent stream sedimentation through implementation of proper in-stream construction techniques
and river and stream bank protection during operation.
- 15 -



While proper implementation of the EMP will reduce the magnitude of the impacts, it is impossible to
completely eliminate all noise from the trains, and a moderate level of disturbance is expected to remain
despite the mitigation measures. However, these residual impacts are expected to meet GOC and local
regulations.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: March 2001
For the Bao-Lan line, the Bank reviewed and provided comments on the preliminary EA in January 2000.
The revised draft EA and EMP reports for the Bao-Lan line were resubmitted to the Bank in March 2000.
The Bank reviewed and provided written comments to MOR on the reports in April 2000, and additional
written commnents on revised reports in October, 2000. The final draft reports were submitted to the Bank
in March 2001 and were placed in the Bank's Infocenter in April 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) enviromnental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During the early stages of preparation of the project, the local media (radio, TV, and newspapers) provided
general infornation about the project including investment, line location, railway station settings, land
acquisition and compensation criteria and bridge and tunnel arrangements. During the environmental
assessment phase, the assessment units met with many GOC and local departments and agencies, including
those for agriculture, statistics, planning, forestry, environment protection, transport, and land. The initial
public participation survey included 146 questionnaires; 66 people were surveyed at the outline stage of the
environmental assessment and 80 people after the EIA was completed. An additional 36 people were
contacted to increase women's participation in the survey. In two more public opinion surveys, an
additional 26 and 155 individuals were consulted on the draft ETA. The majority of the people surveyed
(95.5 percent) supported the project, and 96 percent thought that environmental issues were important.
Ninety-four percent of the sample group considered railway noise a major source of pollution. That
pollution category was followed by land acquisition, electromagnetic emission, safety at crossings, water
and soil conservation, and solid waste as environmental concems.
In addition to these surveys' being conducted, 10 public meetings were held in rural communities along the
project route. These meetings took place when the last draft of the EA report was nearing completion. A
total of 1,054 primarily rural residents participated in the public consultation meetings.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental monitoring of the Bao-Lan line will be the responsibility of the Zhengzhou and Lanzhou
Railway Bureaus ,which will supervise the construction. Oversight will be provided by the Shaanxi and
Gansu environmental protection bureau (EPBs) and the SEPA. At all sites, a part-time environmental
protection agent will be provided by the responsible railway bureaus. This individual will have
responsibility for the implementation of the mitigation measures in the EMP and approval of all
environmental works. During the construction period, monitoring will target proper topsoil handling,
implementation of measures to avoid soil erosion, proper handling and disposal of sewage, minimization
and control of dust and noise, enhancement of construction safety. During construction and operation,
monitoring will focus on regular monitoring of sewage (pH, O&G, COD, SS, BOD), noise (ambient
dB(A)), air pollutants (NOx, S02, flue gas), and vibration.
- 16-



Before construction began, training was provided for all staff responsible for environmental protection.
This training covered environmental regulations, environmental issues related to construction, monitoring,
and implementation of the environmental management plan included in the EA. The preliminary
construction works have been monitored during the construction season of 2000 and 2001 and monitoring
reports of a satisfactory quality were provided to the Bank. A Bank team also supervised the ongoing
works in October 2000 and during the summer of 2001.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Minimizing and mitigating impacts associated with land acquisition and resettlement are the primary social
development issues relevant to the project. A Resettlement Action Plan has been prepared by the borrower,
and steps have been taken to avoid the resettlement problems associated with previous railway projects in
China. According to the project RAP, the project will acquire 6,390 mu (426 hectares) of collective land
and retrieve an additional 4,852 mu (about 323 hectares) of railway land from collectives that had been
allowed temporary use. Demolition of 297,005 square meters of housing will necessitate the relocation of
2,548 households. (Additional details on the scale of the impacts are provided in Annex 14.) Because
construction has already begun, land acquisition and resettlement are ongoing. Extemal monitoring reports
were submitted to the Bank in April and July 2001 indicating that the extent of land acquisition required by
the project has declined as final designs emerge. The monitoring report also found that compensation rates
for all categories of land and affected structures are at least as high as those proposed in the RAP.
In early design phases, the doubling of the Bao-Lan Line was expected to result in the closing of 35 small
stations that are required at present for switching and siding functions. Because many of these stations are
located in relatively small and remote communities, a social assessment process was initiated to study the
potential social impact of the station closings. As a result of the physical redesign of the southem end of the
line, the number of potential closings declined to 21. Subsequently, and partially in response to draft social
assessment findings, MOR decided to "demote" 19 of the 21 stations, meaning that the stations would be
closed and staff reassigned, but passenger service on local routes would be at least partially maintained.
The remaining two stations would be closed and passenger service discontinued. But improvements to
highways in both cases have led to increased public reliance on bus transportation. Passenger counts at
both stations have declined in recent years, to a present combined average of 34 passengers a day.
Discontinuing service is not expected to create any significant hardship or inconvenience.
Project screening and socioeconomic survey results indicate that no minority-nationality communities
occupy or use areas in proximity to the project, so an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan was not
necessary.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Consultations with potentially affected persons have taken place as part of normal project design
procedures, as have the environmental assessment, resettlement planning, social assessment, and
monitoring of early stages of land acquisition. The RAP has been disclosed to the public in both Gansu and
Shaanxi provinces. Additional measures have been taken to provide affected communities with information,
through broadcast campaigns and posting of bulletins in public places.
- 17-



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
No NGOs or relevant civil society organizations are known to operate in the project vicinity.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A key constraint in prior railway projects has been weak coordination between MOR and local (e.g.,
provincial, county, township) land administration officials who are actually responsible for acquiring land
and implementing resettlement measures. Measures subsequently taken to improve coordination include: the
appointment of a resettlement coordinator within MOR; training and RAP orientation for local land
administration bureaus in Shaanxi and Gansu Province; and preparation of formal agreements between
MOR, and the two provinces of Shaanxi and Gansu to ensure that implementation is consistent with the
RAP terms and standards. The monitoring reports already received by the Bank are judged to be
satisfactory.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Systematic monitoring of RAP implementation will be undertaken by a qualified institute independent of
the project owner and provincial implementing agencies.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
P_licy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                           * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The monitoring arrangements described above are considered satisfactory.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The physical sustainability of this investment is not in doubt. Experience from completed and ongoing
Bank-financed railway projects in China confirms MOR's commitment to the physical implementation of its
projects. MOR has the ability to build and operate the asset and has provided timely and sufficient
maintenance funding for existing infrastructure.
- 18-



Traffic volumes on the railways in China are expected to continue to grow. EIRR calculations of
completed railway projects in China at the time of loan closing-when the railway financed by the loan has
been in operation for a few years-frequently show higher values than at project appraisal.
The impact of Bank-funded support for railway reform in China is likely to be greater today than it has
ever been. The momentum behind the reform effort and the thirst for knowledge are very great.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth colunm of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Delays to the construction of the          N         Construction has already started
Bao-Lan line
2. Lower than expected through traffic to     M          Government gives priority to the development of
and from western China                                  Westem China
3. MOR does not continue to receive           M         Pressure for reform is coming from "above".
political support for reform
4. MOR does not continue to give priority     M          State Council will not allow them not to reform
to reform                                                and the level of ownership of the specific
proposals included in the project is high.
From Components to Outputs
MOR does not give sufficient priority to      N         Planning and initial construction works are well
the construction of this line                            advanced
Procurement is slow                           N         Political pressure to complete construction is
high
MOR cannot provide the necessary              N         Unlikely given the political importance of this
counterpart funds                                       investment. MOR has repaid the Bank loans on
time to the MOF (China) (see additional note
below).
Overall Risk Rating                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Note. Generally, counterpart funds for all previous railway projects have been available on a timely basis, with the
notable exception of the funds required to finance the electrification of the Wuhan-Guangzhou line in the original
Railways VII. This problem was created because GOC accorded higher priority to the completion of a second
competing line after the project agreement had been signed. However, since the restructuring of Railways VII
(January 1999), counterpart funds have been available on a timely basis. Given that construction of the Bao-Lan
line has already started, this problem should not reoccur with the proposed project.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
This project is not complicated by the standards of previous Bank projects in China. However, it does
include substantial resettlement and environmental protection activities. These have been planned
appropriately and in accordance with Bank policies. Also, they are already being monitored and supervised
closely because construction work began in eamest in early 2001 with some construction initiated in 2000.
- 19-



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The standard conditions of effectiveness apply. No special conditions are required for effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Covenants on Implementation
A seminar will be held annually to permrit an exchange of views between the Bank and MOR about railway
reform.
Dated covenants
Completion of the following studies by the corresponding dates is required:
*  Research on the Cost Model of the Passenger Transportation Company of Kunming Railway
Bureau-March 31, 2003
*   Study on Establishing Railway Passenger Transportation Enterprises in Railway Bureau with
Sub-bureau-March 31, 2003
*   Study on Establishing a Wagon Ownership Enterprise in China-September 2003
*   Integration of Management Planning Tools-September 2003.
Monitoring and Reporting
Beginning January 31 2002, MOR shall prepare quarterly reports (using the format agreed at negotiations)
and furnish them to the Bank not later than April 30, July 31, October 3 1, February 28 each year.
Quarterly reports will:
*  Establish the physical progress of the implementation of the construction works and other
implementation activities for the Bao-Lan line, procurement, and all technical assistance activities
*   List expenditures by component and sub-component and provide information about the availability
of counterpart funds
o   Summarize environmental and resettlement monitoring and evaluation activities (including
monitoring by the independent entities)
*   Review all other current issues that will have an impact on the successful completion of the project.
After fumishing each such report, MOR shall review it with the Bank and take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the project, based on the recomrnmendations of the report and the Bank's
views.
- 20 -



Annual Review
MOR shall prepare annual reports not later than January 31 each year, beginning in 2002. This report
will:
*  Evaluate physical and financial progress with a comparison against the plans agreed during the
preceding year;
*   Set out the construction and implementation programs for the next year;
*   Set out the technical assistance program for the next year;
*   Provide an analysis of the performance indicators.
Nid Term Review
MOR shall provide the Bank with a mid-term review report prior to July 31 2004. This report will provide
a synthesis of all the material provided in the previous annual reports as well as defining a detailed program
for completing the project. It will also provide an evaluation of how well the original project objectives are
likely to be met and propose measures for correctly any likely shortfalls.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
Z2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Richard Oil"     ~ie              Jitendra N. Bajpai                       Huang
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 21 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: National Railway Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Relieve infrastructure    Measures of national and                             Infrastructure development in
bottlenecks               provincial domestic product                          China continues to be a high
priority.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Bao-Lan Line           For the Bao-Lan line:
Provide enhanced through    -Annual freight and passenger Traffic reports provided in    Maintenance of political
movements of both passenger traffic volumes (trips,  conjunction with supervision  commitments to the effective
and freight on a railway  passenger-km, tons, ton-km).                          and efficient use of
between the eastern and   -Average freight train speed                         infrastructure
western regions of the country -Average passenger train
speed and number of pairs
2. Railway Reform
To assist the railway with the  -Railway reform plan is  Progress reports from MOR   MOR maintains its
design and implementation of approved by State Council.   on the design and    commitment to reform
its reform plans          -Pilot PTEs are established   implementation of their
and allowed to operate with  reform program.
commercial independence.
-Plans to implement a
wagon-ownership company
are prepared and a timetable
for implementation
announced.
-Plans are prepared and
implemented for the
development of the integrated
planning and costing tool.
- 22 -



Key Perfornance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Bao-Lan Line                                                                  (i) Construction proceeds
Double-tracking and        Length of completed        Supervision reports; quarterly  according to plan;
operation of the electrified    construction (built and  and annual progress reports  (ii) Through traffic to and
railway line between Baoji   operational); development                           from western China grows as
and Lanzhou                                                                      expected.
2. Railway reform
Studies and workshops to be  Completion of the four studies Supervision reports, quarterly  (i)MOR continues to receive
financed by the project   included in the project     progress reports from MOR    the appropriate political
and consultants.          support for this objective.
(ii) MOR continues to give
priority to railway reform.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                             Outputs)
1. Bao-Lan Line           US$1,298.3 million           FCTIC information for all  (i) MOR give adequate
Construction and                                       components:               priority to the construction of
implementation of the                                   * maintains project     this line.
improvements                                              management             (ii) MOR manages the
information system    procurement activities
* produces monthly      correctly.
reports on procurement  (iii) MOR provides the
* provides Bank with    necessary counterpart funds.
quarterly progress
reports that compare
planned and actual
progress
2. Railway Reform.
Studies and workshops to be   $2.25 million           Quarterly reports from MOR   MOR has the enthusiasm to
financed through the project.                         and consultants.           proceed with the studies and
implement the
recommendations.
- 23 -



MONITORING INDICATOR OF BAOLAN LINE
Year 1998       Year 2000         Year 2004          Year 2008
1998            2000              2004              2008
Passenger Train Pair          14                15                19                 29
Freight                 10298.37          10811.16            14467.3          19821.29
Volume(Ton/Km,
million)                            _
Passenger Volume          5432.4           5658.75             6941.4            8752.2
(Person/KM, million)                _
Freight Intensity         20.847            21.885            29.719             10.718
(Ton/Km, Line/Kmn,
million)
Average Freight Train      23.51             23.51              49.63             49.63
Speed/up (Km/Hour)          _
Average Freight Train      24.73             24.73              46.52             46.52
Speed/down (Km/Hour)        _
Average Passenger           45.7              45.7              68.45             68.45
Train Speed/up
(Km/Hour)                          _
Average Passenger           16.45            16.45              69.12             69.12
Train Speed/down
(Km/Hour)
Operating Expense on                                            0.196            0.0986
Constant ton/Km
(RMB Yuan)                          _
Reform Activities                                                     Target Date
Railway Reform Plan approved by State Council                          12/31/2002
Pilot independent PTEs established                                     06/30/2002
Implementation program for creation of wagon ownership company         12/31/2003
announced
Commitment for developing feasibility of integrated planning and       09/30/2003
costing tool
Completion Targets
Lanzhou to Tianshui     --completion of double tracking                12/31/2003
--completion of electrification
Tianshui to Baoji      --completion of double tracking                 12/31/2004
--completion of electrification
- 24 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: National Railway Project
This project will expand the capacity of a key section of one of the major railway existing lines linking
northwest China with central and eastem China. This line, called the Bao-Lan line, connects the cities of
Baoji in Shaanxi Province and Lanzhou in Gansu Province. It forms part of the major route for passenger
trains between Shanghai, Xian, Lanzhou and Urumqi. It is also one of two major freight routes into
northwest China. The Bao-Lan line was built in 1952 and electrified in 1984 and has a track length of 482
km. The project will double-track and upgrade the existing single-track line.
The project also includes a technical assistance component that will finance four studies to support railway
reform in China.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1298.39 million
Double-tracking and upgrading of the Baoji-Lanzhou line (hereafter referred to as the Bao-Lan line).
The total cost of double-tracking and upgrading the Bao-Lan line is estimated at US$1.298 billion (Yuan
10.78 billion equivalent), of which the Bank will finance US$156.29 million equivalent, or 12 percent of
the total project line costs.
After the double-tracking is complete, the new line, with a length of 457 kin, will carry traffic from Baoji to
Lanzhou, while the partly improved existing line, with a length of 482 Iam, will carry traffic from Lanzhou
to Baoji. The existing line handles 45 train pairs a day, including 14 pairs of passenger trains. After
completion of the project, the line will have a capacity of 165 train pairs a day. MOR traffic projections
indicate that by 2008 there will be 117 train pairs, including 29 passenger trains, and by 2013, 138 train
pairs, including 34 passenger trains. The maximum speed of passenger trains will increase from 90 km/h to
140 km/h. The travel time for an express passenger train going from Baoji to Lanzhou will be reduced to 5
hours, 14 minutes from 8 hours, 51 minutes, and travel time from Lanzhou to Baoji will be reduced to 6
hours, 34 minutes from 8 hours, 40 minutes. The transit time of freight trains will be reduced to 10 hours
from 17 hours.
Subcomponent 1-Double-tracking of the Bao-Lan Line-US$ 934.1 million
The cost of these works is estimated to be US$934 million, or 72 percent of total project line costs. Bank
financing is estimated at US$67.2, or 7.2 percent of the subcomponent cost. This subcomponent includes
land acquisition and resettlement, temporary engineering works, works to construct subgrade, bridges,
tunnels and culverts, laying of track and building construction.
The improved alignment of the second line and the upgrading of the existing line will alleviate the current
geometric constraints of the existing line (such as tight curve radii and inadequate protection from land
slides, among others) and improve the speed, safety and efficiency of the line. The designers and
constructors of the project face many challenges, including high embankments, deep cuttings, soft soils, and
seriously weathered rock slopes, including many areas prone to landslides.
The new line includes 230 bridges of various sizes, with a total length of 54.6 km, compared to 98 bridges
with a total length of 15.5 km along the existing line. The proposed line also will include 74 new or
enlarged tunnels and a linear length of 72.7 km designed for speeds of up to 120 km/hr. Twenty-four
tunnels will be more than 1 km long, and the longest tunnel will be 3.9 km long. The length of the arrival
- 25 -



and departure tracks at stations will be increased from 810 m to 850 m. Most stations will provide facilities
for both freight and passenger services, with a few exceptions that will serve only passengers.
The Bank will not finance civil works for the Bao-Lan line but will finance the procurement of rails,
turnouts, bridge beams and trunion blocks, using international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures for the
purchase of these goods.
Subcomponent 2-Modernizing the Bao-Lan line-US$ 264.6 million
This subcomponent will finance the procurement of goods and equipment for the Bao-Lan line. The total
estimated cost of this subcomponent is US$265 million, or 20 percent of total project line costs, including
Bank financing of US$ 89.1 million, or 34 percent of the subcomponent cost. The following procurement
packages of goods and equipment are proposed:
*   Survey and design equipment
*   Telecommunications
*   Signaling
*   Electrification
*   Power supply
-   Environment
*   Maintenance and operation
-   Track maintenance
A brief description of the procurement packages follows.
Survey and design equipment. This subcomponent will support the survey and design work for the project
line. The Bank will finance all related items, including remote-sensing processing equipment, digital
photographic surveying equipment, engineering visual-design system, and GPS satellite locator.
Telecommunications. This subcomponent includes a number of subsystems for upgrading the railway
telecommunications system on the Bao-Lan line, including those for long-distance and regional, station, and
yard communications, data transmission, telephone exchanges, and communication power sources. The
Bank will finance part of this subcomponent, including program-control exchangers, transmission
equipment, access network, power source, fiber-optic cable, the communication and signal administration
and maintenance system, and a digital dispatch and sequence system.
Signaling. This subcomponent includes the procurement of an automatic blocking system, station
interlocking system, centralized diagnostic system, dispatching and train-monitoring system, equipment for
inspection and repair workshops, and on-board locomotive signal devices. The Bank will finance equipment
for dispatch-monitoring stations, computer-interlocking facilities, power panels, cables, and switch points.
Electrification. This subcomponent consists of traction substations (e.g., traction supply devices),
power-feed system (e.g., contact wires) and remote control systems. The Bank will fund equipment for
traction substations and contact wires, which include circuit breakers, isolation switches, capacitors,
reactors, panels, insulators and telemechanical systems.
Power supply. This subcomponent will supply electric power to the non-traction power-supply system,
such as automatic block system and through lines and stations. Bank funding will be used to contribute to
the procurement of transformers, electric reactors, wires and cables. Local funding will be used for other
equipment.
- 26 -



Environment. This subcomponent is described in Section E of the main document and in Annex 13. Bank
funding will be used for procuring environment-related equipment, including equipment for water and soil
conservation and sewage handling.
Maintenance and operation. This subcomponent will facilitate the maintenance and operation of the
project line when it is put into use. Maintenance and operation systems include the examination and repair
systems for passenger and freight trains and the checking and repair systems for train-braking systems at
marshaling yards. The Bank will finance some of the machines for the maintenance workshops, axle
temperature-detection equipment, material handling equipment and tumout repair equipment.
Track maintenance. This subcomponent will finance the procurement of the necessary equipment for
maintaining the permanent way. The Bank funds will be use to finance machines for tamping, ballast
cleaning, rail-flaw detection, rail welding and switch welding, a dynamic stabilizer and track-inspection car
as well as a rail-grinding train.
Subcomponent 3-Interest during construction and additional locomotive and rolling stock for the
first operational year of the Bao-Lan double line-Local funding
Interest that accrues during construction will be capitalized and is estimated at US$79.68 million, or 6
percent of total project line cost. Local funding will finance this.
The cost of the additional locomotives and rolling stock in the first year of operation after the Bao-Lan line
is double-tracked is estimated at US$19.94 million, or 2 percent of total project line cost. This equipment
will be financed using local funds.
Project Component 2 - US$2.25 million
Railway Reform Studies and Technical Assistance
This component will finance four studies to support railway reform. The Bank will provide US$2.11
million for these studies, and MOR will pay the interest during the implementation period (US$0.14
mnillion).
The project will finance the following studies:
*   Research on the Cost Model of the Passenger Transportation Enterprise of Kunming Railway
Administration. The terms of reference for this study are found in Annex 2a.
*  Establishing Railway Passenger Transportation Enterprises in Railway Admninistrations with
Sub-bureaus. The terms of reference for this study are found in Annex 2b.
*   Establishing a Wagon-Ownership Enterprise in China. The terms of reference for this study are
found in Annex 2c.
*  Tools Integration Work. The terms of reference for this study are found in Annex 2d.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.60 million
The Bank loan will fund US$1.6 million for the front-end fee.
- 27 -



Annex 2a
Terms of Reference for a Study on Research on the Cost Model of the Passenger Transportation
Company of Kunming Railway Bureau
Background
Passenger transportation in China Railways is organized into departments for stations, passenger crews,
and maintenance of passenger locomotives in main production. Separating passenger transportation cost
management and financial calculations will improve the railways' competitive capacity.
Kunming Railway Administration is an experiment in removing administrative levels and establishing
PTEs.
Purpose
To establish a modem railway enterprise, the cost model of passenger transportation must be researched. A
cost model assists the railway in analyzing actual costs of operation and the process of spending capital.
This analysis allows the passenger transportation company to administer costs effectively and improve its
competitive capacity in a market economy. The cost model is also needed for coordinating the economic
relations between the railway bureau and the passenger transportation company and making the passenger
transportation company a stand-alone economic and market-driven entity.
Objective
A cost model of the passenger transportation company will be drawn up by analyzing operational cost
conditions and operating characteristics of the passenger transportation company of Kunming Railway
Administration Bureau. This model will be based on a calculation for each passenger locomotive and coach
type, and will be researched and designed in line with the demand of a modem enterprise system.
Content of Research
The research will include the following elements:
*   Financial relationships between the railway bureau and the passenger transportation company,
including all charges for track access and infrastructure use
*   Cost items of the passenger transportation company
*   Responsibilities of operation of the passenger transportation company
*   The principle and policy of the cost calculation of the passenger transportation company
*   Reasons (if any) for restricting the passenger transportation company in making a direct profit
from the market, and methods of compensation for the company when its market behavior is
restricted by government intervention
* Influence of cost variables such as charges for using lines, traction of locomotive, services to the
passenger transportation company during different periods.
- 28 -



Annex 2b
Terms of Reference for a Study on Establishing Railway Passenger Transportation Enterprises (PTEs) in
Railway Bureaus with Sub-bureaus
Background
Passenger transportation in China Railways is organized under a planned economy. Its main production
segment is divided into different production units and management departments. By dividing operational and
financial management, China Railways can influence the competitiveness of the PTEs in the passenger
transportation market.
No single department in the railway administration is in charge of the quality of passenger operations or
passenger financial results.
Separating infrastructure from operations is the target of reform of Chinese Railways. The process begins with
studying PTEs. When some experience has been gained, the scope of reforms will be enlarged.
Significance
Conducting a study on establishing PTEs in railway bureaus with sub-bureaus is necessary to establish a
modem railway enterprise system and realize China Railways'goal of separating infrastructure from
operations. Establishing PTEs is an important step in reorganizing railway transportation, mitigating the
fragmentation of the railway bureau production departments, and meeting the needs of the market. This study
also is necessary to refine the railways' asset-management system and to establish how railway administration
bureaus and PTEs will relate, as well as to establish the PTEs as market entities.
Target
The target of the study is to draw up a design scheme to establish railway PTEs in railway bureaus with
sub-bureaus, and then implement the recommendations.
Contents
The contents of the study include the following aspects:
*   Specify the relationship between PTEs and railway bureaus with sub-bureaus:
--Charges for use of infrastructure
--Charges for use of assets owned by railway bureaus
--Charges for access to bureaus outside the bureau of origin
--Methods of revenue and cost allocation among cooperating PTEs
--Rights and obligations of PTEs for track access from bureaus.
*   Establish the overall organization of PTEs
*   Spell out management authority and responsibility of PTEs:
--What authority do PTE managers have?
--To whom do PTE managers report?
--What are PTE managers' social responsibilities?
--How are their performance standards and goals determined?
--Establish job descriptions (authority and objectives) of senior PTE managers.
- 29 -



*   Any reasons for restricting PTEs' ability to maximize income from market (e.g., price regulation, and
PSO agreements with the state)
*   The rules and regulations of management accounting in PTE
--Construction of business forms of accounts including 5-year financial forecasting models
--Methods for cost allocation between bureaus and PTEs
--Structure of accounts to be used in business management
--Incentives paid to managers
- 30 -



Annex 2c
Terms of Reference for a Study on Establishing a Wagon Ownership Enterprise
Background
The China Railways was organized to operate in a planned economy. China is now undertaking a set of railway
reforms and is considering various forms of separation of infrastructure from operating enterprises (freight and
passenger). As part of the restructuring effort, China also will need to find new ways of wagon ownership and
management. Even under the planned economy, China had one of the highest levels of freight wagon use in the
world.
Significance
The Chinese freight wagon fleet of over 400,000 wagons is the second largest in the world. It is based on a
relatively limited number of wagon types and sizes designed to promote technical efficiency of wagon use. The
vast majority of the wagons are owned by MOR.
The future wagon fleet is likely to include many more types and sizes to meet shipper demands. In addition,
ownership patterns of freight wagons will also need to reflect a better balance among railways, shippers,
privately owned wagons, and privately owned-system wagons.
Target
The target of this study is to define and establish a near-term wagon ownership enterprise. The near-term model
will be a single entity that will assume ownership of MOR's existing wagon fleet and charge the operating
entities for wagon use. In addition, discuss a reasonable future ownership pattern for the Chinese freight wagon
fleet and describe the legal and policy changes needed to permit such a system to be developed.
Contents
The study must contain the following aspects:
*   Define the principles for setting wagon charges and who should oversee or regulate the charges.
Discuss who should have responsibility for overseeing financial settlements for wagon use.
*   Define the cost scope and accounting structure for the wagon ownership enterprise.
*   Defne the authority and business responsibilities of wagon ownership enterprise management:
--To whom do wagon ownership enterprise managers report and how will their performance be
measured?
--What authorities do they have-independent operation of the business, purchase or disposal of assets,
pricing of services, control over costs, including labor?
*   Define the assets to be owned by wagon ownership enterprise, including wagons, workshops, offices,
etc. Discuss whether wagon ownership enterprises will manage other assets such as shipper-owned
wagons.
*   Discuss which entity or entities wagon ownership enterprises will lease wagons to, such as such as
administrations or FTEs, or the Central Transport Bureau. Define in detail the options for wagon-use
charge structures, including leasing charges, to be paid for use of wagons.
- 31 -



Seminar on Establishing Wagon Ownership Enterprises
Time                   October 2001
Place                  Shanghai
Participants          Policy and Regulation Department, Finance Department, Transportation
Bureau, members of project team, Economic and Planning Research
Institute, domestic and overseas experts
Content               --Types and patterns of wagon ownership elsewhere
--The forces that define wagon ownership patterns
--Information needed to support wagon payments
--Legal and regulatory regimes needed
--Options for wagon ownership and management in China
MOR faces two challenges: first, to support the immediate needs of rail restructuring by creating a wagon
ownership enterprise that will manage wagon ownership in the near term; and, second, to lay the foundation for
defining and considering options for wagon ownership patterns in the future. The tasks above deal with the
immediate need to establish a wagon ownership enterprise. In addition, MOR will sponsor a seminar to be held
in Shanghai to discuss longer term issues. An international expert will be selected to prepare a report and
present it to the seminar covering the following topics:
*   Describe wagon ownership patterns in other countries (particularly the U.S. and Canada, but also
European systems such as Interfrigo or Intercontainer), and discuss current trends. Include a
detailed description of the U.S. wagon fleet-between Class I railroad ownership, ownership by
smaller railroads and non-rail operating companies, shipper ownership, fleet ownership of special
purpose wagons (container flat wagons (TTX) or tank wagons (GATX)), and other significant
owners.
v   Describe the forces behind the operating patterns above, including the impact of types of
commodity and shipment patterns, financial objectives, tax incentives, typical utilization pattems
(for example unit train versus free-running applications), and other forces that affect wagon
ownership incentives.
*   Describe in detail the ways in which wagon ownership is compensated, including charges among
and between railways (how per diem is calculated and billed), charges paid to owners (finance and
use-based leasing), charges to shippers (demurrage), etc.
*   Describe the information used to support charging for wagon use (AAR's Railinc and comparable
European systems such as the UlIC's Hermes) and the computer and communications systems that
make them possible. For example, describe deterrnination of wagon position , measurement of
distance traveled, and identification of wagon.
*   Describe the essential aspects of the legal regime of ownership security, bill settlements and tax
incentives that underpin these stems.
*   Based on the current structure of railways in China and the likely changes as indicated by MOR,
identify:
--Any changes in information systems (TMIS) needed to support wagon charging among owners
--Changes in legal systems needed, if any, to facilitate diversity in wagon ownership
--Likely trends in wagon fleet types and ownership based on a comparison of the current fleet with
broad potential future traffic demands
--Near-term opportunities for separated (especially private) ownership for use in a trial
demonstration of the concept of diversity in ownership.
- 32 -



Annex 2d
Terms of Reference for Tools Integration Work
MOR is a central ministry that oversees 14 geographically based rail administrations. Ten of the 14
Administrations have smaller sub-administrations. The administrations and sub-administrations have
responsibility for operating all passenger and freight services within their boundaries. They interchange traffic
and share revenues in accord with central directives and methods, and they report annual rofits-to MOR.
This organization evolved to suit the demands of the planned economy and, within the planning context,
supported one of the most technically efficient railways in the world. It has become clear that China's
evolution toward a socialist market-driven economy will place different demands on rail services and on the
organization of the entities that provide those services.
MOR has recently embarked on a program of restructuring of the railways of China to fit a market economy
context. This program will involve a number of different initiatives including:
*   "Up/down" separation of operating services from infrastructure
*   Creating new, market-based passenger transport enterprises (PTEs)
3   Creating market-based Freight Transport Enterprises (FTEs) that will initially have the same
boundaries as the administrations, but which may in future have broader boundaries and that may
eventually incorporate degrees of rail versus rail competition.
MOR now faces the challenge of converting these broad policy objectives into an action program in which the
alternatives can be developed and their advantages and disadvantages subjected to quantitative analysis.
Over the past five years, MOR has begun to acquire the analytical tools and capabilities needed to carry out
strategic restructuring analyses. Because these tools were acquired to suit the needs of management in a
planned-economy context, though, they lack some of the features needed for strategic analysis and were not
developed to be used in combination to allow their capabilities to have the most impact.
As the pace of rail restructuring in China intensifies, however, the existing tools will need to be improved
somewhat and, more importantly, they will need to be interlinked so that each can be used to maximum value.
The manual methods of data management in use today in MOR cannot readily answer "What if' questions or
display altemative scenarios quickly. Experience with restructuring shows that the process generates many
questions that need a rapid-response capability ensure that all reasonable ideas are explored and evaluated.
Only interrelated models can provide such a capability.
Three of the tools in question are the Transportation Management Information System (TMIS) data
compilations, the network flow model and the point-to-point costing model.
The purpose of this TOR is to identify the work that may be needed to adapt these models for strategic planning
purposes.
TMIS
TMIS is the mainframe system (IBM ES 9000 in the central office, but regional mainframes are Compaq and
IBM ES 6000) developed by MOR that contains the basic information used to manage MOR's operations and
wagon flow. In the very near future, TMIS should provide accurate, up-to-date information about freight traffic
flows (the basic shipping document, the waybill, contains excellent information on exact origin, exact
- 33 -



destination, routing, commodity, weight, wagon type, and revenue) and passenger flows (origin, destination,
train number, class, revenue, etc.). Now, however, TMIS data must be processed manually before use in the
network flow model and the costing model. By contrast, in the United States, for example, waybill files are
automatically processed for use in network and costing models. TMIS uses a series of computer languages
including C++ and Java among others.
Network Flow Model
A network flow model is a computer-based model of the rail network that permits analyses of system operations
and map-based presentations in analytical and graphical formats. For example, network flow models will
contain, for each link in a network, line identity, ownership, station location (passenger and freight), capacity,
number of tracks, signaling, electrification, and any other characteristics that are relevant. This data will permit
a series of displays (using colors or line widths) that show line capacity, electrified links, ownership, existence
of track access rights, etc. When appropriately coded traffic information is available, network models can
display traffic density, flows of individual commodities (for example, coal), seasonal or unbalanced flows of
traffic, major interchange points, export/import flows, and many system characteristics. Network models can
also develop performance measures such as the number of wagons interchanged by type of wagon and by
particular interchange location, the amounts and types of traffic that could be subject to competition if various
trackage rights were extended, and impacts on traffic densities of future traffic demands and flow pattems.
Network models can also calculate revenue, tons and ton-km by commodity, passengers, passenger-km and
revenue by class, by line, and by season. Network models in conjunction with traffic data are the workhorses of
market-driven railway management.
MOR already has a PC-based network model that will perform a number of these functions. According to
initial discussions, however, the MOR model will not permit timely analyses, or quick responses, because it is
not configured to take data directly from TMIS. In addition, the current network model is not capable of
displaying administration-level or subadministration-level data (because the input data are not coded to show
this information). Thus it cannot measure passengers or wagons interchanged among administrations (or future
PTEs and FTEs), nor can it compute ton-km or passenger-km produced by administration. It cannot measure
the effect of changing operating company boundaries, for example, nor can it measure the effects on improved
efficiency of extending passenger trains across the current administration boundaries. It is also not readily
capable of showing and estimating the competitive impacts of competitive track access rights.
Traffic Costing Models
Point-to-point costing models are the essential basis for managing marketing. Costing models permit an
estimate of the costs that change as a result of decisions to add or subtract an increment of traffic. As a result,
the railway manager can estimate whether adding an increment of traffic (for example, one more wagonload,
another train, a contracted unit train, larger wagons) will add more to revenue than it adds to costs. Costing
models also permit identification of profitable and unprofitable traffic and, for unprofitable traffic, analysis of
ways to reduce costs (or to increase prices). Without good costing models, profitability analysis is impossible.
MOR has also been working on point-to-point costing models, and various working prototypes are available.
Currently, however, the MOR costing models are not capable of rapid interactions with TMIS data to produce
broader profitability analyses, for example by administration or by FTE or PTE, by routes, by commodity
nationwide, or by type of rolling stock. A modified costing model could be used in China to estimate
profitability of the various PTEs and FTEs, and could estimate the impacts on PTE and FTE profitability under
various assumptions as to changes in tariff freedoms and policies, changes in operating procedures, competitive
trends, and trackage rights or changes in service boundaries.
- 34 -



WORK TO BE DONE
The tasks below have the primary objective of permitting the network flow model and the costing models work
better together in a way that will support strategic planning. Consultant assistance is needed to identify steps to
be taken and set up timetables: most of the actual modification work can be done by MOR experts with such
additional help from outside experts as is necessary. In the work defined below, recommendations for action
should include a rough estimate of the required skills and level of effort needed to complete the recommended
tasks.
TMIS Studies
Review the data loaded into, and reports produced by, TMIS to identify exactly which data exists, when, where
and in which format.
Recommend methods and media (e.g., magnetic tape, CD) whereby appropriate TMIS based data and reports
could be automatically produced for use in the network and costing models. For example, recommend methods
to extract from each freight shipment record the basic data for use in network or costing analyses, including
origin station, destination station, routing data, wagon type, weight of shipment, commodity, revenue generated,
and any other relevant data. Recommend procedures with which this data can be reported in a format that is
directly useful in network models and costing models.
Network Model
Tfhe network model is based on a zone-to-zone analysis using approximately 350 zones. Analyze whether the
zone breakdown is detailed enough to pernit workable system structure analyses. In the short run, the zonal
structure is probably good enough for initial analyses; if so, define steps needed to develop a station-to-zone
lookup table so that TMIS origin and destination data can be readily converted to zonal flows.
In the longer run, it may be desirable to add station location codes to the network model so that exact
origin-to-destination information will be available if needed; if so, recommend an approach for adding
station-location coding to the network model. This approach should consider whether the station locations
should be added manually, or whether an automated method should be developed for automatically adding and
updating station locations.
It is not clear how the network model calculates distances. At the zone-to-zone level, a lookup matrix is needed
(if not already available) that shows the distance from any given zone to any other zone. A station-to-station
lookup matrix may also be needed. In both cases, if necessary, recommend an approach and timetable for
adding this capability to the network model.
Two alternatives should be explored on distance calculation-adding a routine to TMIS so that the TMIS data
produced for the network and costing models will already have distance data added, or adding the distance
calculation capability to the network model or the costing model (both of which may already have partial
capabilities to do so in their current form). In addition, consultants should consider adding the capability to
calculate distances based on the actual service route, and not simply on a lookup table basis (this will require
use of the routing infornation available to TMIS).
- 35 -



The network model does not contain link coding to indicate ownership (administration, sub-administration, PTE
or FTE territory). Recommend an approach to add ownership and trackage or operating rights coding to the
network model, along with such other data as may emerge as important. Analyze whether this data should be
added manually or whether an automated capability should be developed for revising and updating link coding.
Costing Model
Costing models require some inputs that are essentially fixed for periods of time (the costing parameters) and
then they estimate costs for traffic segments or increments under study. The first step will be to assess the fixed
inputs for Kunming and then expand these inputs on an estimated basis to the rest of the MOR system. These
inputs consist of network definition, train-related data by section of line, switching data by terminal, wagon
utilization data, and a series of unit costs. Most of these data have been analyzed and generated previously;
they need updating and some elaborating so that they will be good enough for initial analyses.
The fixed inputs need to be developed and refined gradually. Although TMIS can generate much of the
information (especially as the TMIS experience is refined), much of the data will need to be approximated in
the short run. A serviceable set of tables will probably be needed for the Kunming pilot, so that only minor
additional sampling field studies and communications with operating personnel will be necessary. One step will
be to develop the initial fixed inputs and provide a longer range recommended plan for refining the inputs over
time as better information is generated.
The broader scale costing work required for strategic analyses requires a file showing origin, destination,
commodity, wagon type, wagons and tons. Passenger costing requires analogous data. This might easily be
obtainable from TMIS with very minor modifications (and is the basic input to network modeling as well),
including a front-end program to produce the data files and a routine to match the output of the costing model
with the original traffic file. The consultant will review the data generated for, and available from, TMIS and
the network model and recommend any additional data needed from TMIS, and in what form. In addition, the
consultant will review the distance-calculation methods used in either TMIS or the network modeling to ensure
that appropriate distances are available for costing calculations. It is possible that the costing model could be
the source of the subroutines needed to calculate distances for the network models; the consultants should
discuss and make a recommendation as to where the subroutine should be.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: National Railway Project
MS-  ;''-v2..^,,,-g-.>44.
1. Double Tracking of the Bao-Lan Line
a) Land Acquisition and Resettlement                         73.36          0.0|        73.36
b) Ternporary and Transitional Engineering                   35.59          0.0|        35.59
c) Subgrade                                                  95.98          0.00        95.98
d) Bridges and Culverts                                     152.25        26.05        178.30
e) Tunnels and Open Tunnels                                 236.45          0.00       236.45
f) Tracking                                                  89.48         37.48       126.97
g) Houses and Buildings                                      36.15          0.00        36.15
2. Modemizing of the Bao-Lan Line
a) Survey and Design                                          0.00          4.74          4.74
b) Telecommunication                                         20.49          9.42         29.90
c) Signalling                                                47.16          7.19         54.35
d) Electrification                                           31.85        26.39          58.24
e) Power Supply                                              24.86          1.97        26.83
f) Environment                                                0.0           1.02          1.02
g) Maintenance and Operational Equipment                     33.91          5.88         39.79
h) Track Maintenace                                           0.00         27.70         27.70
3. Others of Bao-Lan Line /2                                   62.53          0.00         62.53
4. Technical Assistance                                         0.00          2.00          2.00
Total Baseline Cost                                           940.06        149.841       089.90
Physical Contingency /3                                       75.21          6.74         81.95
Price Contingency /4                                          27.21          1.82         29.03
Total Project Costs                        1042.48        158.401       200.88
Locomotives & Rolling Stocks of Bao-Lan Line /5        19.94          0.0(         19.94
Interest During Construction       79.82          0.00         79.82
Front-End Fee          0.00          1.60          1.60
Total Financing Required                      1 142.24       160.00       1302.24
1/: Yuan 8.30 =US$1.
2/: Recurrent Costs.
3/: Physical contingency was calculated at 8% for domestic costs (which mainly relates to civil work), and 4.5% for foreign
costs (which only relates to goods and equipment).
4/: Price contingency was calculated at 2.68% for domestic costs by using the most recent MWV projection for domestic
inflation rates, and 1.16% for foreign cost (mainly relates to the goods and equipment with the fix or decline trend of price
as experienced in the past several railways projects).
5/: The cost of the procurement of the Locomotives and Rolling Stock which will be put in to use at the first operational year,
partly financed by MOR as equity and partly financed by the domestic bank.
- 37 -



Works                                                         797.63          0.00       797.63
Goods and Equipment                                           175.50        156.29       331.79
Services                                                        0.00          2.11          2.11
Training                                                        0.00          0.00          0.00
Others /2                                                      69.35          0.00         69.35
Total Project Costs                        1042.48        158.40       1200.88
Locomotives & Rolling Stocks of Bao-Lan Line /3        19.94          0.00         19.94
Interest During Construction      79.82          0.00         79.82
Front-end Fee         0.00          1.60          1.60
Total Financing Required                      1142.24        160.00       1302.24
1/: Yuan 8.30 =US$1.
21: Recurrent Costs.
3/: The cost of the procurement of the Locomotives and Rolling Stock which will be put in to use at the first operational year,
partly fmnanced by MOR as equity and partly financed by the domestic bank.
- 38 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: National Railway Project
Economic Evaluation of the Bao-Lan Line
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
This annex presents the results of the economic evaluation of adding a second track to the electrified
railway line between Baoji and Lanzhou (the Bao-Lan line) and upgrading the existing single track. The
investment is expected to yield a net present value (NPV) of Yuan 19.7 billion and to achieve an economic
rate of return (EIRR) of 22.9 percent.
Main Assumptions:
Traffic
Although it transports a growing number of passengers, the Bao-Lan line handles primarily freight.
Measured in terms of converted ton-krns (where one passenger-km is equal to one ton-km), nearly
two-thirds of the traffic today consists of freight. The movement of goods is expected to account for about
three-fourths of the growth in traffic from now until 2013 (the benchmark in MOR projections), so
freight's share of total traffic on the line will grow to 70 percent. Thus, in assessing the costs and benefits
of the proposed project, attention necessarily is focused on the freight sector.
Data supplied by MOR show that an overwhelming proportion of the freight moved over the line-75
percent today and a projected 80 percent in the future-is through traffic, i.e., tonnage that neither
originates nor terminates on the line itself. Hence, the route serves primarily as a bridge connecting the
western regions of Qinghai, Xinjiang, and Gansu with the southern, central, and eastern areas of the
country. Consequently, the total haulage length for this traffic is far greater than the 490 km between Baoji
and Lanzhou; indeed, the typical overall trip length for the line's through freight traffic is on the order of
2,200-2,800 kms. About three-fifths of this through freight represents eastbound flows of bulk
commodities consisting chiefly of crude oil and petroleum products, metal ores and manufactures, and
nonmetal products (such as grain, cotton, fertilizer, and salt). Metal ores and related products constitute the
most important westbound through freight movements. MOR also indicates that non-local through traffic
accounts for a large part of the passenger business over the line, with the major origin-destination pairs
being Urumqi-Chengdu, Lanzhou-Guangzhou, and Xining-Beijing.
These traffic characteristics mean that very little of the freight handled on the Bao-Lan line is or will be
susceptible to diversion by other transport modes. Given the bulk nature of the goods and the long
origin-destination distances involved, truck transport over the national trunk highway system is not a
feasible option to the railway service described here. In the absence of navigable waterways, the alternative
of inland barge movement also is unavailable. Between Lanzhou and Chengdu, a pipeline for refined
petroleum products is under construction, with an estimated completion date of 2015. Once in service, this
pipeline could attract about one million tons of traffic per year from the Bao-Lan line. This diversion has
been allowed for in the freight traffic projection. With the exception of the more circuitous and
capacity-constrained railway line between Baoji and Zhongwei (the Bao-Zhong line), there is therefore no
other transport choice for most of the through freight traffic projected to be handled via the Bao-Lan line.
For Xinjiang and Gansu traffic, the railway distance between Wuwei and Baoji is 746 km via
Zhongwei-about 11 percent longer than the 670 km via Lanzhou. For Qinghai traffic, the railway distance
between Lanzhou and Baoji is 732 km via Zhongwei-49 percent longer than the 490-km project line.
- 39 -



Costs
Direct Project Costs. MOR advises that 11 percent of total project costs is related to labor outlays (in
financial terrns, Yuan 1I.1 billion of an overall Yuan 9.9 billion). For the purposes of economic analysis,
labor expenses are shadow-priced to account for non-wage benefits (such as housing, education, and health
care). Applying the shadow price factor of 1.6 utilized in previous railways projects to these labor outlays
results in a total project cost figure (economic prices) of about Yuan 10.6 billion (see Table 4-1).
Complementary Costs. Five types of complementary costs are accounted for in the analysis:
* Investment outlays for additional railway equipment required to handle the incremental traffic
flows made possible by the project
* Project costs of electrifying and double-tracking the railway line between Lanzhou and Wuwei (to
avoid a capacity bottleneck immediately to the northwest of the project route)
*   Capital outlays associated with providing new production capacity for the incremental freight
traffic that will be transported over the route because of the project
*   Capital cost of generating the electric power necessitated by the addition of a second track
*   Further operating expenses required for catenary maintenance.
An allowance of Yuan 279 mnillion is included in direct project costs for resettlement expenses. Because this
anount approximates the Yuan 250 million indicated in the resettlement plan, no complementary cost
allowance for this item is warranted. Each of these is reflected in Table 4-1 and is discussed in turn.
Railway Equipment. These investments relate to the electric locomotives, freight wagons, and passenger
coaches required to handle the additional traffic that would be moved over the new line. The analysis takes
into account the annual equipment-acquisition schedule, inclusive of the numbers of each type of rolling
stock, the pertinent economic unit price, and the overall projected yearly outlays. The financial price of
each equipment type has been shadow-priced on a factor of 1.12, as supplied by MOR. The economic cost
of the incremental railway equipment amounts to just over Yuan 2 billion (see Table 4-1).
Expanding Capacity of Wu-Lan Line. Of the through freight traffic projected to move over the project
line, about 40 percent will originate or terninate in Gansu province or the Xinjiang region (the comparable
figure for through passenger traffic is 60 percent). To accommodate this volume, the railway line
connecting Lanzhou and Wuwei (the Wu-Lan line), which is now a single-track and diesel-operated route,
will need to be upgraded. Accordingly, an allowance of Yuan 2.8 billion to electrify and double-track the
175-km Wu-Lan line is included as a complementary cost of the project. As shown in Table 4-1, this
amount has been spread over the four-year period 2009-2012.
New Production Capacity Investment. MOR indicates that for about 40 percent of the new freight traffic
to be carried on the project line, expanded capacity in certain factories and mines by non-railway
organizations (shippers) will be required. Consequently, the new investrnent associated with this expanded
production capacity should be included as a complementary cost of the project. Primarily, the industries
where new production capacity is indicated include refined petroleum products (Lanzhou), silicon iron
(Xining), non-ferrous metals (Baiyin), and fertilizer (Golmud). With a cost-recovery factor (depreciation)
of about Yuan 500 per ton for these conmnodities, the average investrnent of additional capacity is
calculated at about Yuan 4,650 per ton. Per-ton product revenues for the identified commodities in year
2000 prices were obtained from the bureau of statistics in each city. The cost-recovery factor is assumed to
- 40 -



be 29 percent of product revenues'. Using this cost-recovery value, the capital investment figure is derived
by assuming a 12-percent interest cost over a 20-year economic life. With the enhanced capacity of the
Bao-Lan line, the incremental freight traffic is projected to approximate 37.1 million total tons by the year
2029. Almost all of this amount (36.1 million tons) will consist of induced traffic. The methodology by
which the annual amount of induced freight traffic was derived is explained in under "Benefits" below. The
investmnent required to produce 40 percent of this "induced" production (14.5 million tons), therefore,
amounts to about Yuan 67.2 billion. Spread over ten years commencing in 2003, this outlay is equal to just
under Yuan 6.7 billion per annum (see Table 4-1).
Electric Power Generation. Because the existing single track Bao-Lan line is already electrified, the
additional electrical demand created by the existence of a second track will be modest. Based on MOR's
estimates for both Shanxi and Gansu provinces, in the short term (i.e., to 2008), 133.3 MW of incremental
generating capacity will be required; by 2013, another 36.2 MW in new generating capacity will be needed.
With MOR indicating that the year-2000 cost of constructing a new electric power plant is about Yuan 5
million per MW, the total capital cost for the requisite incremental Bao-Lan generating capacity is Yuan
847.5 million. In Table 4-1, nearly four-fifths of this amount is allocated to the three-year period prior to
2008, while the remainder is spread over the three years preceding 2013.
Catenary Maintenance. Because the operating expenses for electric traction provided by MOR do not
include all the costs related to the maintenance of the overhead catenary wire, an annual amount should be
added as a complementary outlay. Based on the Railways VII project, this cost per route-km is about Yuan
90,000.6 When this figure is applied to the 490 km (up direction) to be operated, annual catenary
maintenance, commencing in 2004, is equal to Yuan 44.1 million (see Table 4-1).
Benefits
As noted above, the bulk of the incremental traffic that is projected for the Bao-Lan line consists of freight
movements. Moreover, given the logistical characteristics of this volume (long-haul bulk commodity
movements), except for the refined petroleum-product pipeline mentioned earlier, there are no feasible
non-railway altematives that could accommodate these flows. From the standpoint of the economic
evaluation, these factors have two significant implications. First, most of the economic benefits will stem
from the projected incremental freight rather than passenger traffic. Secondly, allowing for the fact that the
available capacity of the neighboring Bao-Zhong line could handle a small portion of this incremental
freight (and passenger) traffic, it is nonetheless true that most of the new volume could not be transported
in the absence of this proposed component. Hence, most of the incremental traffic properly should be
considered as "induced" and valued accordingly as an economic benefit.
To derive annual estimates of this "induced" freight tonnage, the starting point was to quantify the
increment in Bao-Lan volume in the with-project case as compared to the without-project scenario. Next,
the portion of this annual increment that could be diverted to the Bao-Zhong line was derived by estimating
the available capacity of the Bao-Zhong line under the assumption that the Bao-Lan project is implemented.
This involved subtracting the volume of traffic Bao-Zhong would handle with a double-tracked Bao-Lan
line in operation from the annual capacity of Bao-Zhong (about 20 million tons). With the growth in
Bao-Zhong's own traffic, the capacity available to accept diversions from Bao-Lan becomes smaller over
time. In addition, to account for the operation of the Lanzhou-Chengdu refined petroleum-products
pipeline, another one miflion tons per year is considered to be diverted beginning in 2015. Once all of this
"divertable" traffic is accounted for, the remaining volume in the Bao-Lan incremental traffic category is
considered to be "induced" tonnage that would not be transported unless this project is implemented.
-41 -



Following the methodology utilized in Railways VI, the value added for induced traffic is regarded as the
difference between ex-factory commodity revenues and associated production and transport costs. For
representative commodities, unit revenues were obtained from individual city statistical bureaus. On
average, revenues approximated Yuan 2,300 per ton. Production costs were assumed to be 76 percent of
ex-factory revenues, or an average of Yuan 1,748 per ton7'. The railway transport costs for typical
shipment distances supplied by MOR amounted to an average of Yuan 144 per ton. This yields a value
added of about Yuan 400 per ton. In the prior discussion, the capital cost associated with expanding
manufacturing capacity was treated as a complementary cost. To avoid double-counting, a capital
cost-recovery factor (depreciation) had to be added back to the value-added calculation for certain
products. With the unit capital cost recovery assumed to be 29 percent of production costs,' this equates to
Yuan 507 per ton. Adding this amount back to the previous value-added figure of Yuan 400 per ton yields
a value added before cost recovery of Yuan 915 per ton.
As noted in the prior discussion, about 40 percent of the induced freight traffic consists of products where
some added production capacity is required; for this traffic, the value added before the capital cost recovery
figure of Yuan 915 per ton is appropriate. For the remaining 60 percent of induced freight traffic, extant
production capacity is deemed to be sufficient to generate the indicated railway traffic volumnes; here, the
lower value added (inclusive of an already sunk capital cost-recovery factor) of Yuan 400 per ton is
applicable. Taken together, the weighted average value added applied to all induced traffic is Yuan 600 per
ton. When applied to the estimated annual volumes of induced tonnage, the induced freight benefits are as
reported in Table 4-1.
For the induced passenger benefits, a similar methodology was employed. The volume of induced passenger
travel was estimated. The unit value added was assumed to be half of that associated with freight traffic, or
Yuan 300 per passenger. The resulting annual monetary value of the induced passenger benefit is displayed
in Table 4-1.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analyses
Net benefits are calculated for the 30-year period 2000-2029 to derive estimates of NPV and EIRR (a
discount rate of 12 percent was used). As reported in Table 4-1, the estimated NPV is about Yuan 19.7
billion in 2000 prices, and the EIRR is 22.9 percent.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Adjustments were made in three of the base-case assumptions to test the sensitivity of these results. Two of
these adjustments relate to estimates of costs, while the other concerns the valuation of the induced
freight-traffic benefit. The results are reported in Table 4-2.
The two cost adjustments involved raised the direct project costs and the complementary incremental
development costs by 50 percent. The direct project cost increase lowers the NPV to Yuan 19.4 billion and
the EIRR to 20.4 percent. The incremental development cost increase results in a NPV of Yuan 19.7
billion and an EIRR of 17.2 percent.
- 42 -



Similarly, for the induced freight-benefit category, a decline of 50 percent was postulated. This yielded an
NPV of Yuan 11.1 billion and an EIRR of 13.3 percent.
All of these adjustments result in acceptable NPV and EIRR outcomes.
In addition, an analysis of the switching values (values at which the project's NPV becomes zero or the
EIRR equals the discount rate) was undertaken. Here, the critical switching value would be attained if, with
no change in benefits, the total costs (direct plus complementary) of the project were to rise 1.89 times
(from Yuan 84.7 billion to Yuan 160 billion). A similar outcome would result if, with no change in costs,
the total benefits of the project were to decline by 47.1 percent (from Yuan 489.1 billion to Yuan 258.9
billion). In the context of the prior discussion and acknowledging the magnitude of the shifts that are
indicated, the chances that these outcomes would occur must be regarded as unlikely.
It should be recognized that these sensitivity tests are limited by the fact that they cannot determine the
degree of uncertainty associated with these outcomes. To compensate for this, a probabilistic risk analysis
using the Monte Carlo technique was perforned whereby the key inputs to the analysis are allowed to vary
at random between set limits and all factors are permitted to change simultaneously. By evaluating the
resulting distributions, the risk accompanying the various decisions can be assessed.
The factor with the most uncertainty and impact on the economic evaluation of the Bao-Lan line is the
induced freight benefit. The results of the probabilistic risk analysis for this variable show that the likely
range for the EIRR falls between 21.2 percent and 24.3 percent, and for the most likely scenario the EIRR
is 22.7 percent (see Table 4-3).
References
The First Survey and Design Institute of the Ministry of Railways, The Feasibility Study of the
Proposed New Second Line on Baoji-Lanzhou section of Lianyungang-Lanzhou Railway (August
2000) (the Bao-Lan Feasibility Study) at Part V, paragraph 3. 1, and aftemoon meeting notes of
November 11, 1999.
China: Seventh Railway Project (Loan No. 3897-CHA): Proposed Restructuring and Amendment
to Loan Agreement, (R99-2, January 13, 1999) (the Seventh Railway Project Loan) p. 21, para 6.
Resettlement Plan (December 2000) Section 5.5, and morning meeting notes of December 7, 2000.
Supplementary Volume for Project Implementation, Sixth Railway Project (Report No, 11357-CIHA,
February 25, 1993) Working Paper No. 22) (Sixth Railway Project Loan)
Bao-Lan Feasibility Study, chapter VII, table following paragraph 11.
Seventh Railway Project Loan, paragraph 10.
Sixth Railway Project Loan, Working Paper 22
Ibid
- 43 -



Table 4.1 Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Baolan Line
(Year 2000-yuan in Million)
Drec Costs                             CC&         _BaoLalueAdded
La. Laf-w           IrcremertJ   Eleirc  Caeray   TOTAL    Indtxnd    Inidind     TYTAL         NE_
Year             Eauunert  Exa            D       __ P    _1         CX6TS       Fr      BeENffS    BEBEFITS
2X0    742469                                                        742469                                 -(74247)
2001   2425.875                                                     Z425.875                                       (2425.37)
2002  4,902886                                                      4,902886                                        (4_90239 9
2XX3  2,535.310    45sas               6,722040                     9,716214                                       (9,716.21)
2004              129.19N              6,722040             44.10D  6a895.338    2736.000    618000    3,354.000    (3,541. 34)
2005              138.       _         6,722040   222167   44.100   7,126.710    4,602X000    909.000    5,511 000    (1,615 71)
2X06              125. _ _             6,722040   922167   44.100  7,114.013    6,672000   1,266X000    7,93800o     823.99
27CY7             207.71               6,722040   222167   44.100   7,196.024    8,92200X0   1,611 .000   10,533.000  3,336.98
2008               99.6_               6,722040             44.10)   6,866.047   10,416.00)   1,944000   123660.000  5,493.35
2009               8247    700000    6,722040               44.10D  7,548.610   12,04200)   2,2D5.00)   14,247000   6,698. 39
2010               86.      700.000    6,722040     60.3    44.100   7,612817   13,044.00)   2283.000   15,327.000  7,714 18
2011               9221    700.000    6,722040      60.33   44.100   7,61a6B3   14,076.000   Z454.000    16,530.00)  8,911 . 32
2012               60.171   700.0o    6,722040      60.3    44.100   7,596.645   15,162000   2622000   17,784.000    10,197.36
2)13               80.357                                   44.100    124.457   15,726)000   Z83&0a0    18,564o00)    18,439.54
2)14          1   38.775           T           I    _       44.100    82875   17,47aooo   2958ooo   20,43600o    20,353.12
2)15               41.07         _                      -  44.10)     85.179   17,190)OO   3,078000   20,268.000    20,1232
2016               43.90o                                   44.100    88.009   1750200)1 317700)   20,6790)00    20,590639
2017               44.14 h                                  44.100    88.244   17,826.000   3,276.000   21102000    21,013.76
2018               25.571 _         _           _           44.100    69.670   18,160.00)   3,375.00)   21,525.000    21,455.33
2019       r       25.571 _         _                       44.100    69.670   18468.000   3474.000   21,942000    21,872.33
) 2020__      1   26.09            1           1        1  44.10)     70196   18,792000   3,573.00)   22365.000    22,294.30
2021          |   26.359           |           |_j_44.100             70.459   19,12B000   3,67200)   2280o)o0     22729.54
a22      i        26.3% _          _           _           44.100    70.459   19,4640))   3,714.00)   23,17800)    23,107.54
2Y3M               30. r            _    __                 44.100    7M.69   1980)0))0  3,753.000   23,553.000    23,47793
-24                32-393           r              __| 44.100         76.493   20,14200)   3,7920))   23,934000    23,857.51
2025                  31.6D4                                  44.10)     75.704   20,4o000)   3,828.00)   24,3180)0    24,24230
|2    ___   |   32.39         _                 _ r     |44.100       76.493   20,320)   3,64.00)   24,696.(XX     24,619.51
|2L |7   332911                                         |  44.10)     77.391   21,18&6O0   3,897.00    25,W.000    25,005.61
20 228               1 18410         T          7 _           44.10)    629510   21540.00)   3,930.00)   25,470.000    25,407.49
2C2 9__              18A410 __r__                             44.100    62510   21,68400)   3,9600)0  25,64400)    25,581.49
Tcd   | 10,606.540  2056.679  2800.0001 67,220.40)  847.500  1,146X00  84,677.719  413,0700))  76,G710)00  489,141.00)  404,4632s1
Net Peset Vakeat 12%:    19,730.488
EcronicRad Ret             2291/ _
VAF F. -t
- 44 -



Table 4-2
Sensitivity Analysis for Bao-Lan Line
(Year 2000 Yuan in millions and percent)
______     ______    ______                                 NPV                    EIRR
________   ________   ________  ________              Y uan   m illions)  _ _ _     e  nt
Base Case                                                 19,730.488                 22.91
__      _ XIncrease Direct Project Costs by 50%                      19,399.029                 20.36
Increase Complementary Development
Costs by 50%       D                                    19,730.488                  17.19
Decrease Induced Fre ght Benefits by 50%                  11,087.312                  13.25
Source:   Table 4-1.
-45 -



Table 4-3    Crystal Bali Report
Forecast: EIRR
Summary:
Display Range is from 17.89% to 27.44%
Entire Range is from 17.66% to 28.61 %
After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Me an is 0.06%
Statistics:                                                  Value
Trials                                                   1000
Mean                                                   22.73%
Median                                                 22.67%
Mode                                                       ---
Standard Deviation                                      1.80%
Variance                                                0.03%
Skewness                                                  0.06
Kurtosis                                                  2.76
Coeff. of Variability                                     0.08
Range Minimum                                          17.66%
Range Maximum                                          28.61%
Range Width                                            10.95%
Mean Std. Error                                         0.06%
Forecast EIRR
1,000 Trials                  Frequency Chart                    0 Outiers
016  __                                                       _ _ -  1575
=  011   -                                                        5  LB
Ws                                          IL ,2 i         lESIilllllII II,5,,   25
17.9%        2028%         22 f6i%      256%          27.44%
-46 -



Percentiles:
Percentile                                     %
0%                                   17.66%
10%                                   20.38%
20%                                   21.15%
30%                                   21.79%
40%                                   22.24%
50%                                   22.67%
60%                                   23.17%
70%                                   23.72%
80%                                   24.27%
90%                                   25.11%
100%                                   28.61%
End of Forecast
Assumptions
Assumption: VA Freight
Normal distribution with parameters:                      VA F"Ight
Mean                         100%
Standard Dev.                  10%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
70%   85%.  100%  tss  130
End of Assumptions
- 47 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: National Railway Project
Years Ending
December 31, US$ Million
|Year I  I Year 2  |Year 3  | Year 4  |   erYear           er6|Year 7|
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           77.2      254.9      532.5      285.7         0.9        0.1       0.(
Recurrent Costs             6.7        19.3       21.7       21.7        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          83.9      274.2      554.2       307.4        0.9        0.1       0.0
Interest during    1.3        11.2       28.9       38.4        0.1        0.0       0.0
construction
Front-end fee     0.0         1.6        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0 (
Total Financing              85.2      287.0      583.1       345.8        1.0        0.1       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0        17.2      125.2       16.5        1.0       0.1         0.(
Government                85.2       269.8      457.9      329.3        0.0       0.0         0.(
Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.t
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.(
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.C
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.C
Others                     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.C
Total Project Financing     85.2      287.0       583.1      345.8        1.0       0.1        0.U
Main assumptions:
Ministry of Railways (MOR) will be the solely responsible for the implementation of this project and will
mobilize all the necessary financing, and repay all funds borrowed for its construction. Therefore, this
analysis focuses on two issues. Firstly, the financial soundness of the Bao-Lan line, which accounts for
nearly 98% of the Bank loan. Secondly, the analysis reviews the financial viability and debt servicing
capacity of MOR.
A. Financial Analysis of the Bao-Lan Line
Objective
This analysis should be read in conjunction with the economic analysis of the Bao-Lan line in Annex 4 of
this document. The objective, in general terms, of the financial analysis is to confirm the financial
soundness of the investment in the line. Specifically, the analysis focuses on:
*  The financial rate of return compared to the average cost of capital for double-tracking and
upgrading the line
* The adequacy and timely availabil:ity of the necessary counterpart funds required to complement
Bank funding
*  The results of sensitivity analyses designed to test changes in the base case assumptions.
-48 -



Because the calculations of the financial rate of return are based on the projected net cash flows of the
Bao-Lan line, the debt servicing of all loans (including the Bank loan for this line) and the cost of annual
and periodic repairs and replacements have been taken into account.
Background
MOR represents the Government of China (GOC) as the sole owner of the Bao-Lan line. The total
investment costs of the line (comprising construction costs, interest on loans during construction, and the
costs for acquiring locomotives and rolling stock) will be financed by MOR using internal funds and loans
obtained from domestic banks (mainly the State Development Bank) and the World Bank. See Table A5.1
for details. The monies to service these loans will be obtained from operating revenues generated by the
Bao-Lan line when it starts operations. Table A5.1 summarizes the financing of the Bao-Lan investment.
Table A5.2 shows these figures in US$ at the exchange rate of Yuan 8.30 per dollar.
Table A5.1: Financing of the Bao-Lan Line
(In Yuan Millions)
Item                                       Domestic       Foreign        Total
Equity: Ministry of Railways                  5     _719                5,719
Loans: Domestic: State Development Bank       3760-                     3,760
Foreign:  The World Bank                 ---        1,297        1297
Total                                         9,479        1      297  10,776
Table A5.2: Financing of the Bao-Lan Line
(In US$ Millions)
Item                                       Domestic       Foreign        Total
Equity: Ministry of Railways                   689                        689
Loans: Domestic: State Development Bank        453 |___       ---_|       453
Foreign:  The World Bank                 ---          156          156
Total                                         1,142          156        1,298
The line will be constructed between 2000 and 2003, and both passenger and freight operations are
scheduled to start in 2004. MOR forecasts that about three-fourths of total traffic between 2004 and 2029
will be freight traffic.
The Zhengzhou and Lanzhou Railway Administration Bureaus (RABs) will be responsible for operating
the sections of the line within their jurisdictions in Shaanxi and Gansu Provinces respectively. The
Zhengzhou and Lanzhou RABs are required to forward revenues from operating the Bao-Lan line to MOR.
MOR compensates the RABs for the costs they incur in operating the line, allocates a profit or loss through
the MOR "inter clearance of revenues" system, and pays interest and principal on domestic and foreign
loans.
- 49 -



Traffic, Tariffs, Costs and Other Assumptions
Full details of the assumptions made to prepare the base case of this analysis and the base-case financial
statements of Bao-Lan line are available in the project file (balance sheet, income statement and sources
and applications of funds statement). The assumptions are explained below.
Traffic. The projected increases in traffic are rather modest. They focus on the traffic volume increases
caused by incremental market growth and do not take into consideration the potentially higher traffic
demand that may be realized as the proposed Westem Region Development Strategy is implemented.
Specifically, the projections of the incremental increase in traffic volume take into account the following:
*   The potential areas and populations that will benefit from the Bao-Lan line
*   The variety and volume of natural resources (such as oil, ores, fertilizers and non-metal products)
available in the areas served by the Bao-Lan line
*   Constraints due to the restricted capacity of the current line.
Freight Tariff. It is assumed that from 2004 onwards the average tariff rate for the Bao-Lan line will be
Yuan 0.0896 per ton-kin, which is the same level as in 2000. This is considered a conservative assunption.
Although the feasibility study submitted by MOR indicates that only the basic tariff and construction
surcharges apply to the Bao-Lan line, it is noted that the proposed Bao-Lan line, as a new electrified line,
would also qualify for a supplementary electrification charge, which became effective in 1993 for all
existing and new electrified lines.
Passenger Tariff. The current Bao-Lan single-track line offers both regular and slightly higher-quality
service trains, and the average tariff was a little over 0.12 Yuan per person-km in 2000. In addition to the
basic tariff approved by SDPC and applicable to regular passenger trains, a higher tariff applicable to
trains with better services (i.e., higher speed or better facilities) was approved by SDPC in 1992. Although
after the project is completed in 2004 the Bao-Lan line will be able to offer much higher-quality services
and consequently command higher tariffs, the financial analysis assumes that the average tariff level of the
current Bao-Lan single line for 2000 will continue to apply throughout the period 2004-2029-also a
conservative assumption.
Costs. Costs include:
*   Variable costs such as payroll, materials, electricity supply and repairs
*   Fixed costs such as general administrative expenses, welfare benefits, and pensions
*   Depreciation for infrastructure, locomotives and rolling stock
The useful life of infrastructure was assumed to be 25 years, and the useful life of locomotives and rolling
stock 16 years, which is acceptable when compared to the current practice of Class I railways in the United
States.
Interest Expenses. Interest expenses were calculated using the interest rates at which different loans are
expected to be obtained, taking into account the current interest rate structure.
Taxes. Taxes were calculated according to current tax rates for business taxes, city construction
surcharges, and educational supplementary charges. In accordance with China's tax regulations, the
- 50 -



railways are subject to a corporate income tax rate of 33 percent. Freight revenues generated from
construction charges are exempt from this tax, and operating losses can be carried forward for up to five
years.
Net Cash Flows and Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
The weighted average cost of capital (loans and equity) was calculated as 5.6 percent (see Table A5.3).
This figure has been used to calculate the discounting net cash flows and to obtain the net present value
(NPV) of investments in the Bao-Lan line.
Table A5.3: Weighted Average Cost of Capital
Item                                                Amount        Opportunity Cost
(in US$ million)    or interest rate
Equity: Ministry of Railways                                 689              5.00%
Loans: Domestic: State Develooment Bank                      453              6.21%
Foreign:  The World Bank                              156             6.50%
Total amount / weighted average cost                        1298              5.60%
Net Cash Flows and FIRR. Net cash flows are calculated for the 30-year period 2000-2029 to derive
estimated NPV and FIRR. The NPV at the weighted average cost of capital of 5.6 percent is Yuan 517
Million and the FIRR is 6.0 percent, which indicates that the investment is acceptable. The section on
sensitivity analyses provides further information.
Sensitivity Analysis
The financial sensitivity tests are detailed in Table A5.4. The following four factors may have a direct
impact on the output of the financial evaluation:
* Traffic
* Tariffs
* Operating costs (i.e. operating expenses less depreciation)
* Cost of project investment.
Table A5.4: Sensitivity of Financial Evaluation Output to Variations in Four Factors
Factors \ Fluctuation Range (FIRR)  Output   -30%   -20%   -10%  0%    10%    20%    30%
Traffic Volume               FIRR      3.1%   4.1%   5.1%   6.0%   6.8%   7.6%   8.3%
Tariff                       FIRR      2.5%   3.8%   4.9%   6.0%   7.0%   7.9%   8.8%
Operating Cost               FIRR      7.0%   6.6%   6.3%   6.0%   5.6%   5.3%   4.9%
Project Investment           FIRR      8.5%   7.5%   6.7%   6.0%   5.4%   4.8%   4.3%
Although the projected traffic volumes in the base case are modest, higher traffic volurnes are likely if
potential market demand is met and the economy in the service areas served by the Bao-Lan line grows as
anticipated.
Because most prices are not expected to change significantly in the short term, no major changes are
expected in operating costs. Even if salary and wages increase, as is likely, MOR will take steps to imnprove
productivity and restrain price increases.
- 51 -



Modest physical and price contingencies have been allowed for in the current capital cost estimates.
Experience from previous Bank railways projects indicates savings are more likely.
The tariff has the greatest impact on FIRR. Although tariff ceilings are currently in place for both freight
and passenger traffic, both MOR and SDPC will be under pressure to deregulate tariffs as the economy
becomes more market-oriented. Compared to tariffs for other transportation modes in the project areas,
freight and passenger tariffs on the Bao-Lan line are relatively low, and consequently any increase in tariff
is expected to be absorbed without a major impact on traffic volumes.
Availability of Counterpart Funds, Servicing of Bank Loans and Sustainability of the Bao-Lan Line
The Sources and Applications of Funds Statement (included in the project files) shows how MOR proposes
to make funds available to finance both construction and the purchase of locomotives and rolling stock.
According to the information provided, and taking into account MOR's performance under previous
railway loans, the Bank team believes that the counterpart funds will be made available on a timely basis to
complete the project.
Conclusion
According to this analysis, the base case with FIRR of 6.0 percent exceeds the weighted average cost of
capital of 5.6 percent and demonstrates that the investment cost will be recovered within a reasonable
period.
B. Financial Analysis of Transport Operation of Ministry of Railways (MOR)
MOR represents the Government of China as the owner of the assets to be funded by the National
Railways project and is responsible for repaying the Bank loan and all domestic loans. This part of the
analysis focuses, therefore, on the financial viability of MOR. Using the audited historical and projected
financial statements as a base, this analysis examines the financial performance of MOR's transport
operations from 1993 to 2005, including actual and forecasted figures.
Past And Present Financial Performance
Since 1986, there has been an economic contract between MOR and GOC that states that MOR must
finance all of its operating and capital expenditure through intemally generated funds and borrowings. The
revenues generated from passenger and freight transport operations were the major sources of revenue for
financing operations. In addition, between 1986 and 1990, they were the only source of funds for capital
expenditures. However, in 1991, the introduction of a railway construction freight surcharge was approved
by GOC. Since then, this surcharge has been the main revenue source for financing capital expenditures.
By means of the 1986 economic contract, GOC had hoped to encourage MOR to operate the railways in
accordance with market principles. MOR rose to the challenge. Between 1986 and 1992, MOR made a
profit on its transport operations. It also electrified 4,200 km of track and completed 1,500 km of new
lines. What is more, from 1990 to 1992, MOR remitted annual profits of Yuan 2 billion to GOC, even with
the tariff levels set by SDPC.
The situation changed in 1993 when MOR transportation operations began to lose money. This
unprofitable situation continued through 1997, for the following reasons:
- 52 -



*   Tariffs and surcharges continued to require prior approval by GOC.
*   Between 1993 and 1995, the consumer price index increased-by 14.7 in 1993, 24.1 in 1994, and
17.1 in 1995-while the freight tariff and railways construction freight surcharge remained
constant.
*   The railways were operating in an increasingly competitive environment and lost market share.
Table A5.5 summarizes figures for revenue and expenses for the period 1993-1999.
Table A5.5: Actual Revenue And Expenses, 1993-1999
(In Yuan Millions)
Item/Year                                1993     1994     1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Operating Revenue                      80,294  93,608   99,367 112,004 121,283 128,042 136,209
of which surcharge revenue           24,347   33,935   34,762  35,319  35,115  35,785  36,370
Operating Expenses                     47,641   57,086   64,056  70,453   81,226   84,836  90,290
Operating Income                       32,653   36,522   35,311  41,551  40,057  43,206  45,919
Net Income /a                          20,385   25,294   19,380  23,027  20,181  23,167  28,491
of which transfer to:
Income/(loss) from Transport Op.      (734)  (2914)   (6419)  (1379)  (2613)  .1,265   4,166
Fund for Railway Upgrading           21,119  28,208   25,799  24,406  22,794  21,902  24,325
Working Ratio (%) /b                     75%      86%       89%     79%       81%      79%      78%
Operating Ratio (%) Ic                   85%      97%      101%     92%       94%      92%      91%
Unit Operating Revenue (Fenlctkm)        3.63     3.76      4.00    4.76      5.19     6.13     6.42
Unit Operating Expense (Fenlctkm)        3.09     3.60      3.97    4.37      4.89     5.63     5.80
/a: Operating income plus net non-operating income, less taxes. Income of DECO is combined into the net income from 1998 onwards.
/b: Working Ratio: Operating expenses minus depreciation, expressed as a percentage of operating revenues minus construction freight
.surcharge revenues.
/c: Operating Ratio: Operating expenses expressed as a percentage of operating revenues minus construction freight surcharge revenues.
MOR's transport operations returned to profitability in 1998 when MOR.
Freight-tariff increases of 0.5 fen in 1998 and 0.11 fen in 1999 also contributed to the net operating
income of the railway, while deflation in 1998 and 1999 also helped boost operating results. As Table A5.6
shows, MOR's transport operations are expected to continue to make a profit.
Future Financial Performance Forecast: Base Case
The base-case assumptions are presented in Table A5.6, and more detailed information is available in the
project file. The following key financial assumptions were made for the base case for the years 2000 to
2005:.
*   Combined freight and passenger traffic (ctkm) will increase at 2 percent per year, compared to the
projected GNP growth rate of 7 percent (a conservative assumption).
*   The average freight tariff (including base tariff and freight surcharge) will decrease by 3 percent in
2000 and 1 percent per year during the period 2001 to 2005.
- 53 -



*  The average passenger tariff will increase by 1 percent per year.
*  Operating expenses (excluding (lepreciation) will increase at a rate of 2 percent per annum.
These estimates were prepared on the basis of the investment plans in China's 1 0th Five-year Plan. They
include Yuan 65 billion for a capital investment program in 2000 (including Yuan 57 billion for new
investment and Yuan 8 billion for equipmnent replacement), and Yuan 392.5 billion during the period 2001
to 2005 (including Yuan 350 billion for new investment and Yuan 42.5 billion for equipment replacement).
Table A5.6: Forecast Revenue And Expenses, 2000-2005
(In Yuan Millions)
Item/Yea r                          2000    2001    2002   2003    2004    2005
Operating Revenue                141,042 143,542 146,242 148,942 151,642 154,342
of which surcharge revenue       36,500  37,000  37,700  38,400  39,100  39,800
Operating Expenses                94,035  96,129  98,076 100,065 102,457 104,513
Operating Income                  47,007  47,413  48,166  48,877  49,185  49,829
Net Income                        24,187  24,322  24,697  24,968  25,147  25,346
of which transfer to:                          I
Income/(Ioss) from Transport Op.  4,965   5,131    5,349   5,464   5,487   5,530
Fund for Railway Upgrading       19,222  19,191  19,348  19,504  19,660  19,816
Working Ratio (%)                   78%      79%     79%    79%      79%     79%
Operating Ratio (%)                 91%      91%     91%    92%      92%     92%
Unitoperating revenue (Fen/ctkm)    6.16    6.15     6.15    6.14    6.14    6.13
Unit operating expense (Fen/ctkm)   5.54             5.561   5.56    5.59    5.59
As Table A5.6 shows, MOR's transport operations are forecast to continue to make a profit until 2005.
The working ratio is projected to be just below 80 percent, while the operating ratio is projected to remain
at just above 90 percent.
Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis focuses on MOR's financial sustainability, using three scenarios-low, medium
and high-related to average freight and passenger tariff, construction freight surcharge, and capital
investments. The results of key ratios are presented in Table A5.7.
- 54 -



Table A5.7: Sensitivity Analysis-Key Ratios, 1999-2005
'qCeJa. V-'                                              .199       20ri 2n01             2102       20fu       2n4        20011
BaseCase-                                            -_                                              _                    _
Operating Ratio (%)                                      91         91         91         91         92         92         92
Self-Financing Ratio (%) /a                             45          30         27         26         26         26          -
Debt Service Coverage /b                               2.30       1.63       1.61       1.60        1.59       1.58       1.56
Low-Case-Average freight/passenger tariff and
construction freight surcharge decrease by 3%
annually from 2000 onwards; Capital
investment increases to higher level
Operating Ratio (%)                                      91         90         92         94         97        100        102
Self-Financing Ratio (%)                                 44         32         25         20         15         11           -
Debt Service CoveraRe                                  2.30       1.71       1.48        1.48       1.37       1.26       1.16
Mediurm Case..No change in freight /passenger
tariff and construction freight surcharge
onwards 2000; Capital investment remains
constant
Operating Ratio ()                                       9 1        87.        87         87         87         88         88
Self-Financing Ratio (%)                                 45         39         37         36         36         37           -
Debt Service Coverage                                  2.30       1.83       1.83        1.83       1.82       1.81       1.80
HighiCase..Average freight/passenger tariff
and construction freight surcharge increase by
3% annually onwards 2000; Capital
investment decreases to lower level                                              _  ___
Owrating Ratio()                                         9 1        85         83         81         79         77         75
Self-Financing Ratio (%/6)                               45         48         53         59         67         75           -
Debt Service Coverage                                  2.30       1.95       2.07       2.19         2.3       2.42       2.54
la:    Self-Financing Ratio: Intemally generated funds [i.e. Income after taxes (losses) plus construction freight surcharge ( net
of taxes and after interest payment) plus depreciation minus principal repayments] as a percent of the average capital
investments and equipment replacements in years (x-1), x and (x+1)
/b:    Debt Service Coverage: Income after taxes (losses plus interest and depreciation divided by interest and repayment on
long-term loans to be paid in the same year)
These sensitivity tests demonstrate how sensitive the financial results are to even small adjustments in
fares. The self-financing ratio in the base case hovers at between 25 percent and 30 percent, which is
clearly on the low side of acceptable. However, the debt-service ratio is at a more acceptable level, between
1.55 and 1.60. Furthermore, the debt-service ratio is expected to deteriorate only very slightly during the
period 2006 to 2010. These tests also show that even small real increases in fares would move both these
ratios into more satisfactory territory. On the other hand, even a small increase in capital expenditures
would have the opposite effect of moving these ratios into unsatisfactory territory.
- 55 -



Based on all the information available to the task team, the most likely scenario is that the price bureau of
SDPC is unlikely to allow MOR to increase freight fares any faster than inflation, and passenger fares only
a little faster than inflation. Also, given the investrnent assumptions included in the 10th Five-year Plan,
MOR will continue to invest in new capital projects at rate which is consistent with the investment rate of
the last two years.
Conclusions
It is reasonable to conclude that, until 2005, MOR will be in a position to maintain its transport operations
and meet its funding needs for capital investments. If the current reform program is implemented and MOR
is allowed to operate in an even more market-oriented fashion, it is anticipated that MOR will be able to
continue to operate profitably even after 2005.
- 56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: National Railway Project
Procurement
Summary of the Assessment of Agencies' Procurement Capacity
The Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center (FCTIC) of the Ministry of Railways (MOR) will be
responsible for coordinating procurement for the Bank-financed activities in this project.
FCTIC has chosen the International Tendering Company of China Machinery Import & Export
Corporation (CMC-ITC) as the procurement agent for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurement activities, and the China Railway Import & Export
Corporation (CRIEC) as the agent for all goods shopping and consulting-services procurement activities.
CMC-ITC is an experienced procurement agent and is familiar with the international and national
competitive bidding procedures for Bank-financed projects. CMC-ITC was MOR's procurement agent for
the Bank-financed China Railways VII project. CRIEC was the appointed agent for shopping and
consulting-service procurement for both the Railways VI and VII projects. It is familiar with the Bank's
procedures for shopping and consulting-services procurement and is qualified to undertake the assigned
procurement tasks.
The assessment found that FCTIC should be capable of managing all procurement activities satisfactorily.
Staff members who were involved in previous Bank-financed railway projects are familiar with the Bank's
procurement procedures. The need for strengthening the agencies' procurement capacity has been identified
and an action plan was prepared during the assessment. The action plan includes the preparation and
dissemination of a project procurement manual and sample forms for quotation solicitations used in
shopping procedures, among other things.
The assessment identified some shortcomings in the general procurement framework in China, including
some aspects of the bidding law for construction projects that became effective January 1, 2000. The
shortcomings are summarized in an attachment to this annex. These are country-wide issues that are being
addressed in an ongoing dialogue between the Government of China (GOC) and the Bank. The bidding law
does make an exception for procurement financed by loans or aid from intemational institutions or foreign
governments that require different procedures. Accordingly, MOR has agreed to follow Bank guidelines
wherever there are differences between these and national procedures.
Another concern identified during the assessment is the length of GOC's intemal review process for ICB
goods procurement, both before the draft bidding documents and bid evaluation reports are submitted to the
Bank for review. The review period can be lengthy when a disagreement arises among the govenunent
agencies involved in the review process. The Mechanical and Electrical Product Import and Export
Department (MEPIED) of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) is
authorized to conduct such reviews and resolve any disagreement. To mitigate this risk, procurement
planning will incorporate additional time for the review processes.
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Plan. A procurement plan has been prepared using Microsoft Project and is included in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The procurement packaging plan has been prepared taking into
- 57 -



consideration the prospective sources of supply in China and from abroad. For each group of similar
contracts within each category of goods, there will be a single Invitation for Bids (IFB) to be advertised.
Bidders may bid for one or any combinations of the contracts under an IFB. Discounts offered for award of
multiple contracts will be evaluated to arrive at the lowest evaluated cost to the purchaser.
Procurement procedures. The following Bank guidelines will govem all Bank-financed procurement
under the project:
*  For goods. Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999)
*  For the selection of consultants. Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January 1999)
Format of the Documentation. The following formats will apply:
*  Evaluation reports. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form, Procurement of Goods or Works
(dated April 1996, translated into Chinese by MOF May 1997), and Sample Form of Evaluation
Report for Selection of Consultants (dated October 1999).
-  Model Bidding Documents. The Bank-approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents (MBD) (dated
May 1997, prepared by MOF based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents [SBDs]) will be
adopted for all ICB and NCB activities for goods.
-  Project-Specific Document. A model procurement document for goods using shopping procedures
will be prepared and used by the procurement agency.
-  Revisions to Model Bidding Documents. The amendments included in the Bank's updated SBD for
Procurement of Goods (dated January 1995 and revised March 2000 and January 2001), which
have not yet been included in the MBD, dated May 1997, will be incorporated into the bidding
documents used for goods contracts.
Domestic Preference. For goods contracts, qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a preference
equal to 15 percent of the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) price, or the sum of the customs duties and
import tax payable by a non-exempt importer, whichever is less.
Advertisement. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB), No.553 of February 28, 2001, and will be updated every year until all
major ICB procurement activities and major consultant assignments have been completed.
Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs) for all ICB and NCB procurement activities will be published in at
least one newspaper with a national circulation. In addition, the SPNs for contracts estimated to cost more
than $ 10 million will be published in the print version of the UNDB, allowing at least 45 days for bid
preparation (75 days for contracts above $15 million). Similarly, invitations for expressions of interest for
consulting contracts expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent must be advertised in the UNDB of
the print version at least thirty days before the deadline for preparation of the short list.
- 58 -



Procurement Methods (Table A)
A total of $156.3 million of equipment and materials is expected to be financed by the project, using the
following procedures:
*  ICB. About $153.5 million of equipment will be procured using ICB procedures. This represents
98 percent of total equipment purchases. These larger goods contracts will be for track materials,
communication equipment, signaling equipment, traction substation equipment, electrification,
survey and design equipment, permanent-way equipment and precast concrete bridge beams.
*  NCB. Equipment and materials for power supply equipment, environmental protection equipment,
and operation and maintenance equipment estimated to cost between $50,000 and S200,000 per
contract will be procured using NCB procedures, up to an aggregate of $2.6 million.
*  Shopping. Other items or groups of items estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, with an
aggregate amount not exceeding $210,000, will be procured following intemational shopping or
national shopping procedures as stated in Articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the guidelines. International
shopping will be on the basis of the comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers from two or more countries. National shopping will also be on the basis of a comparison
of at least three quotations and may be used where the desired goods are ordinarily available from
more than one source, at competitive prices.
Consulting Services. The value of consulting services to be procured is estimated to be $2.11 million and
will be financed fully by the Bank. TORs of four contracts, each costing about $300,000, have been
reviewed by Bank. For brief description of the four contracts, please see Project Component 2 in Annex 2.
These will be procured under Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. In addition, an
amount of $911,000 is reserved for assignments for other studies and annual seminars to support the
reform of the Chinese railway industry ($700,00 to be used to finance consulting contracts, using QCBS
procedures, with the balance being available to finance contracts for individual consultants).
Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing of up to $16 million may be applied to expenditures made
after November 2001 for the procurement of goods and equipment.
- 59 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.00          0.00        797.63      797.63
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                           153.51          2.57          0.21         175.50     331.79
(153.51)        (2.57)        (0.21)        (0.00)    (156.29)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          2.11          0.00       2.11
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.11)        (0.00)     (2.11)
4. Miscellaneous local costs        0.00            0.00         0.00         69.35       69.35
resettlement, design and           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
construction supervision, etc.
5. Interest during                  0.00           0.00          0.00         79.82       79.82
construction
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00           1.60         0.00        1.60
(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.60)        (0.00)     (1.60)
5. Cost of Locomotives &           0.00            0.00          0.00         19.94       19.94
Rolling Stocks                     (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                           153.51           2.57          3.92        1142.24    1302.24
(153.51)         (2.57)        (3.92)      (0.00)      (160.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes goods to be procured through shopping, consulting services.
- 60 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SF8    LCS        CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms               1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00       1.90
(1.90)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.90)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.21    0.00       0.21
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.21)  (0.00)   (0.21)
Total  1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.21     0.00     2.11
( (1.90)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.21)  (0.00)   (2.11)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works
Not Bank financed
2. Goods
>S200              ICB, Prior Review     64 contracts for $153 51
$50-200             NCB, Post Review         million will be prior
<$50             Shopping, Post Review   reviewed. Post review ratio:
one in three contract>.
3. Services                   Firm >100            QCBS, Prior Review       Aggregate value of
$1.90 million for firms and
Individual >50       Section 5 of Guidelines,      individuals
Prior Review
Individual <50      Section 5 of Guidelines,
Post Review
4. Miscellaneous                _
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    $155.41 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement activities will continue to be managed out of the Beijing office by procurement specialists
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed loan of US$ 160 million would be disbursed over a period of four years, up to the closing
date of December 31, 2005. The allocation of loan proceeds according to expenditure category is outlined
in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods and Equipment                       156.29          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
75% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consulting Services and Training           2.11                          100
Unallocated                                0.00
Total Project Costs                       158.40
Interest during construction       0.00
Front-end fee         1.60
Total                                     160.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawals for the loan account will be made on the basis of SOEs for the following expenditures:
3  Goods contracts of less than $200,000
D  Services provided by consulting firms with contracts of less than $100,000
v  Services provided by individual consultants with contracts of less than $50,000
3  All training activities
Special account:
Authorization, allocation and operation of the special account. To facilitate disbursements, a special
account will be opened with an authorized allocation of $10 mnillion, the estimated average expenditures for
a four-month period.
- 63 -



Attachment to Annex 6
Summary of Deviations of the Chinese Bidding Law
from Bank Guidelines in Respect of ICB Goods Procurement
Funds for procurement. The Bidding Law requires that the purchaser possess or secure sources for the
funds required for the procurement before carrying out bidding for the procurement and that he clearly
specify such informnation in the bidding documents. The Bank has no such requirement.
Advertisement. The Bidding Law allows the invitation for bids to be announced in newspapers and other
media, including information networks or others. The Bank requires advertisement in a national daily
newspaper.
Time for bid preparation and submission. The Bidding Law sets the minimum time for bid preparation
and submission as 20 days. The Bank generally requires 30 days for NCB contracts and 45 days for ICB
contracts.
Minimum number of bids. The Bidding Law requires re-bidding if fewer than three bids are received. The
Bank allows evaluation of a single bid.
Bid evaluation. The Bidding Law allows bids to be evaluated by scoring method and stipulates that a bid
of less than cost must be rejected. However, the Bidding Law does not have provisions for determining the
cost. This approach is unacceptable to the Bank. Evaluation must be on the basis of price.
-64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: National Railway Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            04/16/1999                   04/16/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    06/15/2001                   11/27/2001
Negotiations                                   07/16/2001                   12/10/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/01/2001                  05/31/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Railways, Beijing
Preparation assistance:
PRD Grant Fund: TF029623 (Recipient-Executed Part) - US$736,100, TF029702 (Bank-Executed
Part) - US$178,690
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Richard G. Scurfield              Task Team Leader from August, 2000 to Board, TUJDTR
Hennie Deboeck                    Task Team Leader until August, 2000, EASTR
Karin Budin                       Peer Reviewer, TUDTR
Robin Carruthers                  Economic Analysis, EASTR
Yi Dong                           Disbursements, EACCF
Daniel Gibson                     Resettlement, EASES
R. I. Gopalkrishnan               Procurement, EAPCO
Liu Yi-Ling                       Disbursements, LOAG3
Liu Zhefu                         Resettlement, EACCF
Hoi-chan Nguyen                   Legal, LEGOP
Teresita Ortega                   Program Assistant, EASTR
Mirtha Pokomy                     Peer Reviewer, LCSFT
Jorge Rebelo                      Peer Reviewer, LCSFT
Tony Shen                         Financial Management, EACCF
Shao Yuping                       Operations and Financial Analysis, EACCF
Anil Somani                       Environment, EASES
Jitendra Sondhi                   Engineering, Consultant
Richard Spero                     Transport Economics, Consultant
Louis Stanley Thompson            Railway Reform and Restructuring, TUDTR
Wang Chaogang                     Social Assessment, EACCF
Yang Dawei                        Procurement Assessment, EACCF
Li Xiaoping                       Procurement, EACCF
Dong Wenyan                       Program Assistant, EACCF
-65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: National Railway Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Bao-Lan Line and Technical Assistance
1. Project Implementation Plan, June 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Aide Memoire, May 6,1999
2. Aide Memoire, November 19, 1999
3. Railway Reform in China: The Great Railway Challenge, October 14, 1999
4. MOR's Reform Program, December 2, 1999
5. Mission Report of Bao-Lan Railway Line, February 11, 2000
6. Aide Memoire, September 29, 2000
C. Other
Bao-Lan Line
Feasibility Studies
1. The Feasibility Study of the Newly-Built Second Line on Baoji-Lanzhou Section of
Lianyungang-Lanzhou Railway, The First Survey and Design Institute of Ministry of Railways, July
1999
2. The Feasibility Study of the Newly-Built Second Line on Baoji-Lanzhou Section of
Lianyungang-Lanzhou Railway, The First Survey and Design Institute of Ministry of Railways,
December 1999
3. Feasibility Study Report, The First Survey and Design Institute of Ministry of Railway, April 2000
4. The Feasibility Study of the Proposed New Second Line on Baoji-Lanzhou Section of
Lianyungang-Lanzhou Railway, The First Survey and Design Institute of Ministry of Railways,
August 2000
Environment
I . Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Academy of Railway Science of the Ministry of Railway,
March 2000
2. Environmental Action Plan (EAP), Academy of Railway Science of the Ministry of Railways, March
2000
3. Environment Monitoring Report, Beijing OASIS Environment Protection Technology Co. Ltd., August
2000
4. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), The Center of Environmental Assessment and Engineering of
the Scientific Research Institute, Railway Department of the Ministry of Railways, August 2000
5. Environmental Action Plan (EAP), The Center of Environmental Assessment and Engineering of the
Scientific Research Institute, Railway Department of the Ministry of Railways, August 2000
6. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and EA Summary, The
Center of Environmental Evaluation and Engineering of the Research Academy of Railway Sciences of
the Ministry of Railways, AMEC Earth & Environmental Limited, March 2001
- 66 -



Resettlement Action Plans
1. Resettlement Action Plan for Baoji-Lanzhou, Ministry of Railways, (no date, received in May 2000)
2. An Evaluation Report on the Social Impact of the Closed-Down Rail Stations along
Weishuiyu--Lanzhou Section of Baoji --Lanzhou Railway Line (The Third Version), Research Institute
of Foreign Capital Introduction & Utilization of Southwest Jiaotong University, August 18, 2000
3. Resettlement Action Plan for Baoji-Lanzhou (fifth draft), Ministry of Railways, August 18, 2000
4. Resettlement Action Plan for Baoji-Lanzhou (eighth draft), November 20, 2000
Economic and Financial Reports
1. The Tables of Forecast Freight and Passenger Traffic, and Equipment Acquisition Schedule(With
and Without Bao-Lan line)
2. Assumption for Financial Analysis
3. Forecast Financial Statements (Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Sources and Applications of Fund
Statement)
Performance Indicators
1. Performance Indicators, February 2001
MOR Information
1. Actual and Forecast Income Statement of Transport Sector of MOR (1993-2005)
Reform in the Kunming Administration (Passenger Transport Enterprise)
1. Specific information regarding aspects of the Kunming PTE component to be financed under the
project, December 1999
*Including electronic files
- 67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: National Railway Project
07-Dec-200 1
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P045915       2001 Urumqi Urban Transport                            100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      89.12      19.57      0.00
P058845       2001 Jiangxi II Hwy                                    200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     200.00       0.00       0.00
P047345       2001 CH-HUAI RPVER POLLUTION CONTROL                   105.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00     105.50       0.00      0.00
P056596       2001 Shijiazhuang Urban Transport                      100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     100.00      18.53      0.00
P056516       2001 WATER CONSERVATION                                 74.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      70.20       6.60       0.00
P056199       2001 Third Inland Waterways                            100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     100.00       0.83       0.00
P051859       2001 CH-LIAO RIVER BA9N                                100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     100.00       0.00       0.00
P058844       2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                                150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     136.83       1.50      0.00
P058843       2000 Guangxi Highway                                   200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     185.22      29.55      0.00
P049436       2000 CN-CHONGOING URBAN ENVIRCNMENT                    200.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     196.00      14.83       0.00
P064730       2000 Yangtze Dke Strengthening Project                 210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     198.90      60.98       0.00
P056424       2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STCRA                              320.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     318.00      34.93       0.00
P045910       2000 CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        150.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     142.06      12.40       0.00
P045264       2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                               93.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00      69.02      24.44       0.00
P042109       2000 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                         349.00       0.00                25.00       0.00     358.15      58.06       0.00
P049665        1999 ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                                90.00      30.00                  0.00      0.00      63.68       5.36       0.00
P003653        1999 Container Transport                               71.00       0.00                 0.00       3.13      53.08      55.68       0.00
P050036       1999 Anhui Provinrial Hwy                              200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     133.07      35.12       0.00
P043933        1999 CH-SICHUAN URBAN ENMARONMENT                     150.00       2.00                 0.00       0.00     100.88      23.69       2.33
P051705        1999 Fujiang 11 Highway                               200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     156.95      74.20       0.00
P046564       1999 Gansu & Inner Mongola Poverty Reducion             60.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00     119.71      37.53       0.00
P046829       1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                      100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      13.00      60.00       0.00
P046051       1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                             20.00      50.00                  0.00      0.00      32.21      26.69       0.00
P041890       1999 Liaoning Urban Transport                          150.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      91.63      46.77       0.00
P042299       1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                 10.00      35.00                  0.00      0.00      39.03       -3.43      0.00
P036953       1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                       10.00      50.00                  0.00      0.00      48.33       9.57       0.00
P051856        1999 ACCCUJNTING REFORM & DEVELOPMENT                  27.40       5.60                  0.00      0.00      23.42      21.24       0.00
P056216        1999 LOESS PLATEAU II                                 100.00      50.00                  0.00      0.00     109.44      53.54       0.00
P057352       1999 CN-RURAL VATER SUPPLY IV                           16.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00      38.57      13.24       0.00
P058308       1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                               0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00       4.26       4.12       0.00
P038121       1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                        0.00       0.00                 35.00      0.00      26.97       9.33       0.00
P063123       1999 YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                               40.00      40.00                  0.00       0.00      1.90       2.87       2.87
P060270        1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORM LN                             o.Do       5.00                  0.00       0.00      4.64       6.66       0.00
P041268        1999 Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                             350.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     241.35      54.69       0.00
P051888        1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                              80.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00      73.69      28.54       0.00
P045788        1998 Tn-Provindal Hwy                                 230.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     115.59      59.63       0.00
P037859        1998 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                               0.00       0.00                 22.00      0.00       7.72      20.61       0.00
P003539        1998 SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DEV.               100.00       O.00                  0.00      0.00      63.99      32.33       0.00
P036949        1998 Nat Hwy3-Hube                                    250.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      93.51       3.51       0.00
P003566       1998 CN-BASIC HEAL1H (HLTH8)                             0.00      85.00                 0.00       0.00      49.72      19.33       0.00
P035698        1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00       0.00                  0.00     100.00    185.20     196.45       1.16
P036414        1998 CH-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      72.00      20.00                  0.00      0.00      82.52      42.08       0.00
P040185       1998 CH-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                            95.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      37.56      26.83       0.00
P049700        1998 IAJL-2                                           300.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      119.09     36.11       0.00
P003606        1998 ENERGYCONSERVATION                                63,00       0.00                 22.00      0.00      52.97      11.49       0.00
P003619        1998 2nd Inland Waterways                             123.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      9362       62.06       0.00
P051736        1998 E. CHINAJJIANGSU PWR                             250.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      176.31    172.81     156.09
P046952        1998 FOREST.DEV.POORAR                                100.00     100.00                  0.00       0.00     115.04     -15.00     51.12
P003614        1998 Guangzhou City Transport                         200.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     130.81     120.27      0.00
P046563        1998 TARIMBASIN II                                     90.00      60.00                  0.00       2.67     82.78      48.87       0.00
P003591        1998 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                             150.00       0.00                  0.00      80.91      8.45      64.96       8.24
P036952        1997 CN-BASIC ED. IV                                    0.00      85.00                 0.00       0.00       2.56       4.55       0.00
P036405        1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                             400.00       0.00                  0.00      75.00     60.51      93.35      25.35
- 68 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                     GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Revd
P003635       1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                            10.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00       2.88       3.85       0.00
P035693       1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                                 0.00       0.00                32.80       0.00       9.97      32.81       0.00
P003590       1997 (INBA MCUNTAINS POvERTY REDUCTION                  30.00     150.00                 0.00       0.00      85.15      81.73       0.00
P003350       1997 TUOKETUO POWERAINNER                              400.00       0.00                 0.00     102.50     205.44     271.01      17.54
P044485       1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                               400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     283.15     125.55      27.70
P003643       1997 Xinjiang Hwy 8                                    300.00       0.00                 0.00      60.00      64.06     117.06      -7.61
P003637       1997 CH-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                         0.00      70.00                 0.00       0.00      28.82      22.07      18.83
P003654       1997 Nat Hwy2lHunan-Guangdong                          400.00       00.                  0.00       0.00     150.69     127.36       0.00
P034081       1997 XLAOLANGDC MULTI, 8                               430.0        0.00                 0.00       0.00      92.54     118.76       0.00
P038988       1997 HEILCNGJIANGADP                                   120.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      36.56      28.98       0.00
P040513       1996 2nd Henan Proy Hwy                                210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     103.30      96.64     -15.03
P003646       1996 CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                           170.00       0.00                 0.00     164.82       3.00     164.49       2.28
P003569       1996 Shanghai-Zhejiang Hwy                             260.00       0.00                 0.00      53.34      17.32      70.65      14.28
P003602       1996 CH.HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        125.00      25.00                 0.00      28.32      64.60      93.74      32.28
P003589       1996 CN-DISEASEPREVENTION (HLTH7)                        0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00      18.48      29.30       0.00
P003638       1996 SEEDSSECTORCOMMER.                                 80.00      20.00                 0.00       9.40      21.42      25.98       0.00
P003594       1996 GANSU HEXI CCRRIDOR                                60.00      90.00                 0.00       0.00      97.62      56.21       0.00
P003599        1996 CH-YUNNAN ENVIRCNMENT PROJECT                    125.00      25.00                 0.00       0.00     105.80      86.66      29.69
P003563       1996 ANIMAL FEED                                       150.00       0.00                 0.00      127.50      2.70     130.20       2.46
P003507       1996 ERTANHYDRO II                                     400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       1.11       6.75       0.00
P034618       1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                               10.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00      12.58      14.87       0.00
P036950       1996 CN-BASICED.POORIII                                  0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00       0.29       8.17       0.00
P003652       1996 2nd Shaanxi Prov Hwy                              210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      52.68      52.68       0.00
P003649       1996 SHANXIPOVERTYALLEV                                  0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00      13.16      16.83       0.00
P003648       1996 CH-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE II                           250.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     101.90      98.70       0.00
P003603       1995 CH-ENTERPRISEHOUSING& SOC SEC REF                 275.00      75.00                 0.00      20.00     110.77     129.53      21.42
P003600       1995 CN-TECFINOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                        200.00       0.00                 0.00       3.02      38.13      40.15       0.00
P003598       1995 CH-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                           110.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      24.75      24.75       4.01
P003596       1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                               100.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00       3.03       5.60       0.00
P003585       1995 SHENYANG IND REFORM                               175.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      41.52      41.19       0.00
P003571       1995 RAILWAYS VII                                      400.00       0.00                 0.00      29.00     166.25     175.09     119.10
P003402       1995 NATURE RESERVE MGMT                                 0.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       0.96       2.41       0.00
P036041       1995 FISCAL& TAX REF. &                                 25.00      25.00                 0.00       0.00       5.61       8.11       6.97
P003647        1995 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                0.00      10.00                 0.00       0.00       4.66       5.41       0.00
P003639       1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                               47.50     200.00                 0.00       0.00      29.38      54.25       0.00
P003642       1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                               400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      65.85      64.01       0.00
P036947       1995 SICHUAN TRANSMISSICN                              270.00       0.00                 0.00      65.00      45.35     110.35       6.67
P003634       1995 CN-MATERNAL CHLD HEAL1(HLTH6)                       0.00      90.00                 0.00        0.00      4.44       7.76       0.00
P003593       1994 SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                  0.00     205.00                 0.00       0.00       7.02       1.66       0.00
P003586       1994 CH-SHANGHAI ENVIRCNMENTPROJECT                    160.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      36.24      36.24      19.47
P003641       1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                              350.00       0.00                 0.00       11.50      4.55      16.05      -0.21
P003644        1994 XIADLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                            0.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00      10.58       8.63       0.00
P003609       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEJ & CONSERVATION                    255.00       0.00                10.00       0.00      56.81      56.81       0.00
P003404       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                                0.00       0.00                10.00       0.00       0.02       0.78       0.00
P003626       1994 Fujian Prov Highway                               140.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      31.05      31.05      30.25
P003540       1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                       0.00     150.00                 0.00       0.00       2.81      -3.52       0.00
P003557       1994 FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                 0.00     200.00                18.40       0.00       1.94       6.13       0.96
P003595       1994 RED SCLS I DEVELCP                                  0.00     150.00                 0.00        0.00     13.03       8.85       9.38
P003473        1993 CH-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELCPMENT                0.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00       6.42       6.80       6.81
P003616       1993 TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                               300.00       0.00                 0.00       17.00     21.67      38.41       0.00
P003623       1993 FINANCIALSECTORT.A                                  0.00      60.00                 0.00       0.00       8.99       3.48       3.48
P003627       1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                              325.00     16.00                  0.00       0.00      52.33      53.16      34.83
P003597       1993 TAIHUBASINFLOODCO                                 100.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00       3.17      .1.11      -1.11
P003632       1993 CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                             0.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00       6.56       7.62       7.30
P003592       1993 REF. INSTL.& PREINV                                 0.00      50.00                 0.00        0.00      4.24       4.87       0.00
- 69 -



Differenre between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY  Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                   GEF      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Re i'd
P003624       1992 CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES(HLTH5)                     0.00    129.60                0.00        0.00       3.88      0.26       0.22
Total:   14621.90    3482.20             175.20      953.10    7610.41    4673.76    639.1E
- 70 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval       Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999/00           Bank of Shanghai              0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00
1996              Beijing Hormel                3.21    0.50    0.00    2.75    3.21    0.50    0.00    2.75
1998/00           CIG Holdings PLC              0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Caltex Ocean                 21.00    0.00    0.00   36.82   21.00    0.00    0.00   36.82
1998              Chengdu Huarong               7.40    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00
1998              Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94        China Bicycles                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              China Walden Mgt              0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994              China Walden Ven              0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                  0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999              Dujiangyan                   25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    6.90    0.00    0.00    8.10
1995              Dupont Suzhou                15.58    4.15    0.00   20.80   15.58    4.15    0.00   20.80
1994              Dynanic Fund                  0.00   10.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.35    0.00    0.00
2000              Elkem Carbon                  6.30    1.70    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Hansom                        0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996              Jingyang                     35.00    0.00    0.00   76.92   35.00    0.00    0.00   76.92
1998              Leshan Scana                  6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996              Nanjing Kumho                 8.76    3.81    0.00   24.91    8.76    3.81    0.00   24.91
2001              New China Life                0.00   30.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00
1995              Newbridge Inv.                0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997              Ningbo                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              OrientFinance                11.43    0.00    0.00   14.29   11.43    0.00    0.00   14.29
1997/00           PTP Holdings                  0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997              PTP Hubei                    12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1996              Pacific Ports                 0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.54    0.00    0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC                 1.35    0.00    0.00    1.35    1.35    0.00    0.00    1.35
2000              SSIF                          0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00
1998              Shanghai Krupp               30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    6.07    0.00    0.00   13.93
1999              Shanxi                       19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.52    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
2001              Sino-Forest                  25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC                   14.67    2.48    0.00   14.80   14.67    2.48    0.00   14.80
1998              WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Weihai Weidongri              2.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Yantai Cement                 8.30    1.95    0.00    4.43    8.30    1.95    0.00    4.43
1998              Zhen Jing                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      262.56  100.02    0.00  332.25   168.16   80.73    0.00  244.48
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                 0.00      0.00     0.00      1.50
2000              Wan Jie Hospital                15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              CIMIC Tile                      15.00     5.00      0.00    15.00
2000              SBCF I                           0.00     0.00     15.00     0.00
2000              Meijing                          9.00     0.00      0.00     7.30
2000              CIG Zhapu                       6.00      5.00      0.00     0.00
- 71 -



2001              Sino-Forest                     25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              Minsheng                         0.00    23.50      0.00     0.00
2001              Peak Pacific                    25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001              NCCB                             0.00     0.00     26.58     0.00
2001              Maanshan Carbon                  9.00     0.00      2.00     5.00
2001              AACI                             0.00     0.00      2.00     0.00
2001              Daning Coal                      0.00     0.00      0.00    15.00
Total Pending Commitment:     104.00    33.50     45.58    43.80
- 72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: National Railway Project
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &   middle-
China    Pacific   Income       Development dlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      1,262.5     1,853      2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$1                      840     1t060       1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     1,061.2     1,964     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                           1.0       1.1        1.0
Labor force (%)                                          1.2       1.4        1.3     GNI                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)     5
Urban Dopulation (% of totaf population)                 36         35        42
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                         70         69        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1, 000 live births)                30         35        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                9         13        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     75         75        80
Illiteracy (% of population e.qe 15+)                    16         14        15
Gross primarv enrollment (%of school-ape population)    123        119       114             Chrna
Male                                                  123        121       116           -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                123        121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratlos'
GOP (US$ billions)                           216.2    363.0      997.5   1,076.9
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 35.2     34.7       37.2       37.3
Exports of qoods and services/GDP              7.6      17.5      22.0      25.9                      Trade
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                    34.9      37.9      40.1       39.9
Gross national savinqslGDP                    34.9     38.3       38.7      39.2
Current account balancelGDP                   -0.4      3.8        1.6        1.9     Domestic                     Investment
Interest pavments/GDP                          0.2      0.7        0.6        0.7     svns
Total debtlGDP                                  ..    15.2        15.5       13.9
Total debt service/exports                     8.0       9.9       9.0        7.4
Present value of debtGDP                         ..        .      13.5
Present value of debtUexports                   ..        ..      58.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
iaveraqe annual growth)
GDP                                  10.1     10.3      7.1        7.9       7.4          -     China
GDP per capita                        8.5      9.2      6.1        7.2        6.7               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services        11.0     16.5      13.9      32.0       11.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           20
Aqriculture                                   30.1      27.0      17.6       15.9
Industry                                      48.5     41.6       49.4      50.9    15
Manufacturinq                               40.5      32.9       33.6      34.5    10
Services                                      21.4      31.3      32.9       33.2
Private consumption                           50.5     49.9       47.4      47.0             95   96   97   98   99   00
General government consumption                14.6      12.1      12.5       13.1                     GDI         GDP
Imports of goods and services                  7.9      14.3      19.1      23.2
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports 4%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                    5.9      4.1        2.8        2.4    40
IndustrV                                      11.1     13.7        8.1        9.6     3
Manufacturinq                               11.1      13.4        8.3       9.7    20.
Services                                      13.5      9.0        7.5        7.8    iso  7                             r
Private consumption                            9.4       8.8       2.6        6.0                            _
General government consumption                 9.8      9.4        8.4       12.0    -10      5 9S             g    99   oo
Gross domestic investment                     10.8      11.6       3.2        7.9                   Exports    t.Impoers
Imports of aoods and services                  9.1     16.1       22.3      24.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missino the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 73 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                              6.0      3.1       -1.4      0.4    20
Impliait GDP deflator                        5.6      5.5       -2.2      0.9            _
Government finance                                                                 G
(% of GDP, includes current grants)9                                                             6    97     B    9 
Current revenue                             25.7    19.7        15.0     15.3    10
Current budget balance                         ..     3.0        1.3      0.6            -     GDP deflator    *  CP1
Overall surplus/deficit                      -1.5    -0.6       -4.0     -3.6     __________________
TRADE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       18,270   62,091    194,931  249,210    30,000
Food                                      2,985    6,609    10,458   12,282
Fuel                                      4,280    5,237     4,659    7,851     200.0oo
Manufactures                              9,005   46,205   174,990  223,752
Total imports (cif)                       20,017   53,345   165,699  225,097
Food                                      2,927    3,335     3,619    4,758     150,5w 00L  
Fuel and energy                            203    1,272      8,912   26,037
Capital goods                             5,119   16,845    69,469   91,934         r      ,      _    .0_         ,
94  95  93  97  98  99  00
Export price index (1995=100)                 25       78        69        67
Import price index (1995=100)                 22       80        71       75                 U Exports       Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    116       97        98        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(IUS$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             20,167   67,971   218,496  279,561      s
Imports of goods and services             20,859   55,537   189,799  250,688
Resource balance                            -692   12,433    28,697   28,873
Net income                                  -100    1,055   -17,973  -14,666      3
Net current transfers                         ..      274     4,943    6,311      2
Current account balance                     -792   13,762    15,668   20,519      1 -     -          I    i . .
Financing items (net)                         ..  -7,673    -7,163   -9,971       a -__
Changes in net reserves                       ..  -6,089    -8,505  -10,548          94   95  9r   97   99   99   00
Memo:
Reserves includinp qold (US$ millions)        ..  16,963   161,404  171,753
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             2.1      5.1        8.2      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  55,301    154,223   149,800
IBRI D                                            2,865    10,400    11,118
(DA                                         G. 17174                                                A:3,016  8,907    8,771  .  ,B:,771
Total debt service                         1,652    7,057    20,655   21,728                     i2,ss6
IBRD                                        ..    416       1,142    1,291
IDA                                          ..      19       117       131
Composition of net resource flows                                                          .g        g       _    E: 28,510
Official grants                              7      143       201       147
Official creditors                          ..   1,727       1,706    1,928
Private creditors                           ..       ..   -1,854      1,985
Foreign direct investment                   57    3,487    41,015   42,096
Portfolio equity                             0        0      1,808    7,814           F 8,61
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..    953       2,097     1,536     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..   1,098       1,756    1,907     B-IDA    D -Otherrmultilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                        ..    216         558       644     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     ..    882       1,198    1,263
Interest payments                           ..    219         701       778
Net transfers                               ..    663         497       485
Development Economics                                                                                                9/6/01
- 74 -



Additional
Annex 11
The Reform Program for the Ministry of Railways (MOR) of China
CHINA: NATIONAL RAILWAY
Discussions on railway reform between the Ministry of Railways of China (MOR) and the State Council
have intensified over the past year. In early 2000, MOR presented an initial set ofproposals to the State
Council. MOR responded to the council's questions and the broad approach to railway restructuring has
been established. Since then, MOR has begun to implement many aspects of the plan. The railway
restructuring approach should be understood as a framework for future decision-making. The direction
MOR will take and the issues it faces are just now taking shape, and it is not possible to address all the
issues that will emerge in the next decade. However, as the following quotes from the 10th Five Year
Plan make clear, refonn of the railways is now an official policy of the Government of China.
Premier Zhu Rongji's Report on the Outline of the 10th Five-Year Plan For National
Economic And Social Development (Delivered at the Fourth Session of the Ninth National
People's Congress on March 5, 2001)
VII. Further Deepening Reforms and Opening Wider to the Outside World
We need to further reform the management systems of industries such as electricity, railways, civil aviation
and telecommunications, and introduce a mechanism for competition. The reforms needs to improve the
relations between the government and enterprise so as to meet the requirements of a socialist market
economy.
The Outline of the 10th Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development (
Approved by the Fourth Session of the Ninth National People's Congress on March 15,
2001)
From Chapter 7, Intensifying Construction of Infrastructure Facilities and Improving the Distributions and
Structures:
To accelerate the reform of transportation management system and operation mechanism with the core
focus on the separation of the government function and the enterprise function, railways will carry out
separation of infrastructure and transport operation "....
The 10th Five-Year Plan For China Railways (Published by MOR on June 12, 2001)
From I1I. Instruction Policy and Strategy Target of the Railways Development for the Tenth Five- Years
Strategy Target of the Railways Development for the Tenth Five- Years: .... Make significant progress on
the separation of the functions of the government and the enterprise, the separation of infrastructure and
transport operation, introduction of the competition, and strengthen monitoring and management.
- 75 -



From IV. Railways Development Plan for the Tenth Five-Years
5. Deepen transportation system reform: According to the overall reform view of "the separation of the
functions of the government and the enterprise, the separation of infrastructure and transport operation,
introduction of the competition, and strengthen monitoring and management", accelerate to deepen the
railways reform, establish the transportation management system and operation mechanism which meet
the requirements of a socialist market economy.
EXISTING PROBLEMS
Confusion Over State Versus Enterprise Roles. Three years ago, China had one of the few remaining
monolithic state railway ministries (Russia and India also still operate railway ministries). There are no
remaining ministries of railways in market economies. The most common model is to have govermnent
functions performed by another ministry (usually the ministry of transport), while transport operations are
performed by rail enterprises (usually joint stock companies operating under commercial law). MOR's
confusion over the respective roles of govenmment oversight and regulation and the commercial function has
come to mean that neither is done well.
MOR's Geographically-based Structure. Rail operations in China currently are performed by 14
administrations (and over 50 subadministrations), each of which occupies a distinct territory. While most
railway traffic must be exchanged between or among two or more administrations, most of the railway's
resources (locomotives and track maintenance equipment, for example) are under the control of individual
administrations and subadministrations. Moreover, there is no intrarail competition. Consequently, service
suffers and costs go up at rail interchange points. In addition, the multiplicity of administrations and
subadministrations creates excessive costs due to duplicative management functions and layers.
Internal Organization of Adniinistrations and Subadministrations. A legacy of the planned economy is
that the operating units were organized to provide transport according to plan, not to define and serve the
needs of customers. The planning-style production cost center units (locomotive shops, wagon shops, civil
engineering, electrical engineering, transport management) will give way to market-defined, commercial
units (regional passengers, national passengers, freight, etc., each having full control over its operating
assets). This will permit commercial rather than production objectives.
Imposed Social Functions. The planned economy offered a large nurnber of cross-subsidies under which
losses on social activities were supported by excess profits on captive customers. In the past, the
knowledge about costs was so limited that the cross-subsidies could not be measured, nor with prices
controlled could MOR take action to reduce social losses. As railways in China enter a market context in
which they face stiff competition from other transport modes, the railways will not be able to afford social
finctions and will have to establish a rate-setting regime that permits distinguishing between commercial
and social activities. Railways can provide comnmercial services, and government will define and support
social activities through public service obligation (PSO) payments. The social element includes services
for students and special goods; it may also include investments to build lines in rural areas of China where
the curTent population density will not immediately support rail construction.
- 76 -



THE GUIDELINES FOR CHANGE
Restructuring must foster:
* Separation and clarification of the respective roles of government and commercial enterprise
* Restructuring of transport enterprises to permit meeting market needs rather than production
targets
* Adoption by all new enterprises of a commercial approach to operations so as to achieve
market-oriented results
* Attention to a proper regulatory structure for the new enterprises.
THE GENERAL MODEL TO BE FOLLOWED
The guiding concept behind the restructuring will be "up/down" separation, the term that China uses for
what is called infrastructure separation in the European context. The up/down models are similar to those
required by the current European Commission Order 91-440, 2001/12, 2001/13 and 2001/14, and require
either accounting separation of infrastructure costs (with charges for use to operators) or actual
institutional separation of infrastructure provision from operators. MOR has decided to pursue the creation
of infrastructure enterprise(s) (as in the U.K. and Germany) rather than government agencies (as in
Sweden). This general approach also will permit various mixed models, especially in transitional stages.
This is, in effect, the approach in North America and Japan.
CHINESE CHARACTERISTICS
Developing and staging the up/down approach will require evaluating a number of advantages and
disadvantages that concern most countries as well as several factors that are unique to China. The general
issues are clarity of governnent and enterprise functions, market focus, competition versus regulation, and
private/public boundaries. Four issues are specific to China. First, the Chinese rail sector is still expanding
and the Government, with increasing demands on its resources, looks to rail revenues to pay for a
significant portion of the required capital outlays. At the same time, however, when the new lines are
justified by social or strategic considerations rather than by conmmercial needs, public funding may be
required. Second, China's large size and scarcity of infrastructure means that rail services are a critical
part of both the freight and passenger transport networks (56.4 percent of freight ton-km and 35.6 percent
of passenger-km go by rail). Because of the importance of rail traffic, the transition to up/down separation
will have to be conducted with great care to reduce the risk of disrupting service. Third, Chinese railways
still face capacity shortages and surplus demand, so system expansion needs will remain important and
regulatory issues will remain significant. Fourth, the existing technical and managerial standards are below
Western levels, with much of MOR technology resembling 1960s and 1970s practices in the West. The
restructuring effort will have to include upgrading technical and managerial capabilities and information as
well as improving commercial techniques. Fortunately, the Transportation Management Information
System (TMIS) is being completed just as it becomes critically important in supporting improved
management and system analyses.
- 77 -



A STAGED APPROACH
The agreed approach to restructuring encompasses three stages, each of which has a number of tasks.
Each stage could take two to three years (or, based on experience elsewhere, longer).
Stage One-2000 through 2002.
Task one. Each of the four minor administrations (those with no subadministrations) will institutionally
separate their passenger services (forming passenger transport enterprises, or PTEs), while freight will
remain operationally integrated with infrastructure (although an accounting separation will be
approximated). One of the larger administrations (in Guangzhou) is piloting the creation of a PTE in a
more complex environment with subadministrations. All major administrations then will form PTEs
following the experience with the pilots. Passenger services are being separated first because passenger
services make up the minority of railways traffic (nationally, passengers constitute about 20 percent of
MOR traffic), and it will be easier to start with passenger services.
Part of the policy component of the National Railways project will support the formation of the PTE in the
Kunming Railway Administration. The Kunming PTE will pilot PTE establishment and incorporate the
lessons learned from the PTE in Guangzhou. The PTEs will be established by the end of 2001, at first on
an accounting basis and then as rapidly as possible on an institutional basis.
Task two. MOR will develop, test and implement an accounting separation of freight and infrastructure
costs. MOR is concerned about the implications of this step because the national unified freight tariff
structure might be inconsistent with the expectation that infrastructure costs will vary considerably
according to local conditions: this will require analysis of tariffs and infrastructure access formulae. It
seems clear that oversight and regulation of access charges will be required as the infrastructure enterprises
are established. The Bank may assist in the analysis and creation of regulatory functions.
Task three. MOR will analyze the feasibility of specialized freight operating companies to haul, for
example, containers, or oversized or dangerous commodities. These specialized operating companies also
might entail establishing specialized railways to, for example, haul coal. The current
Datong-to-Qinghuangdao operation (and its potential extension) is an example of an operation that
potentially could be set up as a separate company. MOR intends to establish a container company in the
near future.
Task four. Uneconomic branch lines may be separated and made into local joint ventures or independent
entities, or even be privatized or concessioned. If these lines cannot be commercialized, they will either be
discontinued or supported by government as PSOs. The Bank may assist in the analysis of the branch line
issue.
Task five. The feasibility of establishing various options for wagon ownership will be examined. These
options could include central ownership and general use, ownership by the freight transport enterprises
(FTEs), private or shipper ownership, or some combination of all options. MOR intends to establish at
least one freight wagon company in the near future. The Bank will assist in the analysis of the structure of
this company as well as the broader issue of the structure and ownership of the Chinese wagon fleet.
- 78 -



Other tasks previously discussed. Each administration will separate its rail functions from its non-rail
functions. Non-rail functions include commercial activities (stores, restaurants, diversified enterprises) and
social activities (schools, hospitals, housing). In most cases, the social activities will be transferred to
government (national, regional and local), although some activities (schools in very remote areas) may
remain under railway administration control. Also, MOR has granted its non-rail activities (LORIC,
construction companies) independent status. In this case, an independent status means that the activities
become joint stock companies in which the shares are controlled elsewhere in government, and eventually
are sold publicly.
Stage Two - 2003 through 2005
Task one. With the experience gained from the first stage, the 14 separate PTEs will be restructured. To
meet the market structure for passenger travel, enterprises will be regrouped across the current
administrative boundaries. Three to five PTEs for long-haul service and a number of local enterprises will
be created. PTEs may compete with each other if the enterprise design includes overlapping of service
areas. Or, one or more system-wide passenger companies may be created (like Amtrak in the United
States). In addition, outside investors eventually may be brought in as appropriate after the PTEs are
restructured.
Task two. Install FTEs in all administrations on an accounting basis. Because the PTEs already will have
been created, much of the accounting structure already will be in place. Next, as with the PTEs, the FTEs
will be regrouped across the current boundaries. The question of how many FTEs will created has not been
resolved; currently, two to six FTEs are envisioned. Intrarail competition is even more imnportant and
sensitive for freight services than for passenger services. MOR's thinking on how to create and measure
competitive effects has not yet been defined.
Creating both PTEs and FTEs has potential tax implications that will need to be studied. As soon as the
enterprises are actually separated, the infrastructure access payments will no longer be internally sheltered
and will possibly be exposed to taxation. In addition, stage two may have to deal with issues not resolved
from stage one.
Stage Three
The full up/down separation will be completed. The FTEs will be fully institutionally separated from
infrastructure if this appears appropriate after further study. The structure of the FTEs and PTEs will
change to reflect the evolution of the freight and passenger transport market structure. It is also not clear
when private sector involvement in rail freight transport will emerge, although it is clear that private
investment is an objective in principle. Specialized companies (such as for containers) may be the first
privately invested operators on public infrastructure, and it is likely that private ownership of freight
wagons will be another early entry for the private sector.
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 12
The Reform Process in the Chinese Railways
CHINA: NATIONAL RAILWAY
The China Railways group (CR) was founded under the overall tutelage of the Ministry of Railways of
China (MOR). This Annex will use the term MOR to describe the Railway Ministry employees in Beijing
who perform a series of oversight, regulatory and coordinating roles vis-a-vis the 14 regionally based
administrations (collectively called the China Railways Group or CR) which are responsible for operating
the system.
MOR constitutes one of the largest production organizations in the world. It employs 3.2 million people, or
about one-third of all the rail employees in the world. As is common in planned economies, about half of
these employees are engaged in a vast range of social, industrial and commercial activities outside the rail
operational sphere. The traffic of the CR group is substantial. As of 1999, its freight volume amounted to
1,181 billion ton-km (only the U.S. railway network hauls more) and accounted for just over half of all
domestic freight traffic volume. CR passenger traffic in 1999 was equal to 375 billion passenger-km
(along with India, the world's largest) and represented well over a third of the national total by all modes.
By these measures, therefore, CR constitutes one of the most significant railways in the world.
As China began to make a transition to the "socialist market" economy, however, GOC realized that the
organization of both CR and MOR would need to be modified. Elaboration of the strategy for change has
been long and detailed. The Bank has supported the process of railway reform in the Railways VI and
Railways VII projects and a number of seminars, including discussions held in Beijing (February 1996) and
Kunming (November 1996) and two Railway Roundtables held in Vienna (September 1990 and October
1997). The Bank also sponsored at least three reform seminars in Beijing between 1993 and 1995. MOR
acknowledges that the Bank's involvement has had a positive effect on railway reform in China.
Because of the critical transport and political roles played by the CR group, the reforn process has rightly
been conducted slowly and cautiously. At the same time, however, CR's market position has declined,
partly because of improvements in the highway network and partly because of MOR's lack of ability to
identify or respond to market forces. This decline, in turn, has stimulated reform initiatives-a process that
appears to be gaining momentum. The general direction of change is emerging. The purpose of the Bank's
missions over the past two years has been to gauge the current status of the reform program and to define
how the program can be supported using Railways VII and National Railways project funding.
Until the reforms began, the railway system in China was organized on three levels. MOR was the central
point of contact between Government and railway operations. MOR received plan targets, prepared
budgets, directed operational and management policies, and oversaw the implementation of Government
orders. MOR also managed directly a number of large industrial activities such as locomotive production
and railway construction and managed directly some social services such as central universities. The
administrations (traditionally there were 12, now there are 14) are regionally based and are the actual
operators of rail service and of certain industrial activities and are the suppliers of social services such as
schools and hospitals. Most of the administrations were divided into regional sub-administrations to which
were delegated the performance of most of the activities of the administrations.
- 80 -



Until about a decade ago, the administrations were effectively cost centers, totally focused on system
management, with all revenues collected and distributed at the MOR level. More recently, the
administrations have been converted into "accounting centers" in which many of the costs of operation have
been assigned to the administrations, and they have been allowed to "keep" their revenues based on a
complex system of division of revenues among administrations based on formulae developed and
implemented by MOR. In turn, the administrations have made their sub-administrations into profit centers
using allocation methods similar to those provided by MOR.
Between 1994 and 1999, although CR recorded a Yuan 9.4 billion increase in operating income (revenues
less operating expenses), the gain was entirely offset by equal growth in non-operating outlays, of which 90
percent relates to the cost of interest. Thus, the sharp jump in interest expenses has had the effect of
dissipating whatever gains CR has been able to achieve from increased revenues (primarily attributable to
rate increases rather than traffic growth). To illustrate: as of 1994, almost 70 percent of operating income
dropped to the bottom line, with only 30 percent allocated to pay for non-operating (mainly interest) costs.
By 1999, however, only about half of operating income was being reflected in the bottom line net income as
an almost identical proportion was being utilized to cover non-operating outlays. Under these conditions,
net income has not changed since 1994 (from Yuan 25.3 billion to Yuan 25.8 billion).
By most measures of physical productivity, CR very effectively played its assigned role as the backbone of
the Chinese transport system during the years of economic planning. Traffic density (converted tons-km
per km of line) and output per locomotive (CT-km per locomotive) in China are the highest in the world.
CR's output per freight wagon (ton-km per wagon) is second only to the United States', where wagons are
larger and axle-loads higher. The coming of the socialist market has brought with it the realization that a
different organization will be needed if China's transport network is to continue to perform under the new
conditions: the monolith must evolve.
Railways never change rapidly under the most favorable of conditions; sheer size and complexity, vested
interests, political sensitivities, entrenched mentalities, diffused legal rights - all combine to yield an
inherently ponderous process. The time from Penn Central bankruptcy to the re-privatization of its
successor (Conrail) took 17 years and eight billion dollars. The restructuring of British Rail and Japanese
National Railways was similarly time-consuming (and money-consuming). The restructuring of the CR
group of railways will be, if anything, even more difficult and economically risky than any of these.
Acknowledging this, MOR has moved forward (more quickly than expected one year ago) with reshaping
of the CR group. Though many of the details remain to be developed, the broad shape of the restructuring
and reform is now emerging as expressed in four slogans: Separation of Government Function and
Enterprise Operation; Up/Down Separation, Market Orientation and Regulation.
Separation of the government and enterprise functions
By the emerging defliition, MOR is "govemment" and the administrations, sub-administrations and the
MOR level industrial functions are "enterprises." Officially, in 1999, the central staff of MOR was cut
from 809 to 400, and the number of departments and divisions has been cut by 30 to 40 percent. In fact,
many of the staff have been transferred to new "organizations" such as the Centralized Railway Transport
Commanding (dispatching) Center and the Railway Construction Management Center which will provide
centralized services but not with "government" employees. The remnants of MOR will have a delimited set
of functions related to regulation, centralized oversight and coordination, and management of central
Government investment, including:
- 81 -



* Development of strategy for the rail sector within the Chinese transport system.
* Planning for development of the railway network and allocation of the funds collected by the
"construction surcharge," (a flat per tkm charge in addition to commodity and distance based tariff
rates) supplemented by loans from domestic policy banks as well as international debt instruments
from the World Bank, the ADB, and various national entities.
* Railway construction management (later to be established as a separate, asset management
company).
* Technical standardization and policies to facilitate interchange among the new PTEs and FTEs.
* Planning and assistance to railway restructuring.
*   Financial management services support to the railway sector including initiating proposals for
tariff changes subject to SCTC approval. In addition, MOR will establish and oversee the system
whereby revenues collected on freight and passenger traffic that crosses PTE or FTE boundaries
are divided among the enterprises involved (current plans call for the originating PTE or FTE to
retain all revenue while paying to forwarding PTEs or FTEs an access fee based on type of track
and speed of train).
*   Managing the national railway command center, which will implement integrated national train
scheduling and dispatching.
*   For the near future, MOR will remain the owner of all freight wagons and will have the
responsibility to ensure an adequate wagon supply (at least 95 percent of the wagons needed).
FTEs will pay for wagon usage (currently 55 Yuan/day). MOR is evaluating the establishment of
separate wagon ownership companies, including a mix of FTE, central and perhaps private
ownership.
* Decentralization of selected universities to local authorities.
* Intemational cooperation and relations.
*  Public security and safety.
* Special transport operations of a national character.
* Propaganda, and other functions as assigned.
PTEs and FTEs will acquire corresponding functions and responsibilities. In effect, they will be given
somewhat broader authority to manage their territory, subject to the following constraints:
*   They will "own" some of the assets assigned to them (locomotives, passenger coaches, non-rail
activities) and they have full rights to operate, improve and dispose of them. They have the duty to
ensure that the full value of the assets entrusted to them remains within the enterprise.
* They will be expected to meet individual profitability targets set for them.
* Meeting accountability targets, ensuring public safety and paying taxes that their "income"
generates.
*   Subject to MOR's regulatory approval, PTEs and FTEs will have the right to increase tariffs so
long as they are below the maximum level established nationwide by MOR/SDPC for certain train
services.
*   For locomotives and for passenger coaches, PTEs and FTEs will have full control over their
procurement spending, and (after a short transition period), former enterprises will have no favored
position for supply of equipment.
- 82 -



At least one major issue remains unresolved as the separation process proceeds. MOR is well aware, as a
result of its examination of foreign experience, that it is probably saddled with a number of services, "hard
class" passengers and provincial freight that lose money. This burden is likely to emerge with greater force
and clarity when the restructured railway organization permits better assignment of revenues and costs to
particular services. Discussions have begun with State agencies to develop a better policy for identifying
and defining compensation for these social (PSO) services, but no conclusion has yet been reached.
CR's capital needs are large - amounting to Yuan 330 billion over the next five years. Apart from the
construction surcharge fund which, along with operating income, should yield about Yuan 130 billion, the
bulk of these investments are financed by long-term debt, nearly 80 percent of which is provided from
domestic sources. Given the likelihood that funding from domestic policy banks will be reduced in the near
term, the ability of CR to build new lines and electrify or double track existing routes will be constrained.
At the same time, however, economic growth will continue to create bottlenecks in capacity throughout the
CR system. Under these conditions, less expensive methods of expanding capacity (longer lasting rail,
heavier axle loadings, more powerful locomotives, better bridge construction, etc.) will become more
financially attractive. This, in turn, should spur changes in the way CR operates and markets both its
freight and passenger services.
MOR is now contemplating a novel way of dealing with the revenue "divisions" issue -- the need to divide
revenue among all PTEs or FTEs involved in originating, hauling and terninating the traffic. Revenue
divisions based on cost allocations are the price paid for operating organizations based on geography rather
than market structure (major traffic flows). Divisions create a kind of "border effect," which imposes
operational costs (such as changing locomotives at boundaries), service deficiencies (such as schedule
uncertainties caused by interchanges of infonnation, equipment and crews) and unpredictable incentives
among those sharing the revenue if any of the participants perceives its share to be unfair or inadequate.
MOR proposes to institute an approach under which the originating enterprise keeps all of the revenue and
then pays subsequent companies a haulage or access fee based (for passengers) on type of train (high and
low quality) and class (high, medium and slow speed) of track. The approach for managing freight revenue
allocations has not yet been defined, but will be similar. This issue has a powerful link with infrastructure
unification because MOR believes that it would not be practical to have several infrastructure units, each
trying to institute six specific levels of charges for passenger and a similar number for freight users.
Enterprise restructuring
The heart of the enterprising restructuring lies in two changes, reliance on the PTEs and FTEs as the
fundamental management units for rail service along with regrouping, probably unification, of the
infrastructure. As suggested above, the administrations have been profit centers for several years, but it
appears that this has been more for MOR's accounting convenience than for actual managerial
accountability. As of the beginning of January 1999, the administrations have been converted into legal
entities that "own" their assets and have a much wider range of authority. Though they are still subject to
central control in a number of areas, they are now independent enough to be able to act in their own
interest, even when that interest diverges from that of other administrations or even MOR.
Based in part on negotiations between administrations and MOR, each administration was been assigned
individual "profit" targets (i.e., retum on assets) consonant with the order to MOR from Government to
erase the overall CR group "deficit" within three years. Discussions with the Kunming and Shanghai
administrations established that the administrations do, indeed, have such profit targets and that they take
them seriously. As discussed below, though, the administrations by and large lack the information they
would need to determnine how to increase "profits"(in particular, they cannot yet link specific costs and
- 83 -



revenues by business line) so their ability to increase profits is uncertain, and the actions they will take to
meet profit targets are unpredictable. Moreover, MOR has concluded that the existing 14 geographic
administrations are not optimum units for serving either passenger or freight markets.
"Up/down" separation with regrouping of the initial 14 PTEs and FTEs is the ultimate objective. This
means that the administrations will initially split their accounts (not institutionally) between infrastructure
costs and PTE or FTE operating costs and that the costs of infrastructure will be charged to either the FTE
or the PTE, depending on the cost allocations that emerge. Starting with the PTEs and then the FTEs, the
current set of 14 of each will be regrouped into three to five larger, institutionally separated companies
based on the actual structure of traffic flows in China.
Though infrastructure accounting separation is the long-range objective, methods for implementing the
separation, including techniques for access charging and capacity management, are still being defined.
Market orientation
A series of measures have been adopted to encourage sensitivity on the part of the administrations to
market forces. The most important of these is the decision to create Passenger Transport Enterprises
(PTEs), initially at the administration level, in order to put control over operating assets in one place, and
to bring control over both costs and revenue into one entity. The orders require these entities to take a
"corporate" form, and even envision issuance of common stocks, thus creating the possibility that private
investors might eventually play a role in operating parts of the Chinese rail system.
Of the 14 administrations, four are "minor" administrations having no sub-administrations (Kunmning,
IIohhot, Kunming, and Liuzhou). MOR has decided to adopt a series of PTE pilots in these
administrations in order to try out the concept and learn how to implement it. A mission visited Kuming
Railway Administration (KRA) and discussed the possibility of Bank assistance to the administration of
implementing their PTE. This resulted in terms of reference (TOR) for assistance in setting up and
establishing the management structure and cost allocations for the PTE vis-a-vis infrastructure.
The creation of PTEs will require major changes in management information systems at MOR and the
administrations. Current accounting systems were primarily developed for reporting purposes in the
Government context (as is true of all Govemment accounting systems), and not for developing timely,
business-driven information. The thrust of the TOR is to help KRA to devise and implement the revisions
in its information system needed to separate infrastructure costs from operations and to separate the costs
of the PTE from other operating costs.
The organizational change will inevitably produce FTEs as "profit centers" if not immediately as separate
corporations. In effect, this will eventually result in administrations that separate and spin off social
activities, operate non-rail businesses on a separate basis, operate separate PTEs, operate infrastructure as
a cost center charged with collecting some as yet undefined part of its costs from its users, and operate
freight as a profit center allied with the infrastructure operation.
- 84 -



Assessment
MOR's conceptual approach is a reasonable one. Its eventual success will depend on the solution of
several critical problems:
*   The PSO problem. Profit maximizers do not do well at administering cross subsidies, and this
problem will be exacerbated by the creation of PTEs where the burden will be unavoidably clear.
MOR and GOC will need to continue their discussions ON potential approaches to the PSO issue,
and it would be desirable if local governments could be included.
* The flat freight-tariff structure issue. MOR's current freight tariff is far too flat to permit
demand-sensitive pricing, and this is aggravated by the effect of the freight surcharge for
infrastructure construction. Market and profit-driven entities will rapidly realize that the lack of
demand-sensitive pricing is costing them business and profits. At some point in the near future,
MOR and GOC need to discuss an improved form of tariff control that permits more pricing
flexibility, while still restraining the exercise of monopoly power. The need to confront the flat
freight tariff is likely to be accelerated by the decline of coal as an energy source in China's
economy (coal is far and away CR's most significant commodity). The shift to a method revenue
division in which the originating carrier keeps the revenue minus a fixed payment to forwarding
carriers is likely to facilitate value-of-service pricing, but will increase pressures within the system
to create more flexibility in freight tariffs.
o   The tariff divisions issue. MOR used to distribute revenues among administrations based on a
complex, and manipulated, formula related to the "simulated" costs of loading, unloading, and
line-haul activities. The word simulated indicates that MOR now takes both difference in cost of
operation and revenue "need" into account in calculating the divisions formulae. Experience with
this type of system in North America conclusively demonstrated that enterprises can be forced to
spend as much time "gaming" the system as they do promoting business. The shift to a system of
formulary payments to forwarding carriers will reduce the divisions "gaming" if the payments are
seen as reasonable. Thus, the system for setting the forwarding payment will become as important
as the current divisions formulae but, if implemented on a broader area, will be harder to
manipulate.
-   Only by chance are business decisions better than the information available on which to act. As of
now, neither MOR nor the administrations have the information they need to operate like
businesses. They cannot determiine where profits and losses are generated, and they cannot link the
revenues and costs of specific actions. MOR's decision to adopt intemational accounting standards
will be critical in improving management information.
*   MOR has only general and incomplete criteria for deciding how to group the new PTEs and FTEs.
In addition, the criteria now under consideration will inevitably be conflicting, and resolving these
conflicts will not be straightforward. Also, MOR has not yet developed the methods and criteria
for designing the degree of competition to be generated. The Bank has strongly recommended that
MOR's analytical capability to define scenarios and measure results be upgraded, especially by
improving the linkage between TMIS, the network modeling and the cost models. MOR has agreed
to incorporate an analysis of the feasibility of improving their tools as a part of National Railways.
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 13
Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary
C[IINA: NATIONAL RAILWAY
Background
The China National Railway project consists of building a second electrified 25-kV rail for the Bao-Lan
railway line as well as rebuilding 28 percent (134 km) of the existing line. The existing railway is a
491-kin, single electrified line that passes through mountainous terrain. The line is a key section of the rail
corridor connecting northwest China with central China. The existing line has relatively sharp curves, and
climbs from about 600 m above mean sea level at Baoji to 2,050 m at the highest point and then descends
to 1,530 m at Lanzhou. The alignment of the second line reduces the distance between Baoji and Lanzhou
by 24 km to 467 km.
The decision to build a second line was taken because signaling improvements on the existing single line
would not have been sufficient to allow the line to accommodate projected traffic growth. In 1998, the
single line handled 45 pairs of trains, including 14 pairs of passenger trains, but projections indicate that by
2013, the Bao-Lan line will need to transport 34 pairs of passenger trains and about 48 million tons of
freight. After the completion of the project the line will have the capacity for 50 pairs of passenger trains
per day and 60 million tons of freight per year. The additional capacity created by the project will be
sufficient to handle the projected growth in passenger and freight traffic well beyond 2013. With the
twining of the line, the maximum speed of passenger trains will increase from 90 km/h to 140 km/h while
the maximum speed of freight trains will remain unaltered at 80 km/h. The current transit time of 9 hours
for passenger trains from Baoji to Lanzhou will be reduced to 6 hours and 40 minutes. Time spent by
freight trains waiting for signals will be virtually eliminated, and the current transit time of 17 hours will be
reduced to 10 hours.
The proposed design of the tracks and the rail bed includes measures to alleviate problems of high
embankments, soil settlement, unstable slopes, areas of potential high erosion, and areas prone to
landslides. The second line will have 230 bridges, with a combination of very large (>500 m), large (100 m
to 500 m) and medium (20 m to 100 m) bridges, for a total linear length 54.6 km.. The bridges have been
designed to withstand 100-year floods. The proposed second line will have 74 new or enlarged tunnels with
a total linear length of 72.7 km (13.6 percent). Of these, 24 tunnels have a length of more than 1 km, and
the longest tunnel is 3.92 km long.
Bank Financing
The total cost of the project is estimated at Yuan 10.62 billion (US$ 1.22 billion), with the Bank financing
US$156.29 million, or 12.3 percent, of the total. The Bank will not finance civil works for the Bao-Lan
line, but will finance the procurement of the rails, bridge beams, telecommunications and signaling system
and track maintenance system. An additional US$2.11 million will be provided for technical assistance to
support China Railways reform.
- 86 -



Bank Involvement
Since 1992, the Bank has supported China's efforts to design and implement a reform program for China
Railways. The project will promote the continuation of this dialogue by supporting a number of important
studies on the establishment of railway freight transport enterprises (FTEs), the development of an
integrated planning and costing tool to facilitate the establishment of line-of-business operations, and pilot
railway passenger transport enterprise (PTE) programs in a minor and a major administration.
This project has the strong support of all responsible agencies of the Government-SDPC, MOF and
MOR. The individual project components too have high ownership from all levels of MOR. While the Bank
will provide financing to remove an important bottleneck in the national railway system and increase traffic
capacity between the eastern and western regions of China, reform of the MOR is expected to be the major
benefit of the project.
Current Status of the Project
This project is the eighth in a series of railway projects the Bank has financed with the Ministry of
Railways in China. The project has been under-preparation since early 1999. It was agreed early in the
process that the Bank will only finance equipment and provide selected technical assistance related to
reform of the railways. However, construction work on the western section of the Bao-Lan line
(Tianshui-Lanzhou) started in early 2000, followed by work on the eastern section (Baoji-Tianshui) in
December 2000.
The Bank has chosen to continue with preparation of the project, even though construction has started,
primarily because it will enable us to maintain our dialogue with the Ministry about the reform of China
Railways, and on the understanding that MOR would implement the project in accord with all the relevant
Bank policies, including those related to all applicable safeguard issues. As of June 2001, in the western
section a substantial part of the relatively simple civil engineering works is complete. About 150 km of
sub-grade is complete with about 48 km of track laid, while a 16.5-km section (near Longxi) is already
operational. In the eastern section, much of the work is concentrated on digging for the turmels and laying
bridge foundations. Sub-grade work has not yet started. At the end of June 2001, the eastern section had
reached about 21 percent completion. In accord with standard the Bank's procedures for projects under
construction, the Bank has been receiving environmental supervision reports since mid-2000 and have
supervised environmental activities three times during the same period (June 2000, October 2000, and July
2001).
Environmental Supervision of the Project
In both the western and eastern sections, MOR started construction of the project only after receiving
approval of the Chinese version of the EIA from the State Environmental Protection Administration
(SEPA). To ensure that environmental management and monitoring has been carried out in accordance with
the Environmental Action Plan (EAP) submitted to the Bank, MOR has been submitting quarterly
environmental monitoring reports, and the Bank has supervised the environmental aspects of the project
three times. The latest Bank supervision was carried out July 18-24, 2001. To date, MOR has submitted
five quarterly environmental monitoring reports, and the latest, dated July 2001, covers the period
April-June 2001. The environmental monitoring reports and Bank supervision aide-memoires show that
MOR has provided adequate training to its own staff and to contractors staff and that the environmental
aspects of the project are properly managed and supervised.
Construction sites are well managed and the camps have good sanitation, recreational facilities and staff
accommodations. Disposal sites for excess waste from tunnels and borrow areas were properly selected and
- 87 -



are being properly managed, and the contractors and MOR have consulted local village councils and
farmers on the locations and ultimate use of the sites. At a number of sites, MOR and the contractors have
reached agreements with the local authorities and village councils on the ultimate use of the camp sites and
waste-reclamation sites. For example, at the Xinquercha Tunnel site, the construction camp was built to
conform to the layout of a school, and it will be donated to the village when the project is completed. In
most cases, the reclaimed sites will be used as agricultural land.
At all sites, MOR and the contractors have agreed to sensitize the population of their construction camps to
the perils of HIV/AIDS and to display posters on HIV/AIDS, safety, and the environment. Cultural-relic
sites also were well surveyed and were excavated by provincial cultural and archeological institutes before
permission to commence construction was given. The design has been modified a number of times to avoid
cultural-relic sites (e.g., 13 of the 16 cultural-relic sites in the eastem section were avoided by a judicial
shift in the alignment). As construction progresses, MOR has instructed the local railway administrations
and the contractors to begin relocating a number of schools in accordance with the EAP.
Environmental Assessment
The National Railways project is classified as a World Bank Category A project because it involves major
railway construction, partially on new alignment, increased noise, occupation of fertile and barren land, soil
erosion, and resettlement. As required by World Bank Operational Procedures OP4.01, an environmental
assessment (EA) was carried out. The Research Academy of Railway Sciences, with the assistance of the
First Survey and Design Institute of the Ministry of Railways (MOR) and support from independent
intemational consulting specialists, conducted the EA. Drafts of EA documents, including the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and Executive
Summary (ES) were reviewed and discussed in detail during project preparation. The final drafts of the EA
documents were submitted to the Bank on April 2, 2001, and were found satisfactory.
The policy and administrative requirements for the environmental assessment of development projects in
China were followed during the preparation and evaluation of EA, as were the Bank's safeguard policies.
Major laws and regulations of the People's Republic of China that apply to the EA are as follows:
*  Laws of Environmental Protection
* Law of Water and Soil Conservation
* Law of Air Pollution Control
* Law of Water Pollution Control
* Law of Environmental Noise Pollution Control
* Circulation on Strengthening EIA for Construction Projects Receiving International Financing
* Technical Standards on EIA of Railway Engineering Construction Projects
* EIA Administrative Measures for Railway Construction Projects
* Technical Specifications for Environmental Impact Assessment.
Brief Project Description
The National Railways project includes the construction of 482 km of electrified railway from Baoji in
Shaanxi province to Lanzhou in Gangsu province (see map No. IBRD 31717, at end of this document).
Additional components include building two new passenger stations and expanding two more, rebuilding
one locomotive depot, constructing a total of 507 km of access roads, and expanding power supply, water
supply, sewage treatment, solid waste disposal, and other auxiliary facilities. The EA studied the entire
project, including the components not financed by the Bank.
- 88 -



Baseline Environmental Description
The project area east of the Quercha River belongs to the southern temperate zone meta-hurnid climate
district, and west of the watershed, to the middle temperate zone meta-drought climate district. The average
annual temperature ranges from 3.5CC to 12'C, average annual precipitation from 319.4 mm to 679.1 mm,
and evaporation from 1,287.6 mm to 1,624.9 mm. Altitude generally rises from east to west from about
600 m in Baoji to 1,400 m in Lanzhou. The topography is characterized by a high terrace in the river valley
east of Tianshui and mountainous terrain with numerous steep gorges towards the west.
Ambient air quality was monitored near three major railway stations along the Bao-Lan line in January
2000 at the peak of the heating season when air quality is usually at its worst. The results indicate that total
suspended particulates exceeded applicable standards in all three locations most of the time. SO
concentrations are most serious in Tianshui and Lanzhou, where levels exceeded the standards 40 percent
to 80 percent of the time, respectively. NOx levels were within acceptable standards.
Noise levels in 54 sensitive locations within 120m of the Bao-Lan line were measured between October
1999 and April 2000. Daytime noise levels at 11 locations exceeded the standards by 0.1 dB(A) to 9.7
dB(A), and night-time noise at five locations exceed the standards by 1.5dB(A) to 21.6dB(A). Night-time
noise at schools (except for five boarding schools) was not measured because the schools are deemed
non-sensitive during the night.
Surface water quality was monitored in three locations in the Weihe River near an existing locomotive
depot, which is a primary wastewater discharge source of the railway line. The results show that COD
exceeds the standards in two locations and BOD exceeds the standards in one location.
The primary type of soil erosion in the project area is water and fluvial erosion caused by disturbance to
surface vegetation. Common forms of soil erosion include movement of surficial materials, ditch failures
due to the lack of vegetation, and landslides (common in the Weihe River Valley on slopes that range from
70 degrees to 90 degrees). Other common forms of erosion are karst topography resulting in a string of
subsided subsurface soil layers (extremely unstable for the construction of surface facilities), and rock falls
and mud flows. The total existing soil erosion at the project area is estimated to be 70,000 tons per year,
due both to natural and man-made factors.
Professional archeology and cultural relics institutes conducted a survey between March and May 2000.
The institutes identified 29 cultural relic sites in the western section (Gansu) and 19 in the eastern section
(Shaanxi). In the eastern section, 14 of the 29 sites were excluded by the local archeological authority (The
Institute of Cultural Relics and Archeology of the Gansu Province) as being insignificant and the other 15
were excavated by the authorities before approval was given for construction. For the eastern section, of
the 19 sites identified by the EA, 16 sites were avoided by shifting the alignment. The remaining three sites
are being excavated by the Institute of Archeology of Shaanxi Province before approval for construction is
given.
The total population serviced by the railway line is 9 million and the total serviced area is 700,000 km2,
including approximately 1.4 million ha of cultivated land. The major cities along the railway line include
Baoji in Shaanxi province, and Tianshui, Gangu, Wushan, Longxi, Dingxi, Yuzhong and Lanzhou in
Gansu province.
- 89 -



Analysis of Alternatives
Four sets of alternatives were considered and compared during project planning:
* Construction of a completely different railway line serving the same destinations
* Building railway lines as opposed to upgrading highways in the same transportation corridor
* Different alignments and/or designs at selected sections for the Bao-Lan second line.
* No action alternative.
Baoji and Lanzhou also are connected by rail through the city of Zhongwei to the north. However, the
Baozhonglan rail line is about 299 km longer than the Bao-Lan rail line. For all aspects of the natural and
socioeconomic environments, the impacts associated with constructing a second Baozhonglan line are much
higher than those associated with the Bao-Lan second line.
Baoji and Lanzhou are connected by 684 kIn of highway and upgrading the highway was considered as an
alternative to constructing the Bao-Lan second line. Comparing the two alternatives shows that the second
rail line will occupy less land, create relatively less noise (except at certain intervals), require less power,
provide more efficient and less expensive bulk freight transport, offer better transport safety, and generates
less waste and air pollution, although it is not as convenient to residents along the alignment.
For the double-tracking of the existing line, the choices of alignment were limited. In developing the
alignment, the project took into account the difficult topography of the existing line (the Weihe River plain,
Qinling Mountains, Qi-Lu-He Mountains, and Longzhong Loess plateau), three major faults in the rocks
(varying in length from 10 km for the shortest fault to 100 km for the longest fault), and unfavorable
geological conditions in nine zones along the existing line (e.g., areas prone to landslides, faulted rock
fornation, rock flows, and fast-moving streams). Engineering and geological data showed that building
tunnels and high embankments in the fault zones should be avoided and that bridges should not be built
over streams in unfavorable geological zones. As a result, the alignment of the second line does not follow
the exact alignment of the old line for a significant portion of its length. The alignment of the second line
includes a significantly larger proportion of bridges and tunnels.
Finally, the "no action" or "do-little" option was evaluated. However, this option, even with improved
signalling on the existing line, would not have been sufficient to allow the line to accommodate the expected
traffic growth.
With the general route selected to avoid geological and technical problems, different alignments and designs
were considered at five sections of the proposed Bao-Lan second line to find the options with the least
environmental impact. These alternatives are detailed in the EIA report.
* Section 1-Alignment for crossing landslide zone between Weitan and Boyang
Three alternatives were considered. These were:
*   A north alignment, which includes four large and four medium bridges and three tunnels for a total
distance of 6.945 km, of which 5.816 km (or 84 percent of the length of the section) will be bridges
and tunnels.
- 90 -



*   A middle alignment, which includes one large and four medium bridges and two tunnels (the longer
one 2,140 m long) for a distance of 6.05 km, of which 5.14 km (or 85 percent) will be bridges and
tunnels.
*   The south section, which includes one large and three medium bridges and two tunnels (the longer
one 3,897 m long) for a length of 6.14 kin, of which 6.119 km or 90 percent will be bridges and
tunnels.
The north alignment was selected because less agricultural land is required and it offers better
geological safety, with minimum potential for soil erosion and river sedimentation.
*   Section 2-Crossing to Putaoyuan railway station
Three alternatives were considered. These were:
*   Long bridge to cross Weihe River to the end section through Dichuan Weihe bridge
*   Land-based option to increase the height of the terrace by 8 m through soil and rock filling to
shorten the bridge by 788.6 m
e   Similar to the long-bridge option in alignment, except passing through the Putaoyuan railway
station
The long-bridge option was selected because it has smaller requirements for bridges, culverts and
channels and a shorter distance, occupies less highly productive farmland, requires a lower volume of
soil and rock removal and filling, and has less potential for erosion and river sedimentation.
*   Section 3-Luotuoxiang to Sangyuanzi
Three alternatives were considered. These were:
e Land-based option, which includes three medium bridges for a total length of 3.10 km
3 Channel option, which is similar to the land-based option except that it passes through a short
tunnel, for a total length of 3.077 km
* Parallel option, which runs mostly parallel to the existing line with five intersections with the
Sandian Agricultural Irrigation Scheme
The land-based option was selected because, although it occupies more land, it requires less soil and
rock disposal and has lower potential for soil erosion.
*   Section 4-Ancient tree at Pengjiaying Village
The original alignment would have required removing a Chinese scholar tree that is said to have been
transplanted by migrants from Shanxi province over 400 years ago during the Ming Dynasty. An
alternative alignment, shifted 15 m to the left, was selected to respect the will of the local people to
preserve the tree. This distance was considered adequate by the local cultural institute.
*   Section 5-Old city of West Qing Dynasty
The original alignment would have passed through an old city of the West Qing Dynasty that is a
provincial-level cultural relics site in Gansu Province. An alternative alignment, a shift of 4-10 m to
the left of the original alignment was selected to protect the historic cultural site. This distance was
also considered adequate by the local cultural institute.
- 91 -



*   Section 6-Tuoshi Station
Two alternatives were considered. These were:
* The Toushi County option, which would locate the station on the northern bank of the Weihe
River, involving 2.77 km of bridges and tunnels
* The Ji County option, which would locate the station on the southern bank of the Weihe River,
involving 3.14 krn of bridges and tunnels.
The Toushi County option was selected because when compared with the Ji County option, it runs in a
straighter line, relies on better and more stable geological conditions, requires a shorter length of
tunnels and less waste material requiring disposal, occupies less agricultural land, and causes less
disturbance to the public and existing infrastructure.
*   Section 7-Huchaowan to Wangzi
Two alternatives were considered. These were:
*  Crossing the Weihe River twice through a 4,174-r-long tunnel, with a total bridge and tunnel
length of 5.997 km
* Crossing Weihe River four times through three tunnels, with a total bridge and tunnel length of
5.48 km
The single-tunnel option rather than the three-tunnel option was selected because it causes little impact
on nearby villages, requires no housing relocation and less agricultural land, and is a shorter route,
although it creates more spoil waste from tunnel excavation.
-   Section 8-Washan tunnel
Three altematives were considered. These were:
* Relocating both existing tunnels along separate alignments, totaling 3.46 km with 1.503 km of
tunnel
* Double-tracking the entire section, using 2.045 kmn of existing line
* Maintaining one of the existing lines and build only one new line
The double-tracking option was selected because of its relative geological stability, shortest length,
lowest noise impact, and lowest operating cost.
*   Section 9-Xiejiapo to Tudianzi
Two altematives were considered. These were:
* Through two tunnels and over the Weihe River on the Sishilipu Great Bridge, involving the
reconstruction of 1.258 km of line, four bridges and two tunnels
* Same as the right track in the first option except the roadbed, tunnels, and bridges are widened to
accomnmodate double-tracking
The second option was selected because of it has minimal impact on agriculture, resettlement, and
noise and has the lowest operating cost.
- 92 -



*   Section 10-Lijiaping to Jinjiacun
Three alternatives were considered. These were:
*   Construction of new double-track in the 4,010-m-long Quercha tunnel with the total newly built
line 10.18 km long
*   Construction of a line parallel to the existing line, a new 1780-m double-track tunnel, and six
bridges, with a total line length of 9.2 km.
*   Construction of a single-track line to detour the long lop, requiring construction of 4.09 km
single-line tunnel and 5.04 km of new rail bed and track
The first option was selected because it has the shortest and straightest alignment, requires the least
agricultural land, creates the lowest noise impact and has the lowest operating cost.
Cultural Relics
Between March and May 2000, the Institute of Archeology of Shaanxi Province and the Institute of
Cultural Relics and Archeology of Gansu Province surveyed the entire alignment and identified 19 cultural
relics sites in Shaanxi Province (eastern section) and 29 in Gansu Province (western section) in the vicinity
of the construction area. In the selection and design of the alignment, 16 of the 19 sites identified in the
Shaanxi Province were avoided by judicious shift in the alignment. The remaining three sites will be
properly excavated before construction begins. In Gansu Province, II of the 29 sites were avoided by
shifting the alignment. The remaining sites will be excavated under the supervision of the Institute of
Cultural Relics and Archeology of Gansu Province. The protection of the cultural relics sites has been
incorporated in the EAP, and no construction will commence until the sites have been cleared by the
respective institute. If a chance find is identified, construction will be stopped and the provincial
archeological and cultural relics institute notified. Construction will only start again once the site has been
investigated, appropriate mitigation measures have been implemented, and permission has been given by
the local institute.
Enviromnental Impacts and Mitigation Plan
The major potential environmental impacts associated with the project and their mitigation measures are
presented in detail in the project EA. The EA covers topographic change, soil erosion, geological
disturbance, construction noise, disposal of excess materials, construction camps, temporary access roads
during the construction phase, as well as increased noise and vibration, electromagnetic impacts, and
wastewater from locomotive repair and maintenance facilities during the operation phase. The EA has
developed measures to avoid, minimize, or mitigate the adverse impacts of the project or otherwise
compensate for them. These mitigation measures are summarized below.
Design Phase
In addition to the altemative alignments and designs described above, the routing of the project was
considered during the design phase to avoid and minimize adverse impacts on the surrounding environment.
The routing design took into consideration the extent of disturbance to vegetation growth, the number of
water crossings, unstable terrain and other geologically hazardous areas, populated or otherwise sensitive
areas, the occupation of fertile lands, and disturbance to cultural relics.
Noise. The assessment found 59 locations considered sensitive receptors -locations that may be subject
to sufficient noise impact from the project to warrant mitigation measures. The sensitive receptors include
43 schools (one of which is a boarding school, which is sensitive to noise at night as well as during the
day), one hospital, one kindergarten and 15 residential areas. Noise at 41 of these sensitive receptors is
- 93 -



predicted to exceed the standard by a range of 2.6 dB(A) to 25.2 dB(A) when the project is completed. A
number of measures to minimize noise have been incorporated into the design. The seven sensitive
receptors closest to the railway tracks and the most heavily impacted schools will be relocated to eliminate
the noise impact. For the school and other sensitive receptors that will remain in their current locations,
other mitigation measures will be adopted to protect the sensitive receptors from train operating noise.
These measures include erecting sound barriers at six schools, one clinic and one residential area, installing
double-glazed-windows at 11 schools, creating vegetation separation, and incorporating long-welded tracks
into the design. Silencers will be installed on eight boilers in the train stations and in repair and
maintenance facilities to reduce noise levels.
Waste management. To minimize the impact on hydrology, bridges are designed high and long enough to
withstand a 100-year flood. Bridge design incorporated the fewest possible bridge pilings in water courses
to encourage efficient flood discharge. New industrial wastewater treatment plants will be built at the
Tianshui and Langzhou locomotive depots, Langzhou maintenance depot, and Longzxi turnaround depot.
New sewage treatment plants at the Baoji, Tianshui, Longxi and Dingxi stations will be built to meet the
wastewater discharge standards. In the intermediate stations, septic tanks will be installed, and the effluent
will be discharged with irrigation-quality standards to irrigation ditches.
Air pollution. The impact on ambient air quality comes mainly from boiler emissions. To mitigate these
impacts, oil-fired burners are included in the design of the boilers. Filters will be installed at Gangu
County, Wushan station and Tianshui depot to control boiler emissions. Coal-fired boilers with a capacity
of more than one ton will be equipped with desulfurization systems with 50-percent efficiency, and
low-sulfur-content coal will be used in these boilers. The project is designed for electric trains rather than
diesel trains to eliminate emissions. Diesel engines will be used only on an as-required basis in the yards of
the Longxi depot.
Electromagnetic radiation from the project railway will disturb the television signals in residential areas
close to the railway tracks. To mitigate these impacts, a TV antenna system will be installed for the
community at Caijiasi village in Gangu county and Shangjiezi village in Wushan county.
Existing roads will be used as much as possible for access to construction sites in order to reduce the need
to build temporary access roads. The occupation of land will be minimized by routing the proposed railway
near the existing line to the extent possible. Land that is occupied temporarily for construction will either be
used for permanent operations (e.g., some access roads), be dedicated to other functions (e.g., from borrow
pit to fish pond), or be restored and reclaimed through appropriate landscaping. All excess materials from
construction activities will be disposed of safely in existing landfills.
The project will require the relocation of 432,352 m2 of residential and factory housing that is home to
8,204 people. All relocated residents will be properly compensated and will receive training for new
employment. Special consideration in terms of compensation will be given to the elderly, illiterate and
farmers. For people whose sources of well water will be disrupted by the construction of tunnels, additional
water wells and other water supply sources will be developed. (See Annex 14)
Construction Phase
The land occupied during construction will be kept to a minimum to minimize the project's envirormental
impact. Areas that must be occupied will be revegetated after construction is completed. In total, 255 ha of
land occupied temporarily by project construction activities will be revegetated and recovered.
- 94 -



Noise. Large and noisy construction activities will be kept away from populated areas. Loud construction
machinery and major construction activities will be restricted strictly to the daytime. Temporary noise
barriers will be constructed to protect sensitive receptors from construction noise. Construction traffic will
be directed to avoid sensitive locations during the day and will be banned at night.
Waste management. To minimize adverse impacts on surface water during construction, water runoff will
be diverted during construction, with complete isolation of work areas and restored following construction.
River-crossing construction activities will be scheduled to the extent possible during the low-flow periods.
Sewage discharge from construction camps also will be a potential source of water contamination. To
mitigate the potential impact, no sewage from construction camps will be allowed to discharge without
treatment. The sewage will be either held at the site and transported to treatment facilities regularly or will
be treated on site by septic tanks or other means to meet irrigation-discharge standards.
Air pollution. The temporary dirt roads and construction-materials storage areas will be watered at least
twice a day during dry weather to minimize airbome dust. Materials in trucks will be covered during
construction and all motor vehicles will be maintained to minimize emissions.
Management of construction. Retaining walls and other slope-stabilization techniques such as stone
retention troughs will be built during construction in 243 locations along the line to control unstable
geological areas and surface erosion. Temporary holding and settling tanks will be installed at the
construction sites, and construction activities will be suspended during extremely wet weather to minimnize
soil erosion.
Cultural relics. Construction camps will be located to minimnize disturbance to communities. Solid and
liquid waste will be stored with proper protection and removed from sites regularly by qualified vendors for
disposal.
Four cultural relics that are directly on the project alignment will undergo protective excavation before
construction begins. The relics will be moved to provincial museums for permanent protection and display.
Operation Phase
Noise. To minimize noise impacts during operation of the rail line, the volume and frequency of train
whistles will be decreased and train speeds will be reduced in heavily populated zones. To the extent
possible, train operations at night will be minimized.
Air pollution/Waste Management. Pollution control facilities such as air emissions filters and wastewater
treatment plants will be properly maintained to ensure they function as designed. Boilers will be maintained
to run at optimum conditions and efficiency to minimize emissions. Rubbish from passenger trains will be
bagged and transported to Baoji, Tianshui, and Lanzhou stations where it will be disposed of at the local
approved sanitary waste facilities.
Staff from closed railway stations will be offered new employment in the railway system. Assistance will
be provided for altemative employment. Railway housing and buildings no longer used when the project is
completed will be sold to the local community (See Annex 14).
- 95 -



Extensive environmental monitoring programs will be implemented during both construction and operation
phases (details below) to ensure that adverse environmental impacts do not exceed the projected impacts
and that the mitigation measures proposed are implemented and effective. Inadequate mitigation or
unexpected adverse impact will be detected promptly by the monitoring programs and appropriate actions
will be taken to address them.
Environmental Monitoring
The EAP includes environmental monitoring programs for both construction and operation phases. The
parameters to be monitored include land acquisition, relocation and resettlement, soil erosion, noise, dust,
degradation of water quality, stream sedimentation, solid waste disposal, and electromagnetic radiation.
During the construction phase, environmental monitoring will be conducted with two approaches: daily and
routine monitoring consisting of mainly visual observations and limited equipment measurements such as
handheld noise meters; and periodic moinitoring by professionals using standard methods recognized by
regulatory authorities. Monitoring reports will be compiled once every four months, summarizing the
findings of the monitoring. The reports will be submitted to project offices as well as relevant agencies and
the World Bank. During the operation phase, noise levels will be monitored once every two months for the
first six months and once every six months thereafter. Soil erosion will be monitored every six months, and
air and water quality will be monitored once a year.
Public Consultation
Three rounds of public consultation were carried out during the EA (see table at end of this annex). The
first round took place during project screening and the preparation of tenns of reference in May 1999. The
second round of public consultation was the at the issuance of various draft EA reports between October
1999 and June 2000. The third public consultation came at the issuance of the final EA report between
November to December 2000. Several techniques were used to engage the public, including public-opinion
surveys using questionnaires, and public meetings in villages. The people consulted included mainly those
who will be affected directly by the project. Relevant government and local community organizations and
experts on various environmental and socioeconomic issues also were consulted.
First Round (May 1999)
The first round of public consultation was conducted in the early stage of the EA when the terms of
reference for environmental assessment were prepared. Public opinion questionnaires were distributed to 66
local residents of different ages, sexes and educational backgrounds who would be affected directly by the
project, as well as local environmental bureaus and other experts. The main objective was to identify main
public concerns and determine environmental impact assessment criteria and contents. Noise,
electromagnetic radiation, vibration, garbage and land acquisition and resettlement were identified as major
issues of potential concern.
Second Round (October 1999 through June 2000)
The second round of public consultation was carried out at the completion of several versions of draft EA
reports, mainly through public opinion surveys using pre-designed public opinion questionnaires. A total of
297 individuals in four separate surveys filled out and returned the questionnaires offering their opinions on
the EA reports' findings and recommendations. Among these individuals, 45-69 percent were farmers and
residents from project-affected areas, and 25-40 percent were teachers and students from affected schools.
One survey focused specifically on the opinions of women.
- 96 -



The public opinion survey showed that the vast majority (94.5 percent) of those who returned the
questionnaires supported the project. The public awareness of the project increased substantially during the
preparation period, from 23 percent of those surveyed in the first round to 94 percent in the second round.
Major environmental issues raised by the affected public included safety at railway crossings, train noise,
water and soil conservation, effects on the development of the local economy, and land acquisition and
relocation. These issues were considered as the design team determined the railway alignmnent, station
locations, and the arrangements for water supply, wastewater treatment and discharge, and electricity
supply.
The EA team responded to public concerns by setting up tunnel crossings and road junctions at regular
intervals along the proposed railway, particularly in areas where schools and/or villages are located.
Schools will be relocated, noise-barriers will be erected, double-glazed windows will be installed, and green
belts will be created to address noise concerns. Soil and water conservation measures will be incorporated
into the design at an investment of 2.4 percent of total project cost. These conservation measures include
covering side slopes, road beds, borrow pits and spoil disposal sites and reclaiming disturbed lands. To
address concerns about local economic development, priority will be given to the use of local resources
during the project construction.
Third Round (November to December 2000)
The third round of public consultation was conducted at the final draft EA report stage. This consultation
consisted of a series of 10 public meetings in villages along the railway. A total of 1,054 rural residents
participated in the meetings. The public meetings were particularly important in the rural areas because
many people who are illiterate cannot express themselves through public-opinion survey questionnaires but
can do so in public meetings. In this way, public meetings can give the public access to information and
give them a forum to raise their concerns about the project, the EA findings, and the recommended
mitigation measures.
The main concern raised during the public meetings was land acquisition and compensation. Noise and
television signal reception remained concerns of the farmers. The EA team assured villagers that an
appropriate compensation schedule will be established and implemented promptly. The meeting participants
were generally satisfied with the proposed mitigation measures for potential adverse impacts, including
noise and television-signal reception.
Information Disclosure
In compliance with EIA process requirements in China, the completed draft and final EIA reports were
distributed to local environmental protection bureaus (EPBs) in the project area. The concerned public can
have access to and review the reports at local EPB offices and in Shaanxi and Gansu provincial libraries
(see attached tables for details). They were placed in the Infoshop in Washington in early April 2001. As
from the same date, it has been available to members of the public in English and Chinese from the Bank's
office in China.
- 97 -



Public Consultation
Substance       By whom, with whom          When             Where            Bank
Policy
EA TOR, using     By First MOR D)esign     May 4-17        29 villages, schools    OP4.01
public opinion    Institute with affected  1999            and organizations
questionnaires    people and experts                       along Bao-Lan line
Draft EA reports,   By MOR First I)esign   October 19-29,  53 villages, schools    OP4.01
using public      Institute and Research   1999            and organizations
opinion           Academy of Railway Science               along Bao-Lan line
questionnaires    with affected rural residents
Draft EA reports,   By MOR First Design    January 7-9     8 villages, schools and  OP4.01
using public     Institute, with affected rural 2000       organizations along
opinion          residents                                 Bao-Lan line
questionnaires
Draft EA reports,   By Research Academy of   April 3-8     11 villages, schools    OP4.01
using public      Railway Science and MOR  2000            and organizations
opinion           First Design Institute, with             along Bao-Lan line
questionnaires    affected rural residents
Draft EA reports,   By Research Academy of   June 8-19     9 villages along     OP4.01
using public      Railway Science and MOR  2000            Bao-Lan line
opinion           First Design Institute, with
questionnaires    affected rural residents
Final draft EA    By Research Academy of   October         9 villages and 1     OP4.01
report using      Railway Sciences, with   29-December   school along
public meetings    affected rural residents  4, 2000       Bao-Lan line
Information Disclosure
Document            Date of disclosure          Location             Bank Policy
EA TOR                    August 1999          SEPA and MOR in Beijing;     OP4.01
EBPs in Xian, Baoji, Lanzhou,
Tianshui, Dingxi
Draft final EA report      March 2, 2001       Public notice on Shaanxi Daily   OP4.01
March 12, 2001     and Gansu Daily respectively,
March12, 200 about completion and
availability of draft final EA
reports in Shaanxi and Gansu
libraries
Revised draft final report  April 6, 2001      Shaanxi and Gansu libraries;    OP4.01
MOR Environmental Office
Beijing
- 98 -



Additional
Annex 14
Resettlement Impacts and Resettlement Action Plan Summary
CHINA: NATIONAL RAILWAY
Introduction
This annex reviews adverse impacts related to land acquisition or changes in land use for the National
Railways project, and the arrangements proposed in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) to mitigate them.
Consistent with World Bank Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement, the objectives of
resettlement planning for the project have been to avoid or minimize adverse impacts, and to ensure that
incomes and living standards are improved (or at least restored) for all persons adversely affected by the
project. Most of the land acquisition will occur in Gansu Province, where many areas are characterized by
poor soils and water scarcity. Most of these areas support a relatively sparse population (a significant
proportion of the land to be used is uncultivated desert wasteland). Special care has been taken in
resettlement planning to ensure that rehabilitation measures are sufficient in particular areas where the
labor-to-land ratio is comparatively high.
Project Composition
While the project objectives include support for national railway institutional reform, the project also
includes a civil works component-double-tracking the existing Bao-Lan (Baoji to Lanzhou) line. In many
areas along this line, there will be little or no land acquisition because the second line will run parallel to
the existing line, within an existing right-of-way. Because much of the alignment follows a river through
mountainous terrain, however, there are also areas where the two lines diverge, leading to land acquisition
and other resettlement-related impacts.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement-Related Impacts
Based on project designs to date, double-tracking along the Bao-Lan Line will require the permanent
acquisition of 6,390 mu (426 hectares) of land. This includes 6,010 mu (about 400 hectares) of
collective-owned rural land and 380 mu (about 25 hectares) of state-owned urban land. Of the
collective-owned land to be acquired, about 4,515 mu (301 hectares) is cultivated, including about 972 mu
(about 65 hectares) of irrigated land, 3,284 mu (about 219 hectares) of dry land, 143 mu (about 10
hectares) of vegetable land, and 116 mu (about 8 hectares) of orchard. The remainder of the land to be
acquired consists of about 90 mu (six hectares) of housing grounds, about 14 mu (about one hectare) of
woodland, and 1,007 mu (about 67 hectares) of uncultivated desert land.
An additional 4,852 mu (about 323 hectares) of railway-reserved land will be retrieved from collectives
that had been penrnitted temporary use for cultivation. The project also will require the temporary
acquisition of 5,508 mu (about 367 hectares) from collectives for use during the construction period.
Structural demolition of private residential housing is expected to total 312,430 square meters, with 2,648
households (8,761 individuals) affected. A total of 40 enterprises or work units will be affected by
non-residential demolition, but no one will permanently lose existing employment because of the project.
Additionally, nine households presently occupying illegally built workers' quarters on railway land will
require relocation. They are to occupy altemative workers' quarters to be provided by the railway.
- 99 -



Relatively minor design changes are likely to continue until implementation. Typically, final designs result
in marginal decreases in land acquisition and structural demolition, as well as changes in proportion among
categories of affected land and structures. These patterns are borne out in an April 2001 independent
monitoring report regarding early stages of implementation where construction has already been initiated.
Socioeconomic survey results and Bank field visits indicate that no minority nationality communities are
located in proximity to the existing and proposed rail alignments.
Legal and Policy Framework
The legal basis for land acquisition and resettlement planning includes national, provincial and local laws
and regulations. Relevant national laws or regulations include the Land Administration Law (1999), City
Planning Law (1990), and the Administrative Regulation on Urban Building Demolition and Relocation
(1991). Because the proposed works traverse two provinces and three urban areas, coordination among
administrative jurisdictions is important to effective resettlement implementation. Official letters have been
obtained from Gansu and Shaanxi provincial authorities stating that they will implement land acquisition
and resettlement in accordance with the RAP.
In China, all land officially designated as urban is owned by the state, and all cultivated rural land is
owned by village collectives. As a result, there are two types of land acquisition for this project. One is to
acquire collectively owned rural land, with compensation and other forms of assistance provided to the
collectives losing the land. The other type of land acquisition is to acquire land-use rights within the urban
built-up area. In this case, the acquiring agency or unit must provide adequate compensation or
resettlement housing for the displaced families and affected enterprises.
When collectively owned farmland is acquired, the future land user pays compensation for land, loss of
crops and attached properties, and a resettlement subsidy for the rehabilitation of affected persons.
According to the Land Administration Law (as revised in 1999), the land compensation will be 6 - 10
times the average annual output value per mu for the three years before land acquisition. The resettlement
subsidy, determined according to the number of agricultural population to be resettled, is usually an
additional 4-6 times the average annual output.
Young crop compensation and compensation for affected structures or other fixed assets are paid directly
to individuals. The land compensation and resettlement subsidy is to be paid to the collectives losing the
land. This compensation is to be used for production development, non-farm employment and
income-generating activities for the affected people. With village members' prior approval, it can also be
used for improving community facilities or services. By law, separate accounts on resettlement
compensation are to be kept at each affected village, with financial reports provided annually to the next
higher level of government.
Compensation Standards
In railway projects, the Ministry of Railways typically negotiates a single comprehensive compensation
package with each province involved, with the understanding that actual compensation rates in each
administrative jurisdiction will be based on replacement cost for various categories of affected assets. This
means that compensation rates (and, in the case of land compensation, the multiples of output value used to
establish compensation rates) vary from location to location. In each case, however, compensation rates
meet or exceed legal requirements, and meet or exceed replacement cost valuation.
- 100 -



In Gansu Province, the minimum land compensation rate for irrigated land is Yuan 7,200 (about US$878)
per mu, which is 8.5 times the average agricultural output. The minimum amount of resettlement subsidy
for loss of irrigated land is Yuan 4,800 (about US$585) per mu, which is 5.6 times average agricultural
output. For dry land, the minimum land compensation rate is Yuan 3,520 (about US$429) per mu, which is
about 6.6 times the average agricultural output of Yuan 530. The minimum resettlement subsidy for loss of
dry land is 2,400 Yuan (about US$292) per mu, or about 4.5 times average agricultural output. But actual
compensation rates for irrigated land range as high as 13,200 Yuan (about US$1,609) per mu, reflecting
higher output values in some areas. And the amount of the resetflement subsidy ranges as high as Yuan
12,800 (about USS 1,561) per mu, generally reflecting higher population densities in irrigated areas and a
corresponding need for increased economic rehabilitation assistance. For dry land, the maximum land
compensation is Yuan 5,200 (or about US$634) per mu, and the maximum resettlement subsidy is Yuan
4,800 (or about US$ 585) per mu. For the relatively small amounts of vegetable land or orchards to be
acquired, compensation rates (including land compensation and resettlement subsidy) range from Yuan
16,000 (about US$ 1,951) to Yuan 26,000 (about US$ 3,170) per mu.
In Shaanxi Province, the minimum land compensation rate for irrigated land is Yuan 7,500 (about
US$915) per mu, which is 8.2 times the average agricultural output. The minimum amount of resettlement
subsidy for loss of irrigated land is Yuan 5,000 (about US$ 610) per mu, which is 5.5 times average
agricultural output. For dry land, the minimum land compensation rate is Yuan 3,720 (about US$453) per
mu, which is about 6.8 times the average agricultural output. The minimum resettlement subsidy for loss
of dry land is Yuan 2,480 (about US$ 300) per mu, or about 4.5 times average agricultural output. But
actual compensation rates for irrigated land range as high as Yuan 8,700 (about US$1,060) per mu,
reflecting higher output values. And the amount of resettlement subsidy ranges as high as Yuan 5,800
(about US$ 707) per mu, generally reflecting greater need for economic rehabilitation assistance. For dry
land, the maximum land compensation rate is Yuan 4,080 (about US$497) per mu and the maximum
resettlement subsidy is Yuan 2,720 (or about US$332) per mu. In Shaanxi, the combined land
compensation and resettlement subsidy rate for vegetable land is Yuan 26,000 (about US$ 3,170) per mu,
and for orchard land it is Yuan 21,000 (about US$ 2,561) per mu.
For desert wasteland, the project will pay a nominal compensation of Yuan 100 (about US$12) per mu.
For houseplot land, compensation rates range from Yuan 4,000 (about US$488) to Yuan 6,000 (about
US$732) per mu. To offset any inconveniences for loss of retrieved railway land, the project will pay a flat
rate of Yuan 3,000 (about US$366) per mu.
Compensation rates for affected structures are based on replacement cost and are the same for both
provinces. The rate for residential structures constructed primarily of brick and concrete will be Yuan 330
(about US$ 40) per square meter. For residential structures constructed primarily of brick and wood, the
rate will be Yuan 300 (about US$ 37) per square meter. The rate for commercial or industrial structures
will be Yuan 420 (about US$ 51) per square meter, to reflect relatively higher costs for fixtures and
finishing. Those required to relocate residences also receive additional assistance to offset moving
expenses. Most enterprises are only partially affected and will remain in operation on existing premises.
Two will move to new locations. Any workers who may be affected by any temporary work stoppages will
receive transitional wage support.
In many cases, local authorities may increase compensation rates for acquired land and demolished
structures in response to local variations in property valuation or to meet other local contingencies. In all
cases, however, compensation will meet or exceed standards established in the RAP.
- 101 -



The project also will affect public infrastructure. Compensation based on replacement value will be paid to
the relevant government agencies or local governments to restore the affected infrastructure and services.
Rehabilitation Arrangements
The proposed railworks will pass primarily through relatively remote and sparsely populated rural areas.
In some areas where the proposed alignment follows a river valley, irrigated lands support higher
population densities. The railworks also will affect three urbanized areas (Baoji in Shaanxi Province, and
Tianshui and Lanzhou in Gansu Province). Resettlement planning has included review of impacts on
incomes in three categories: urbanized areas, sparsely populated dry areas, and more densely populated
irrigated areas.
No one will lose wage employment because of the project. In some villages located near urban areas, land
values are increasing while the proportion of income derived from agriculture is declining. Land
redistribution generally is not undertaken in these areas. Instead, most of the persons losing land (many of
whom have reliable alternative sources of income unaffected by the project) prefer to receive a cash
payment. At their option, however, they can receive employment instead (in which case the cash payment
goes to the employer providing the jobs). Funds for economic rehabilitation range from Yuan 7,020 (about
US$856) to Yuan 11,790 (about US$1,438) per person depending on location, which in all cases is more
than three times the net per capita annual income.
In sparsely populated rural areas with dry land cultivation, per capita land holdings are relatively large,
and villages typically have ample land reserves. Land redistribution will be undertaken, resulting in little or
no reduction in per capita holdings. Land compensation and resettlement subsidy funds will be used to
improve agricultural productivity through irrigation development, construction of greenhouses, soil
improvement, and other activities. (As required by Chinese law, the railway also will pay a separate fee to
allow each province to develop new lands for cultivation. It is expected that some of these funds will be
invested in areas near the project, providing an additional source of benefits to affected persons in some
areas.)
For affected persons living in higher density areas (including rural areas relatively close to cities and areas
with ample water for irrigation), two factors generate increased funding for rehabilitation arrangements.
Land compensation rates are higher, reflecting the higher productive value of irrigated land or land used for
vegetable or fruit production. Also, a village-by-village review was undertaken, resulting in increased
resettlement subsidies for villages where per capita land holdings are particularly low. As in more sparsely
populated areas, land redistribution will be undertaken in most of these areas so that all village members
retain access to land, and compensation payments will be used by the village to improve agricultural
production. In any areas where land redistribution is not undertaken, affected individuals will receive
proportional amounts of land compensation and resettlement subsidy directly (or altemative employment if
they prefer).
Institutional Arrangements
In China, the Ministry of Railways has no authority to acquire land through regulatory means, or to
directly implement any resettlement-related measures. Land acquisition authority, and resettlement-related
responsibilities, lie instead with the provinces involved. Under such circumstances, close coordination
between the railway ministry and the provincial land administration bureaus is essential to effective
resettlement.
- 102-



Building on past Bank experience with railway projects in China, MOR and each province have established
a "provincial leading group" to address any issues that may arise during implementation. MOR also has
established an intemal land acquisition and resettlement coordination group to work with provincial-level
authorities on routine matters. A resettlement coordinator also has been appointed within MOR itself.
Coordination is also promoted through creation of a system of resettlement offices in local-level railway
offices that parallels land administration offices within each province.
Because Shaanxi and Gansu provinces are not official project borrowers and are not parties to project
agreements, separate letters of agreement have been obtained in which each province formally agrees to
implement land acquisition and resettlement measures in accordance with RAP standards and procedures.
Through PHRD assistance, the project has supported the development of specific regulations regarding
land acquisition and resettlement by MOR. The Regulations on Land Acquisition, Housing Demolition and
Displaced-Population Resettlement Caused by Railway Construction Projects are intended to provide a
stronger foundation for contracts between MOR and counterpart govenmment agencies responsible for
resettlement implementation. The regulations are expected to be published in 2001, and eventually are
expected to apply to all railway construction activities regardless of sources of financing.
Community Participation and Public Disclosure
Potentially affected communities were consulted during both project design and preparation of the RAP.
Additional formnal and informal consultations were undertaken by city- and county-level land
administration officials. (Formal consultations are listed in the RAP by county and city.)
The consultation process was initiated well before project-related construction began in 2000.
Consultations with potentially affected persons occurred during the process of conducting impact surveys,
which began in June 1998. Affected persons were involved in identifying project-related impacts and in
measuring potential losses of land, structures and other assets. Village-level consultations also took place
in 1999 to review proposed compensation rates and other aspects of the draft RAP, and in 2000 in
response to RAP revisions. The consultation process will continue throughout implementation in
conjunction with resettlement monitoring activities.
Information regarding the project and the resettlement program has been publicly disclosed as required by
Bank policy. The draft RAP is available for public review at the Gansu and Shaanxi provincial
libraries, with notification published in the Gansu Daily on March 2, 2001, and in the Shaanxi
Daily on March 12, 2001. Additionally, the draft RAP was placed in the Bank's Infoshop on April 3,
2001. In addition to formal RAP disclosure, separate camnpaigns have been, or will be, undertaken to
ensure that affected persons are informed about resettlement aspects of direct relevance to them. This
information, published in booklets for distribution to households or in posters for village display, includes
the projected timetable, compensation standards, rehabilitation measures, and information regarding whom
to contact and procedures to be followed for those with complaints.
Resettlement Cost and Implementation Schedule
The cost of land acquisition and implementing resettlement measures is budgeted at Yuan 249.88 million
(about US$30.47 million), including payment of associated fees, monitoring costs and contingency
allowances. Estimated resettlement costs are included in the project budget.
- 103-



Monitoring of Resettlement Implementation
Resettlement implementation will be subject to external project monitoring, to be conducted by a team that
is to function independently of the project owner and provincial resettlement implementing agencies.
External reports will be submitted to MOR and the Bank twice a year for the first two years (when
implementation is at its most intense) and once a year thereafter for the duration of the project. The reports
will review whether implementation is in compliance with RAP terms and will evaluate the effectiveness of
resettlement measures in improving or restoring incomes and living standards.
Because construction has already begun in some areas, the independent monitoring process has started in
advance of formal project approvals. A monitoring report was submitted to the Bank in April 2001. As
already stated, this report indicates that local compensation rates for land and structures meet or exceed
rates established in the RAP. A Bank supervision team supervised the associated resettlement activities in
July 2001.
- 104 -



Table A. Public Participation
Date         Place              Participants                   Contents                      Conclusion
From June    The affected    The first S&D of MOR,        1. Project scope             1. General support for the project
1998 to      houses,        households, persons in charge   2. Materials to be         2. Consent to the methodology of
May 2000    enterprises      of demolition and land       demolished and land          the survey
and            acquisition in affected units  acquisition                3. Consent to the resettlement
institutions                                3. Initial resettlement policy  policy and project outline
and scheme
On May 12,  In Lanzhou and  The MOR, Gansu and Shannxi  1. All kinds of compensation    Initial determiination of all kinds
2000 and on   Xi'an         provincial governments,       policy (suggestions from     of compensation policies,
August 17,                   Lanzhou and Zhenzhou railway  project-affected persons taken   resettlement proposals and project
2000                        bureaus, Gansu and Shannxi    into consideration)          scope
provincial Land Administration  2. Land acquisition, and
Bureaus                      demolition and resettlement
proposals
3. Project scope
May to       In Lanchou and  Lanzhou and Zhengzhou railway Soliciting opinions on      Agreement to compensation rates
August 2000  Xi'an          bureaus, Gansu and Shannxi    compensation rates and       and resettlement proposals;
Province Land Administration   resettlement proposals     compiled the RAP on the basis of
Bureaus, the affected cities and                          conclusions
counties
May to       In the affected   The land administration,   1. Soliciting opinions on    1. Each villages consents to
September    counties, town   govemor of the counties, towns  compensation rates for land  compensation rates.
2000         and villages    and villages, the affected   acquisition and demolition   2. The land acquisition-affected
households and units         2. Labor resettlement        persons will receive a readjusted
proposals after land         allocation of land.
acquisition                  3. Part of the compensation fee will
3. How to spend land         be paid to the affected persons.
compensation fee
November    In Lanzhou and  Lanzhou and Zhengzhou         Further study of problems in    1. Determining resettlement policy
20, 2000     Xi'an          railway bureaus, Gansu and    finalizing the resettlement  and schemes
Shannxi Province Land        policies                     2. The RAP has been complied
Administration Bureaus, the                               with.
affected cities, counties
On March     Gansu and      The public                    Announcing the RAP           Article was welcome.
2, 2001 and   Shannxi
March 12,    Daily
2001
- 105 -



Table B. Policy Disclosure
Document            Means and Language       Date of Disclosure    Telephone Number      Bank Requirementb,
and Location
Information card      Publicized at the same time    When the land    0931-4922177 or        BP 17.50
as the notices for land     acquisition and    4922757
acquisition and demolition  demolition for the    No 156, Peace Road,
for the project are issued  project begins     Lanzhou City;
In Chinese                                      029-2323757,
Railways Commanding
Office
Announcement of the    Gansu Daily                 March 2,2001        13609369704           BP
issuance of the RAP                                                   No 118, Binghe Road,   17.50
Lanzhou;              OP
Shannxi Daily               March 12 ,2001      029-2323757, Railways  4.01
Commanding Office
In Chinese
RAP                   For information             March 2 ,2001 and   0931-4922177 or        BP 17.50
Put in Gansu and Shanxi     March 12, 2001      4922757                OP 4.01
libraries                                      No 156, Peace Road,
Lanzhou City;
In Chinese                                      029-2323757,
Railways Conmmanding
=____________________________________________  =______=_____.______==.=____________,   O ffi ce
- 106 -



Additional
Annex 15
Technical Analysis
CHINA: NATIONAL RAILWAY
The China National Railways project will build a second electrified line of 25 kV for the Bao-Lan railway
line as well as rebuild 28 percent (134 km) of the existing line. The existing railway is a 491-km single
electrified line that passes through mountainous terrain and is a key section of the rail corridor connecting
northwest and central China. The line has relatively sharp curves and it climbs from about 600 m above
mean sea level at Baoji to 2,050 m at its highest point and then descends to 1,530 m of elevation at
Lanzhou. The alignment of the second line reduces the distance between Baoji and Lanzhou to 467 km. The
decision to build a second line was taken because signaling improvements on the existing single line would
not be sufficient to allow the line to accommodate projected traffic growth.
The criteria used to design the alignment of the second line include avoiding problems encountered with the
existing line, technical feasibility, the types of economy that the land supports, a preference for uncultivated
land, and political and social factors. The alignment also was chosen to minimize cost and environmental
and resettlement impacts.
The existing line suffers from several problems, including a sharp curve radius of 300 m, unfavorable
geological conditions, and a course along rivers that leads to the collapse of the subgrade and to flooding.
The project seeks to address these problems in several ways. The project significantly increases the
minimum radius of curves to 800 m (with some exceptions), which permits speeds of up to 120 kmn/h. The
project also will make use of new technology for tunneling and will avoid sites with poor geological
conditions. The alignment of the second line either avoids unfavorable geological zones, or unfavorable
conditions are treated to ensure the safe operation of trains. As a result, the alignment of the second line
does not follow the original alignment for a significant portion of its length. Several options for alignment
were considered and the final alignment was selected on the basis of the above mentioned considerations.
The design capacity of the double-tracked line is 165 pairs of train per day. In 1998, the single line handled
45 pairs of trains, including 14 pairs of passenger trains, but projections indicate that by 2013, 138 pairs of
trains, including 34 passenger trains, will be needed on the Bao-Lan line. Freight traffic is projected to
increase from 20 million tons in 1998 to about 48 million tons in 2013. After the completion of the project
the line will have the capacity for 50 pairs of passenger trains per day and 60 million tons of freight per
year. The additional capacity created by the project will be sufficient to handle the projected growth in
passenger and freight traffic well beyond 2013.
The line is designed with a headway of 8 minutes on both tracks. The receiving and departing line length
will increase from 810 m to 850 m, and maximum freight tonnage will increase from 3,350 t in the up
direction and 2,500 t in the down direction to 4,000 t in both directions. The maximum speed of passenger
train will increase from 90 km/h to 140 krn/h while the maximum speed of freight trains will remain
unaltered at 80 kmn/h. The transit time for passenger trains from Baoji to Lanzhou will be reduced from
about 9 hours to 6 hours and 40 minutes. When the double line is put into operation, time spent by freight
trains waiting for signals will be eliminated to a large extent and the current transit time of 17 hours will be
reduced to 10 hours.
- 107 -



The second line is designed with a ruling gradient of 6 and 13 per thousand for single and
double-locomotive operations respectively. The design of the road bed includes measures to resolve
problems with high embankments, collapsible soils, seriously weathered rock slopes, areas susceptible to
falling rocks, potential erosion areas, and areas prone to land slides. The track will be 60-kg/m fully
heat-treated rail laid on 1,760 prestressed concrete sleepers per kilometer and a ballast cushion of 30-35
cm. At stations, no. 12 turnouts permitting a maximum speed of 45 km/h will be used.
The second line will have 230 bridges, with a combination of very large (>500 m), large (100 m to 500 m)
and medium (20 m to 100 m) bridges, of a total linear length 54.6 km. The existing line has 98 bridges with
a linear length of 15.5 km. The bridges have been designed to withstand 100-year floods. The proposed
second line will have 74 new or enlarged tunnels with a total linear length of 72.7 km (13.6 percent). Of
these, 24 tunnels have a length of more than 1 kin, and the longest tunnel is 3.92 km long.
The design of the track and bridges on the second line will permit the operation of freight wagons with an
axle load of up to 25 tons. This will facilitate the increase of axle load of freight cars at a later date in line
with the conclusions of the CETE study report. The second line will be built to China Railways clearance
design standards for electrified lines and will not permit double-stacked container operation. The decision
not to build to double-stacked container standards was made because the Bao-Lan line is an electrified line
with a large proportion of track passing through tunnels. Furthermore, this is not a corridor on which
enough container traffic is anticipated to justify the additional investment for enlarging the moving
dimensions and tunnels and raising the height of catenary on the new and existing line.
The design of the roadbed, bridges and tunnels is earthquake resistant.
The Bao-Lan line has 73 stations at present. To maximize the capacity of the single line, the average
distance between stations is currently less than 7 km. When the second line is built and automatic blocks
are installed on both lines, it will be possible to push trains at greater intervals, which allows for longer
distances between stations. Upgrading the old line's electrical infrastructure and completing the new track
will allow China Railways to close 32 stations on the Bao-Lan to improve efficiency and reduce costs. The
new average distance between stations will be 12.9 km.
The Lanzhou locomotive depot will provide locomotives for Lanzhou-Baoji passenger service, while
Tinshui depot will provide locomotives for Tinshui-Lanzhou and Tinshui-Baoji passenger trains. West
Lanzhou and Tinshui locomotive depots will provide locomotives for freight services. The project includes
plans for additional facilities at Lanzhou, West Lanzhou, Tianshui and East Baoji locomotive depots to
handle the additional maintenance workload. With more passenger and freight traffic on the line, the
maintenance workload for wagons and passenger coaches will substantially increase. Facilities at Tianshui
and Baoji for freight-wagon repair and at the Lanzhou terminal for the servicing of passenger coaches will
be augmented. By 2008, 67 locomotives and 433 passenger cars will be added.
A twenty-core optical fiber cable for direct burial will be used for long-distance communication. Existing
cables, with some partial replacement, will be used for regional, station and yard communication. The
telephone exchange at Baoji will be enlarged. Digital equipment will be adopted for the communication
system for train dispatching, power dispatching, and traction power supply dispatching.
- 108 -



Automatic blocks capable of 8-minute intervals between train departures will be installed on both lines.
Error-tolerant computerized interlocking equipment will be installed at Baoji, Lanzhou, Tianshui, Longxi
and East Lanzhou. The existing infrared hot box detection system will be extended to cover the second line.
A computerized signal diagnostic system will be set up. A system for monitoring the condition of the line
between stations from dispatching centers at Xi'an and Lanzhou also will be established.
Three 10-kV distribution centers-at Tainshui, Tonganyi and Xianguanying-will be built. Six distribution
centers-at Gansu, Wuwei, Longxi, Dingxi, Gaoai, and Hongshangeng-will be rebuilt and will supply
power to the automatic block system and the electrical through line and stations.
Two additional traction substations at Fulinu and Tianshui will be set up and the capacity of existing
substations augmented. There will be 14 substations in all. Four substations will have a capacity of 50
MVA, eight substations will have a 40-MVA capacity, and two sub-stations will have a capacity of 31.5
MVA. The traction power requirement in 2008 is estimated at 190 MW and in 2013 at 227 MW. MOR
has been asked to provide evidence confirming that power companies will be able to supply the required
electrical load.
The traction substations will be supplied with double 110-kV power lines and two traction
transformers-one operating and the other standby. The equipment connected with the 11 0-kV power
supply source will be autoswitched. The existing traction substations will keep original 1 10-kV
connections, while the new substations will adopt double-T 110-kV connections. Parallel capacitance
compensation devices will be set on the 27.5-kV busbar of traction substations to improve the power factor
and partly filter higher harmonics. Remote control systems will be set up for power dispatch and to manage
and control the power-supply devices. The second line will have autotensioned catenary equipment and
brass contact wires.
The technical design is considered satisfactory and viable. No significant technological difficulties are
anticipated, although it is a challenging engineering project.
- 109 -



Additional
Annex 16
Financial Management Assessment
CIIINA: NATIONAL RAILWAY
Preamble
1.    The objectives of the National Railways Project (the "Project") are to provide: (a) enhanced rail
capacity for both passenger and freight between the northwestern regions of China and the central and
eastern regions; and (b) to further the reform of the railways in China.
2.    The main components of the Project include (a) double-tracking of the Bao-Lan line; and (b)
studies to further the reform of the railways in China.
3.    Total estimated Project cost is approximately US$1.3 billion, including the Bank Loan of US$160
million.
I. Background
4.    This report is the result of a review conducted by Tony Shen, Senior Financial Management
Specialist, EACCF, to determine whether the Project agencies will have in place an adequate financial
management system as required by Bank OP/BP 10.02. The review was performed in accordance with the
following guidelines:
- The Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank Projects
(Central Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region, December 1997);
- Review of Financial Management System (Annex II, LACI Implementation Handbook); and
* Project Financial Management Manual (Loan Department, The World Bank).
5.    The review included site visits and discussion with key project financial/accounting staff. The task
team discussed and reviewed the proposed procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound project
financial management system, including staffing, training, accounting, internal controls, reporting
requirements, auditing and budgeting. They met with the following agencies:
MOR
*   Foreign Capital and Technology Import Center, MOR
*   Finance Department, MOR
*   Construction Management Center, MOR
Bao-Lan Line
* Zhengzhou Railways Administration Bureau (ZRAB)
* Lanzhou Railways Administration Bureau (LRAB)
- 110-



II. Organization of Project Financial Management
Structure ofprojectfinancial management
6.    The Bao-Lan Line will be constructed by the construction management center of both ZRAB and
LRAB. The Finance Department of MOR (for the counterpart funds) and the Foreign Capital and
Technology Import Center (FCTIC) of MOR (for the Bank funds) together will assume overall
responsibility for the financial management aspects of the Project.
Loan disbursement arrangement
7.    An on-lending agreement will be signed between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOR. The
Project will use traditional disbursement techniques and will not use PMR-based disbursements, in
accordance with the agreement reached between the Bank and MOF. The disbursement arrangements of
Bank funds are consistent with those of previous railways projects.
8.    A Special Account will be established by MOR. The FCTIC will be directly responsible for the
management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of the Account. Funds will flow from the Bank to
FCTIC, and onto vendors and contractors.
9.    The Bank loan will be used solely for the purchases of equipment, goods and consulting services
for the Project, and the procurement will be centrally organized and managed by the FCTIC.
Consequently, the FCTIC will be responsible for keeping track of procurement activities for the Project,
maintaining supporting records, and passing copies of transaction records to ZRAB and LRAB for
bookkeeping purpose. In addition, FCTIC will also prepare withdrawal applications and with proper
approval from its chief send them to the Bank for reimbursements.
10.   FCTIC will be responsible for passing copies of procurement records and attributing the
corresponding Bank debts to the regional administrations when equipment, goods, and consulting services
are purchased and transferred. In this way, ZRAB and LRAB will maintain complete records of Project
activities financed by Bank loans. For Project activities financed by counterpart funds, ZRAB and LRAB
will have direct control over expenditures and will be held accountable for maintaining relevant supporting
documentation. The Finance Department of MOR will be responsible for supervising financial and
accounting activities assumed by ZRAB and LRAB in connection with counterpart funds.
11.   The FCTIC is the only party directly involved in the preparation of withdrawal applications. It has
accumulated extensive experience from the seven prior Bank financed railways projects, and is familiar
with disbursement, procurement, financial reporting and auditing requirements of the Bank. To date, the
Bank has not noted any material exceptions made by FCTIC in respect of withdrawal applications.
m. Staffing and Training
12.   Discussions with relevant financial and accounting staff of ZRAB and LRAB showed that ZRAB
has been involved in the financial management aspects of prior Bank railways projects and therefore is
familiar with the Bank's procedures and requirements. However, most of the financial and accounting staff
of ZRAB and LRAB concemed are relatively new to Bank projects. Consequently, well-designed and
focused training needs to be provided before Project implementation by the Finance Department of MOR
and FCTIC to all relevant staff members to ensure a sufficient degree of familiarity with Bank
- 111 -



requirements so that they can fulfill their responsibilities. In addition, the Bank task team will provide
training in project financial management when needed.
13.   After reviewing the training program prepared by MOR, we noted that all relevant topics have
been properly included, and that the staff who will participate in the training have been identified. The
following topics will be covered in the training program:
* Bank procedures and requirements for the withdrawal of Bank funds
* Format and content of the standard set of financial statements and the timing of submission
* Project and enterprise audit requirements
* Bank policies on project financial management
*   Relevant accounting regulations and circulars issued by MOF, as compiled and updated by MOR
The training program is expected to take place before project implementation. The financial management
and disbursement unit of the Bank's Beijing office will participate in the program to address some key
areas of the Bank's financial management and disbursement policies and requirements.
14.   We further noted that ZRAB and LRAB have already been staffed with adequate staff with staff
who have the right combination of financial and accounting skills and work experience. The construction
management centers of both ZRAB and LRAB have been responsible for railway construction projects
initiated by MOR or themselves for years and consequently, they also have been staffed with qualified
financial and accounting personnel.
15.    From discussions with the Finance Department of MOR, we noted that detailed financial and
accounting regulations or circulars (updated on an annual basis) have been issued by MOR to all financial
and accounting departments throughout the MOR system to provide guidance on the various operational
aspects of construction projects, such as:
a) Financial Management of Construction Project;
b) Cost Accounting for Railways Construction Project;
c) Accounting for Project Management Fees; and
d) Fixed Asset Management
We noted that sets of these regulations and circulars are kept at ZRAB and LRAB, and that they are proper
and consistent with description in Section IV below.
IV. Financial and Accounting System
16.   In addition to referenced regulations and circulars, the administration, accounting and reporting of
the Project will be set up in accordance with the following guidelines issued by MOF:
a) In line with other Bank financed railway projects in China, the Project will use the "Accounting
Standards Applicable to State-owned Construction Projects (the 'Standards')" issued by MOF as a
basis for bookkeeping and preparation of project financial management reports. Accrual accounting
and double-entry bookkeeping will be adopted by the Project. The financial and accounting staff of the
Project is familiar with the Standards, because the Standards also apply to other MOR construction
projects financed by non-Bank funds.
- 112-



b) Circular #12: "Regulations for the Submission of Withdrawal Applications" issued in December
1996 by MOF. The circular includes detailed procedures for preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications and retention of supporting documentation; and
c) Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued in January 2000
by MOF. The circular is modeled after the Standards, providing detailed guidelines for accounting
treatment and covering the following:
* Chart of account
* Detailed accounting instructions for each account
* Standard set of project financial statements
* Instructions on the preparation of project financial statements
The Bank and MOF have agreed to the standard set of project financial statements mentioned above. This
set of statements applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:
*   Balance sheet
*   Statement of source and use of fund
*   Statement of implementation of credit/loan agreement
*   Statement of special account
17.   Circular #13 is a simplified version of the Standards that takes into consideration of the unique
characteristics of Bank projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles of Intemational
Accounting Standards and provide detailed guidelines on accounting for project activities in an
infrastructure oriented project.
V. Internal and Other Controls
18.   A well-designed intemal control system (both administrative and accounting) is one of the key
elements critical to the success of a project. Following the review of various regulations issued by MOR,
we noted that sufficient controls have been built into the administrative and accounting control systems for
the major areas of operation. The controls have the following features:
a) A system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project reporting
adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets, schedules and
technical performance;
b) Delegation of duties; and
c) Timely and accurate financial and management reporting.
VI. Reporting Requirements
19.   This Project will use the standard formats agreed to by MOF and the Bank for consolidated
financial statements. In terms of reporting cycle, the consolidated financial statements will be submitted
biannually (no later than October 1 and April 1 respectively) to the Bank and will include the following:
*   Balance Sheet;
*   Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
*   Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement; and
*   Statement of Special Account.
- 113-



In addition, the following MOR annual financial statements must be audited and submitted together with
the audit reports of the project:
* Balance sheet
* Income statement
* Statement of fund flows
FCTIC, ZRAB and LRAB will maintain original supporting documents and keep books for transactions
incurred for the Project. The Finance Department of MOR will be responsible for coordinating and
consolidating project financial statements submitted separately by FCTIC, ZRAB and LRAB.
VII. Audit Arrangements
20.   The Bank requires the Project to have its annual project financial statements audited in accordance
with standards acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the Project will
be audited in accordance with the Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997
edition). The China National Audit Office and its residence offices have been identified as auditors for the
Project as follows:
* MOR portion - China National Audit Office
* Bao-Lan Line - Offices of CNAO in Zhengzhou and Lanzhou
Annual audit reports on the financial statements of MOR and the Project will be due to the Bank within six
months of the end of each reporting year, with a separate opinion on statements of expenses and the special
account.
VIII. Budgeting
21.   The annual budget for the Project will be prepared by the Construction Management Center of
MOR according to project funding needs and physical progress reports prepared by ZRAB and LRAB and
then submitted to the State Development and Planning Commission for approval. In addition, the
construction management centers of both ZRAB and LRAB will prepare a monthly budget, based on the
approved annual budget, physical progress reports on construction in the previous months, and expected
construction work for the following month. The monthly budget then becomes the basis for requesting
funding from MOR.
ZRAB and LRAB will also compare the budgets to the actual amounts spent on a monthly basis and report
major deviations. In addition, we have advised the project that any major changes to the original plan
requires prior review and approval fromn the Bank.
IX. Proposed actions
22.  As noted above, financial and accounting staff in the implementing agencies should receive training
and/or participate in the project launch workshop before project implementation. See Table Al 6.1 for the
proposed action plan.
- 114-



X. Conclusion
23.    The Bank task team has determined that if the needed training is provided to the staff in the
implementing agencies, the project will satisfy the Bank's financial management requirements stipulated in
OP/BP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the project will have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the Project and as required by the Bank.
Table A16.1   Proposed Action Plan
Description                                    Borrower             Bank            Target Date
Responsibility    Responsibility
A. Training
1. Project launch workshop or financial,    Finance Dept,      FMS,               Before project
management seminar completed for all related  MOR, FCTIC,      Disbursement,     implementation
staff on the following topics:              ZRAB, and          Officer, World
LRAB              Bank Office in
Beijing (WBOB)
a) Bank procedures and requirements for the
withdrawal of Bank funds
b) Format and content of the standard set of
project financial statements and timing of
submission
c) Project Financial Management System
Manual
d) Project and entity audit requirement
B. Special Account
1. Obtain domestic clearance for opening SA  FCTIC             Disbursement,     Before
officer, WBOB     withdrawal of
initial deposit
2. Open corresponding RMB bank account      FCTIC              Disbursement,      Before
officer, WBOB      withdrawal of
initial deposit
3. Submit authorized signature to MOF and   FCTIC              Disbursement,      Before
then to Bank                                                   officer, WBOB      withdrawal of
initial deposit
-115-



- 116-



100&                              110                                 120                                  30
Tlneaa.pa'-sp,nd-cd fyfh
C  H  I N  A                                                                                Mop Dasngn Ufni of The Worfd -ank
~~~~~~~~~~The honndnn,a, nola:,aoo,;dnaomnon,
RAILWAY   SYSTEM                                                                   r                  andn. - yher ilaPr  - a. P,s n,
anh. loYal BstaGtusP of-y argr,rato
EXISTING:                                                                                            - ny ndarsemansa acceptanceo at-
DOUBLE TRACK RAILROADS                                                                                                      0-- annul ones
-        SINGLE TRACK RAILROADS                               .
. . . . . ELECTRIFICATION                                             hordag,                                     RUSSIAN FED
K     NATIONAL MARSHALLING YARDS                                       q                                       RSI    FED,
O     REGIONAL MARSHALLING YARDS                                                           ,
S     PORTS                                                                                                                     p1
t)    RIVER PORTS                                                                                    WU,ih                       \
_ SELECTED CITIES
     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                  houli      hor                                            baunO         C
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                       HJK- 
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                              N-h./             -go- rnoohho-, RT
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                           HA_ MmnYInM  Giqihor
------ PLANNED NEW RAILWAYS:                                 /N $Xroh:                            AMa      HFlONGJI  NC
BANK FUNDED PROJECTS:
RAILWAY LINES ONGOING OR COMPLETED PROJECTS)                                              H. aL
*       - v - ELECTRIFICATION
A BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
A      FACTORIES
*     TERMINALS
....   PIZPROPOSED PROJECT
M    0   N   G   0    L   I  A                      Eenhaf
Ci,                                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'  I  fArce  Xf      and PE Z:-o
We  . Ah;..;.,n                               ;                                              . . ": 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RP.O
CAN''7;hS U    X    nBgEhuort               Yu                Shngo      -jaay      -zL                            --          
-; < ~~~~~Tronshuio _TA    P -Aa                                        0j~u$  *-   -q
QN G 
S        A  N  U'           oj-'                   t          N   h              h  inna
5 nhag                    D                                                  I
S.~~~~~~~~~~~.
S.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~1
S v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AT~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~c                                         
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
THAILAND  $                           f-IAINA~~~N A
-o                               -a-.                                                                                        PHLIPIj
o  100'~~~~~~~~~G                   HOU.e N.






/                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  H  IN  A                              RUSSIAN FED-RATIN
A9 /2vsOve aa2;XBAOJI TO LANZHOU RAIL LINE
vanzh~                  0s4 g~ H  BAOLAN PROPOSED LINE                                                                  RIVERS M   O   LV                      G O  L I A
----  BAOLAN EXISTING LINE                          BUILT-UP AREAS                         G                         S,II* Nt
7   STATIONS                                 0   CITIES AND TOWNS                  -                 n      _
ROADS                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES             '     I
t7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               - Arr, ci ma  r, <         ,,1AKIOETR
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D   20   30   40   5 ,X'ss0
Luomen  Gangu ~~~~ n                          "'NXNROV~~C
 I '/  'vt  \ [, ' h; >vNagv<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jt ,
1 0 ~~~This map wasproduced by theMap Design Unit f The World Bon 9                                                                                                    i asgiah.at  aBNi--
*  \./   \            I~~~~he boundaries, colors, denaminatious and anyather information shown                             Yan jiacftuavn                          o                r
/ ; ~~~~~~~~~on this mop do not imply, on the partrof The World Bank Group, anyJ  \  r  - 
.-   ''' judgment on the leal statusofanytrrioryioranyendorsementor                                        n            /       20   30 ,      
o                                               a   cceptance of such boundaries.                                     ,q               r            
KILOMETERS~~~~~N



