Report No. PID8507
Project Name                     China-National Railway
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Railways
Project ID                       CNPE58846
Borrower(s)                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS
Address: Foreign Capital and
Technical Import Center (FCTIC)
Ministry of Railways,
10 Fuxing Road, Beijing, China
Contact Person: Mr. Yang Haichang,
Director, FCTIC
Tel: 86-10-63248406
Fax: 86-10-63241845
Email: FCTICZH@ns.chinamor.cn.net
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                November 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 27, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 29, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government of China (GOC) has committed itself to the reform of all
State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), of which China Railway's is one of the
largest. In the Outline of the Tenth Five-Years Plan For National
Economic And Social Development ( Approved by the Fourth Session of the
Ninth National People's Congress on March 15,2001), it is stated that the
purpose of the government is"To accelerate the reform of transportation
management system and operation mechanism with the core focus on the
separation of the government functions and the enterprise functions,
railways will "separate infrastructure from transport operations",...."MOR
submitted a general plan for reform to the State Council in early 2000.
This plan is still under discussion within government. The challenges
faced by MOR are not dissimilar to those which have had to be addressed by
other governments who have sought to reform their railway systems, these
are: clarity of the government and enterprise functions, market focus,
creation and management of competition, and the definition and reshaping
of private/public boundaries. However, there are six major factors which
make this task particularly challenging in China: First, China's large
size and scarcity of infrastructure mean that rail services are a critical
part of both the freight and passenger transport networks (56 percent of
freight ton-km and 37 percent of passenger-km go by rail). Given the
importance of the rail services, the transition will have to be conducted
with great care to reduce the risk of disruption of service. Second,
Chinese railways are still facing capacity shortages and surplus demand,
so system expansion needs will remain important and regulatory issues will
remain significant. Chinese railways generate the highest traffic density



in the world, and the needs for continuing expansion are well
supported.Third, Government looks to rail revenues to pay for a
significant portion of the required capital outlays. However, as some of
the new lines are justified by social and/or strategic considerations,
rather than by commercial needs, public funding may be required.Fourth,
the railway face an increasingly competitive future. Despite the fact
that China's Railways still carry a major share of freight and passenger
traffic (measured in tonne kilometers and passenger kilometers,
respectively), they are facing increased competition from all other modes
of transport. In round figures they have lost 1% of their market share
every year since 1978. Most obviously road traffic, both freight and
passengers, is increasing very rapidly as the network of inter-city
expressway expands, with about 15,000 km. already completed and a planned
network of 35,000 km. due to be completed by 2010. MOR faces a particular
challenge in the freight sector where their old-style production
orientation has limited their ability to compete for higher value
traffic. Moreover, the lack of demand sensitive pricing deprives MOR of
the earnings needed to invest in better service capability. If MOR cannot
rapidly adapt to the new competitive conditions, their market share for
all but bulk cargos will continue to erode.Fifth, the financial position
of the railways has deteriorated over the last decade. Between 1994 and
1998, the China Railways group (CR) recorded a Yuan 6.7 billion increase
in operating income (revenues less operating expenses). However, this
gain has been eliminated by the Yuan 9.3 billion growth in non-operating
outlays. The bulk of this growth (88 percent) is associated with the rise
in interest costs. Thus, the sharp jump in interest expenses has had the
effect of dissipating whatever gains CR has been able to achieve from
increased revenues and reducing the funds available for operational
purposes. Sixth, the existing technical and managerial standards are below
Western levels, with much of MOR's technology related most closely to
1960s and 1970s practices in the West. The restructuring effort will have
to upgrade technical and managerial capabilities and information as well
as commercial techniques. Fortunately, the establishment of the
Transportation Management Information System (TMIS), financed under the
Railway VI and VII project is being completed just as it will become
critically important in supporting improved management and system
analyses.In a similar vein, OED commented in a recent report (Transport in
China - an Evaluation of World Bank Assistance", January 11, 1999) that:
"Despite major capacity expansion and changes in market structure, the
railways are still unable to meet the demands of a liberalized and
decentralized economy. Many bottlenecks remain in the economically active
coastal areas, and access to the railway system in the inner provinces is
sparse. Capacity alone will not address these problems. Accelerating the
institutional restructuring and policy development, which simultaneously
increases system capacity and inter-model transport facilities and
improves customer service, will be required to help China's railways
compete with other modes of transport".The general approach to future
reform of railways in China is expected to be based on two principles, the
separation of government functions from enterprise functions, and the
separation of infrastructure from operations. Change is likely to proceed
in a number of stages: Separation of railway operations from the other
businesses which were under the tutelage of MOR (now substantially
completed);Establishment of passenger transport enterprises (PTE) in four
"minor" Administrations (i.e. Administrations with no sub-Administrations)
and; Extension the passenger enterprise separation at least on an
-2 -



accounting basis to the other 10 Administrations of MOR and carry out
accounting separation of infrastructure from freight;Regroup the PTEs in
accord with criteria yet to be agreed to create between three and five
viable enterprises;Regroup the FTEs in accordance with the lessons learned
from the accounting separation of infrastructure and the establishment of
the passenger enterprises. It is not clear how many FTEs will result,
probably three to six; Full Separation of infrastructure from operations
(known in China as "Up/Down" separation). This is likely to be
accompanied by regrouping of the infrastructure entities into a limited
number of asset management companies; In addition, at some stage,
government must also clearly divorce itself from operations. More details
on the reform process in the railways in China are included in Annexes 11
and 12.Some longer term implications for the diversified ownership of
railway servicesThese are numerous but are likely to include:Spin-off of
non-rail activities. MOR has spun off a number of manufacturing
activities (manufacturing of locomotives, wagons, coaches, signals and
other components) which had previously been operated within the MOR
aegis. Though these have mostly been established as government owned
enterprises, they will all eventually be privatized as none of them has a
particularly critical policy function.Contracting-out of services. Many
rail activities can be contracted more economically than they can be done
in-house. Potential for contracting-out includes major activities such as
track maintenance, locomotive, wagon and coach maintenance as well as
smaller jobs such as station or office cleaning.Concessioning or
Franchising. Concessioning and franchising will emerge as alternatives
for a number of the operating functions on the separated infrastructure.
For example, the potential system-wide freight (or passenger) companies
could well be operated as concessions. If the FTEs are initially set up
to operate over regional infrastructure agencies, they could take the form
of franchises with limited territories (as in the U.K.), and the stock in
the companies holding the franchises could eventually be sold in part or
in whole.Private Ownership and or Management. At least some private
operators will be allowed under license, as an alternative to
franchising. In addition, worldwide there is emerging interest from
railway companies in leasing assets from the private sector, with and
without value added services such as maintenance. The rail system in China
would be an enormous potential market. Two particularly promising and
immediate opportunities will arise with the creation of the system-wide
container company and a company which will own freight wagons and lease
them for rail use. Both of these companies reflect MOR's growing
sophistication and determination to look outside the public sector for
capital: they also illustrate the difficulty in creating such institutions
within the existing framework of MOR.For the record, China already has a
partly privately held railway company which operates both freight and high
speed passenger services between Guangzhou and Shenzhen (The Guangshen
Railway Company - listed as GSH). There are also many smaller railways
that are joint ventures between MOR and various Provincial or local
government agencies. Several of these railways have attempted to sell
some of their shares to private investors, and it is likely that either
MOR or the local agencies will be even more interested in doing so in the
future.
2. Objectives
This project will have two objectives:(a) to increase the capacity of the
railway network between eastern and western China; and (b) to support the
- 3 -



reform program of China Railways
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The continuation of the Bank's dialogue with MOR on reform will be the
major benefit of the project. We have extensive knowledge of the
railway-reform activities in other countries that we can leverage for
China's benefit. MOR knows that any mistakes could be very costly given
the strategic importance of the railway. We can also assist MOR in
developing analytical tools and information systems so that China's reform
process can be planned and managed as effectively as possible. This also
an investment project. In this regard, the Bank will provide financing to
help remove an important bottleneck in the national railway system and
increase traffic capacity between the eastern and western regions of
China.
4. Description
This project will improve access to transport, strengthen economic growth
and reduce poverty in the northwest of China while supporting efforts to
reform China Railways. There are two parts to the project: Expansion of
railway capacity. This project will finance the expansion of a key
east-west railway corridor between Baoji and Lanzhou (Bao-Lan line) by
double-tracking and upgrading the existing line.Assistance with the reform
of China Railways. MOR will use technical assistance provided under the
project to carry out the following:
-- A study to develop a cost model for the PTE in Kunming
-- A study to establish pilot railway PTEs in larger administrations with
sub-bureaus
-- A study to establish a wagon-ownership enterprise
-- The development of an integrated planning and costing tool to
facilitate the establishment of line-of-business operations.
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
IBRD                              160.00
Total Project Cost               1302.24
6. Implementation
Implementation period. Upgrading of the Bao-Lan line began in March 2001
and is expected to continue until March 2004. Some limited site-clearance
activities have taken place, and certain civil engineering works on the
line between Lanzhou and Tianshui were carried out in 2000. The policy
reform studies will be implemented between 2002 and 2005. These time
estimates are based on the draft implementation, procurement, and
disbursement schedules for each component received by the Bank on June 19,
2001. Executing Agency. The Foreign Capital and Technical Import Center
(FCTIC) in MOR has overall responsibility for project preparation,
implementation coordination, and oversight. To fulfill this role, the
FCTIC must work closely with the railway survey and design institutes, the
railway construction bureaus, the tendering companies and several
departments in MOR headquarters in Beijing and with the railway
administrations. Finance. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will on-lend World
Bank funds to MOR on the same conditions as the Bank loan to the MOF. The
loan type will be a LIBOR-based floating rate single currency (US$) loan
(VSCL), with 20-year maturity, including a 5-year grace period. The 1
percent front-end fee will be financed from the loan.Financial management.
- 4 -



Management of project finances will be the responsibility of the Finance
Division of FCTIC and the finance divisions of the Zhengzhou and Lanzhou
Railway Administration Bureaus. Specifically, FCTIC will be responsible
for maintaining, monitoring and reconciling the special account to be set
up for the project, preparing withdrawal applications and payment
requests. While the Finance Department of MOR will oversee the
counterpart fund arrangements for the project, the financial divisions of
the two railway administrations will be responsible for collecting
supporting documents, monitoring contract payments, maintaining accounts
of project activities, and preparing project financial statements.
Disbursements. The project funds will be disbursed using traditional (not
PMR-based) techniques, in accordance with an agreement between the Bank
and the MOF.Audit Arrangements. As with other Bank-financed projects in
China, the Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the China National Audit
Office (CNAO) (established in 1983 as the State Audit Administration) will
have overall responsibility for auditing the accounts of the project. The
CNAO resident offices in Zhengzhou and Lanzhou will conduct the actual
audits. The Bank currently accepts audits performed under the supervision
and responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the financial statements of the
project and MOR, and the audit of the special account and statements of
expenditures will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
each financial year. Resettlement and environmental supervision and
monitoring. As described in more detail in Section E5, the Zhengzhou and
Lanzhou Railway Administration Bureaus will be responsible for the
implementation of the environmental plans and policies. Oversight will be
provided by the Shaanxi and Gansu Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs)
and the State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA). MOR has
appointed a resettlement coordinator, and the local land administration
bureaus in Shaanxi and Gansu Provinces will be responsible for
implementing the agreed resettlement plans. Systematic monitoring of the
implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will be undertaken by
a qualified institute independent of the project owner and provincial
implementing agencies. Progress reporting and planning. FCTIC will be
responsible for preparing quarterly and annual progress reports, including
annual implementation plans. The quarterly reports will focus on physical
and financial progress, outline implementation problems for all
components, and suggest corrective actions. The annual progress report
will be used to review the progress achieved in the preceding year, update
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), and draw up the implementation plan
for the following year. World Bank supervision arrangements. The project
has been prepared by a team based in both Beijing and Washington and led
from Beijing, and a similar team will supervise the project. The team
includes specialists to supervise the financial management systems,
procurement activities, disbursement, and the implementation of
resettlement and environmental plans. The supervision plan includes a
project launch workshop and two formal supervision missions every year,
including an annual review mission. A mid-term review of the project is
scheduled for the second half of 2004.
7. Sustainability
The physical sustainability of this investment is not in doubt.
Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed railway projects in
China confirms MOR's commitment to the physical implementation of its
projects. MOR has the ability to build and operated the asset and has
provided timely and sufficient maintenance funding for its existing
- 5 -



infrastructure.Traffic volumes on the railways in China are expected to
continue to grow. EIRR calculations of completed railway projects in
China at the time of loan closing--when the railway financed by the loan
has been in operation for a few years--frequently show higher values than
at the time of project appraisal. The impact of the Bank funded support
for Railway reform in China is likely to be greater today than it has ever
been. The momentum behind the reform effort and the thirst for knowledge
are very great
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The client and the Bank have drawn valuable lessons from preparing and
implementing past railway projects, which have been taken into account in
the preparation of this railway project. First, a project should not
include components to which the client is not fully committed. This can
lead to the restructuring of the project, as was the case with Railways
VII. Second, including too many components in a project (as was the case
in Railways VI and VII) affects implementation negatively because both the
client and the Bank have limited resources for supervision and
implementation.Third, when designing and implementing project components,
the project office, railway staff in MOR in Beijing, and railway staff in
the administrations need to work with each other very closely to implement
the project efficiently. Fourth, the policy dialogue on reform and
restructuring of the railways cannot include only staff in the project
office. Senior MOR staff with decision-making responsibilities need to
participate in these discussions. (Substantive discussions on reform have
been held during project preparation with the minister, vice ministers and
other senior management staff).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The initial Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
for the project was undertaken by the China Academy of Railway Sciences
(CARS), with assistance from the Ministry of Railway No. 1 Survey and
Design Institute for the Bao-Lan line. In December 1999, MOR retained AGRA
Earth and Environmental Limited (later renamed AMEC Earth and
Environmental Limited), an independent consulting firm, to review and
finalize the EA reports.    The double-tracking and upgrading of the
Bao-Lan line through difficult terrain will be challenging
environmentally, with pockets of unstable material, and the possibility of
landslides, erosion and safety concerns. Adverse impacts during the
construction phase of the project include:Noise from construction
equipment, transport vehicles, and construction operationsPublic health
concerns from the disposal of solid wastesLand acquisition, resettlement
and rehabilitation. Handling, transport and disposal of construction
materials.During the operational phase, noise from trains (running wheels,
whistles and shunting of locomotives) may have moderate to high residual
impacts, as will an increased power demand from the potential development
of the region. The selected route for the Bao-Lan line avoids
settlements, populated areas and geologically unstable terrain as much as
possible. To minimize and mitigate noise-related impacts during
construction and operation, the EMP includes a number of measures such as:
Limiting construction to between 8:30 a.m. And 6:00 p.m.Building temporary
and permanent noise barriers at sensitive locationsRelocating families,
schools, and hospitalsInstalling double-glazed windowsPlanting
- 6 -



treesLimiting the use of train whistles and speed in built-up and
sensitive areas.To minimize the potential for landslides, the Bao-Lan line
will avoid areas of poor geology and incorporate bridges and tunnels to
avoid making slope cuts. The project design also calls for appropriate
drainage and retaining walls and other slope-stabilization techniques.
Where possible, sewage will be discharged into existing municipal
treatment systems; at other stations, sewage treatment plants will be
installed. Selected boilers will be fitted with filters to remove
particulates. In addition, the EMP provides for training and extensive
monitoring during both construction and operation.The EA identified 29
cultural relic sites in the western section (Shaanxi) and 19 in the
eastern section (Gansu). In the western section, 14 of the 29 sites were
excluded by the local archeological authority (The Institute of Cultural
Relics and Archeology of the Gansu Province) as being insignificant and
the other 15 were excavated by the authorities before approval was given
for construction. For the eastern section, of the 19 sites identified by
the EA, 16 sites were avoided by shifting the alignment. The remaining
three sites are being excavated by the Institute of Archeology of Shaanxi
Province before approval for construction is given.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Richard G. Scurfield
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458 8344
Fax:        202 522 3223
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Dec. 21, 2001
- 7 -



