Page  1
December 20, 2000
Mr. Xiang Huaicheng
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
RE:
Japanese Grant TF 029702 (National Railway Project)
       Bank-executed Part
Amendment to Grant Agreement
Dear Sir:
I refer to the Grant Agreement for the National Railway Project (Bank-executed 
Part) between People’s Republic of China and the Bank, dated April 18, 1997 as amended 
by a letter agreement dated December 6, 1999 (the Grant Agreement).  I further refer 
to the communication dated June 1, 2000 from the Ministry of Railways requesting that 
the Kunming Administration be substituted for the Nanchang Administration in 
connection with the technical assistance for the establishment of a passenger 
transport enterprise.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs with your request.  To give 
effect thereto, Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement, Description of Technical 
Assistance, is hereby amended by replacing the words "Nanchang Administration" 
wherever they appear therein with the words "Kunming Administration." 
In addition, Section 1.03 of the Grant Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
"Section 1.03.  the Consultants are expected to commence their services 
by November 1, 1999 and complete by June 30, 2001."
Except as hereby amended, all provisions of the Grant Agreement otherwise remain 
in full force and effect.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
our receipt of a countersigned copy of (i) this Letter Agreement and (ii) and the 
letter agreement amending the grant agreement for the National Railway Project for the 
Recipient-executed Part, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date 
hereof.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED and AGREED
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Page  2
Authorized Representative
Title Deputy Director General
Date:
December 22, 2000
