                                   Document of
                                 the World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000156




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-46480)




                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$160 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

                          NATIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT




                                  June 18, 2008




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and the Pacific Region

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective August 14, 2007)

            Currency Unit = RMB (Chinese Yuan Renminbi)
                         RMB1.00 = US$0.13
                          US$1.00 = RMB7.80

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 ­ December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy
CR     China Railways
EAP    Environmental Action Plan
EASTE  East Asia Transport, Energy and Mining Sector
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IT     Information Technology
KPI    Key Performance Indicator
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MOR    Ministry of Railways
NA     Not Available
NDRC   National Development and Reform Commission
NPV    Net Present Value
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
PMO    Project Management Office
RA     Regional (Railway) Administration
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
RIS    Railway Investment Study
RMB    Renminbi (China's currency)
TA     Technical Assistance


              Vice President:     Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
            Country Director:     Mr. David R. Dollar, EACCF
             Sector Manager:      Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
          Task Team Leader:       Mr. John Scales, EASCS
          ICR Team Leader:        Mr. John Scales, EASCS

                                                   CHINA
                                  CN-National Railway Project




                                               CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 19
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 27
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28

 MAPS
       1. China Railway Network (IBRD 35662)
       2. Baoji to Lanzhou Rail Line (IBRD 31717)

Note: The following Annexes are not applicable to this project:
      Beneficiary Survey Results
      Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
      Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

A. Basic Information

                                                                     CN-Natl Railway
Country:                China                  Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P058846                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-46480
ICR Date:               06/26/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 160.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 153.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Railways, Foreign Capital & Technical Import Center
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/25/1999     Effectiveness:        04/30/2002        04/30/2002
Appraisal:             11/27/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/29/2002    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              12/31/2006        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  1                 1
Railways                                                          93                93
Telecommunications                                                 6                 6


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Corporate governance                                            Secondary        Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development           Primary          Primary
Regulation and competition policy                               Secondary        Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          David R. Dollar                    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez           Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       John Carter Scales                  Graham Smith
ICR Team Leader:           John Carter Scales
ICR Primary Author:        Jitendra Sondhi
                           Richard G. Bullock



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
This project had two objectives: (a) to increase the capacity of the railway network
between eastern and western China; and (b) to support the reform program of China
Railways. To this end the project was a conventional infrastructure investment project,
whose main component was to double-track a bottleneck section of the main line linking
the north China plain with northwestern China, where the line passes through a range of
mountains. Technical assistance on issues of reform for the whole national railway
system made up the other component.



                                                 ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the
Project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   For Bao-Lan Line: Passenger Train Pairs
Value
quantitative or 14                        19                                  22
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                          12/31/2004
Comments        The target for 2004 of 19 pairs of trains was exceeded, as 22 pairs of passenger
(incl. %        trains were operated, achieving 116% performance. In 2005, 26 pairs of trains
achievement)    were operated against a target of 29 pairs for 2008.
Indicator 2 :   For Bao-Lan line: Freight Volume (Ton-Km, million)
Value
quantitative or 10,298                    14,467                              18,745
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                          12/31/2004
Comments        The target for 2004 of 14,467 million ton km was exceeded, as 18,745 million
(incl. %        ton-km output was achieved (121%). The target for 2008 at 19,821 is expected
achievement)    to be exceeded.
Indicator 3 :   For Bao-Lan Line: Passenger Volume (Person-Km, million)
Value
quantitative or 5,432                     6,941                               7,663
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                          12/31/2004
Comments        The target for 2004 of 6,941 million person-km was exceeded, as 7,663 million
(incl. %        person-km output was achieved (110%). The target for 2008 at 8,752 million
achievement)    person-km is also expected to be exceeded.
Indicator 4 :   For Bao-Lan Line: Freight Intensity (Ton-km per Line-km, million
Value
quantitative or 20.85                     29.7                                38.5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                          12/31/2004
Comments        The target for 2004 of 29.7 was exceeded by achieved intensity of 38.5 (129%).
(incl. %        The target for 2008 at 40.7* is expected to be exceeded. (*Due to typo, PAD
achievement)    shows 2008 target as 10.718. It should be read as 40.718)
Indicator 5 :   For Bao-Lan Line: Average Freight Train Speed/up (Km/Hour
Value
quantitative or 23.5                      49.6                                39.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                          12/31/2004



                                                iii

Comments
(incl. %        The performance for 2004 at 39.4 km/h is lower than target of 49.6 km/h (80%)
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   For Bao-Lan Line: Average Freight Train Speed/down (Km/Hour)
Value
quantitative or 24.7                      46.5                              42.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                        12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        The performance for 2004 at 42.3 km/h is lower than the target of 46.5 km/h

achievement)    (91%)

Indicator 7 :   For Bao-Lan Line: Average Passenger Train Speed/up
Value
quantitative or 45.7                      68.5                              65.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                        12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        The performance in 2004 at 65.3 km/h is lower than the target of 68.5 km/h

achievement)    (95%)

Indicator 8 :   For Bao-Lan Line: Average Passenger Train Speed/down
Value
quantitative or 46.5                      69.1                              76.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                        12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        The performance in 2004 at 76.3 km/h exceeds the target of 69.1 km/h (110%).

achievement)    (* 16.5 in the PAD is a typo. It should read 46.5)

Indicator 9 :   Railway Reform Plan approved by State Council
Value                                     Railway Reform
quantitative or not applicable            Plan approved by                  Partially achieved
Qualitative)                              State Council.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2002                        12/31/2004
Comments        Instead of approving the Railway Reform Plan submitted in 2001, the State
(incl. %        Council directed MOR to focus on providing needed capacity while taking
achievement)    pragmatic steps towards reform.
Indicator 10 : Pilot independent PTEs established
Value
quantitative or not applicable            Pilot independent                 Achieved but later

Qualitative)                              PTEs established.                 superseded.

Date achieved 12/31/1998                  06/30/2002                        12/31/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Independent PTE were established in 2003. Later, MOR decided to replace these

achievement)    with accounting separation of passenger services.

Indicator 11 : Implementation program for creation of wagon ownership company announced.

Value                                     Announce an

quantitative or not applicable            implementation                    Not achieved.
Qualitative)                              program for the
                                          creation of a



                                                 iv

                                           wagon ownership
                                           company.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2003                      01/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Plan for establishing wagon ownership company was not implemented. Wagons

achievement)    are owned by MOR and user RAs pay rental for wagon usage.

Indicator 12 : Commitment for developing capability of integrated planning and costing tool
                                           Commit to

Value                                      develop the

quantitative or not applicable             capability of an                Partially achieved
Qualitative)                               integrated
                                           planning and
                                           costing tool.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   09/30/2003                      12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        RIS (III) planning model was developed (2003/04) under a simultaneous Bank

achievement)    loan and implemented that enhanced the planning capability.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                    Achieved at
                                                approval        Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values  Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Lanzhou to Tianshui Line:
                completion of double tracking (%)
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2003                      06/30/2003
Comments
(incl. %        The double tracking was completed six months ahead of target.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Lanzou to Tianshui Line:
                completion of electrification (%)
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%                            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2003                      06/30/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Electrification was completed ahead of target.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Tianshui to Baoji Line:
                completion of double tracking (%)
Value
(quantitative   0%                         100%                            100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2004                      06/30/2003



                                                v

Comments
(incl. %       The double tracking was completed 18 months ahead of target.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Tianshui to Baoji Line:
               completion of electrification (%)
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%                             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                  12/31/2004                       06/30/2003
Comments
(incl. %       The electrification was completed 18 months ahead of target.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                      IP                Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     05/14/2002           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     1.60
  2     12/18/2002           Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory                79.15
  3     06/17/2003           Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory               102.87
  4     12/16/2003           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   119.90
  5     06/21/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   126.39
  6     12/23/2004           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   133.93
  7     05/27/2005           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   134.68
  8     03/17/2006           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   136.66
  9     03/30/2007      Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   151.84



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (16321-CHA, February 27, 1997) included as
priorities the reduction of infrastructure bottlenecks and assistance to SOEs as they make
the transition from a command to a market-based economy. This project, which sought to
remove a major transport bottleneck on a key east-west corridor and to provide assistance
in the reform of China Railways, responded explicitly to these two CAS priorities. It was
also in line with the Bank strategy for the Railway Sector in China of supporting
increases in capacity as well as measures that help China Rail to progressively adopt
modern railway management and technologies. Before this project the Bank had
supported seven projects with the national railway and one with a provincial railway. The
first project went to the Board in 1984.

The most relevant sector issue at the time of the appraisal of this project was the question
of government reform. The Government of China (GOC) had committed itself to the
reform of all State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), of which China Railways is one of the
largest. In particular, the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2001-2005) stated that the purpose of the
government is: "To accelerate the reform of transportation management system and
operation mechanisms with the core focus on the separation of the government functions
and the enterprise functions" and that railways will "separate infrastructure from transport
operations."

In early 2000, MOR submitted a general plan for reform to the State Council and this was
still under discussion at appraisal. Although the details were never publicly available, the
challenges faced by MOR were (and still are) not unlike those that other governments
have had to address as they have sought to reform their railway systems: how to clarify
the respective functions of government and enterprise, focus on the market, create and
manage competition, and define and reshape private/public boundaries.

However, the sheer size of the railway sector in China, and its key role within the
economy, means that reforms have of necessity been undertaken incrementally rather
than as a single major package. Appraisal identified five factors which made reform at
the time particularly challenging:

First, in China rail is a critical component of both the freight and passenger transport
networks -56 percent of freight (measured in ton-km) and 37 percent of passengers
(measured in passenger-km) go by rail and reform must therefore be carried out carefully
to reduce the risk of disrupting service with knock-on effects on economic growth.
Second, Chinese railways face capacity shortages and demand surpluses, so the need for
expansion will remain important and regulatory issues will remain significant. Chinese
railways generate the highest traffic density in the world, and the need for continuing
expansion is well documented.




                                               1

 Third, Government looks to rail revenues to pay for a significant portion of capital
 outlays.
 Fourth, Railways face increasing competition and had lost approximately 1 percent of
 market share every year since 1978. Road traffic was increasing rapidly as the
 expressway network was expanded.
 Fifth, The technical and managerial standards at the time were dated and below Western
 levels, requiring the upgrade of technical and managerial capabilities, information
 technology and commercial techniques.

 Against this background, the project was designed to improve a key link to north-western
 China and Eurasia which was a major bottleneck as well as to address a number of
 management issues that, at the time of project preparation, were considered important to
 the task team in facilitating the on-going reform of China Railways.

 1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

 The objectives of the project were to assist China railways to: (a) improve transport
 access to the northwest region of the country in order to support its economic growth and
 poverty alleviation; and (b) restructure the management and operation of China Railways.

 The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) formed two groups: (a) eight technical indicators
 to measure the capacity and speed of the upgraded project section;

                                     Project KPIs (ex PAD)
                                                       1998       2000        2004      2008
Passenger trains (pairs/day)                              14        15          19        29
Freight volume (million ton-km)                     10298.37  10811.16    14467.3   19821.29
Passenger volume (million pass-km)                    5432.4   5658.75     6941.4     8752.2
Freight intensity (million net tonnes)                20.847    21.885     29.719   40.718(1)
Average freight train speed (km/hr)
Up                                                     23.51     23.51       49.63     49.63
Down                                                   24.73     24.73       46.52     46.52
Average passenger train speed (km/hr)
Up                                                      45.7      45.7       68.45     68.45
Down                                                 46.45(2)  46.45(2)      69.12     69.12
Operating expense (constant yuan/ton-km) (3)                                 0.196    0.0986
 (1) Misprint in PAD of 10.718
 (2) Misprint in PAD of 16.45
 (3) 2004 value seems unlikely ­see discussion in M&E

 and (b) four indicators associated with the restructuring of the railway sector:
 · Railway Reform Plan approved by State Council (12/31/2002)
 · Pilot independent PTEs established (06/30/2002)
 · Implementation program for creation of wagon ownership company announced
     (12/31/2003)
 · Commitment for developing feasibility of integrated planning and costing tool (sic)
     (09/30/2003)


                                                  2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The development objectives and key indicators remained unchanged throughout the
implementation of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The increase in rail freight transport capacity and reduction in transit time of freight trains
was expected to benefit the producers of agricultural, mineral, and manufactured goods in
northwestern China by improving access to markets in central and eastern China. The
population of northwestern China was expected to benefit from the increase in passenger
services and reduced travel time.

The initial beneficiaries of the institutional reform activities were MOR managers
involved in the reform and restructuring of the railways. Moreover, to the extent that the
activities focused regional managers' attention on the needs of railway passengers, these
customers would also benefit.

1.5 Original Components

The Project included two parts:

Part A: Expansion of railway capacity: the expansion of a key east-west railway
corridor between Baoji and Lanzhou (Bao-Lan line) by1:
        (1) upgrading and double-tracking of the existing railway line between the cities
        of Baoji and Lanzhou (Bao-Lan Line), together with upgrading and construction
        of auxiliary facilities, including access roads, railway stations, water and power
        supply, and waste disposal facilities serving the Bao-Lan Line;
        (2) provision of equipment to support and improve the survey and design of the
        Bao-Lan Line, its signaling and telecommunications systems, its electrification
        and power supply, environmental management and the line's subsequent
        operation and maintenance, including track maintenance;
        (3) provision of locomotives and rolling stock for the Bao-Line Line; and
        (4) carrying out a program of resettlement and rehabilitation for Affected Persons
        under the Project.

Part B: Assistance with the reform of China Railways: technical assistance to
undertake:
        (1) a study to develop a cost model for the Passenger Transport Enterprise (PTE)
        in Kunming Railway Administration,
        (2) a study on the establishment of pilot railway PTEs in large railway
        administrations with sub-administrations,
        (3) a study to establish a wagon-ownership enterprise, and

1Bank funds were used to partly finance the first and second of these elements




                                                     3

        (4) a study on the feasibility of developing an integrated planning and costing
        model to support the establishment of line-of-business operations.

Part A was designed to increase the capacity of the railway network between eastern and
western China resulting in an increase in passenger and freight traffic volumes and
reductions in the travel time of trains. Part B was to support the reform program of China
Railways through technical assistance studies that would assist improvement of freight
and passenger service quality.

1.6 Revised Components

The Bao-Lan Line component included track maintenance equipment expected to be used
not only on that line but more generally in CR's network. There was savings from the
estimated cost of about $24 million in the procurement of goods, due to competitive
prices and a reduction in the quantities of goods compared to the planned quantities to
match the actual requirements of the project. On February 14, 2005, the Bank approved
the request of the Government to reallocate the loan funds for the purchase of rail-based
rescue cranes. The description of the project in the Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part A:
Expansion of Railway Capacity, was amended on February 14, 2005 to include
"Provision of railway rescue equipment". This reallocation amended the unallocated
category to zero from US$8.56 million and increased the goods category by the same
amount to US$156.40 million.

The technical assistance component underwent substantial modification during the
implementation period, reflecting the dynamic pace of Chinese economic growth and
institutional change. Between loan appraisal and project implementation, MOR
underwent a continuous series of restructuring and reforms, rendering some of the
technical assistance topics irrelevant. The reforms implemented included: (i) separation
of non-core businesses, (ii) commercialization that made regional mangers accountable
for profitability and safety, (iii) management restructuring that took out one layer of
management and abolished sub-administrations, (iv) separation of passenger services on
an accounting basis, (v) setting up of joint ventures for the construction and operation of
higher-speed passenger corridors, and (vi) setting up of specialist companies for container
services, mail and parcels, and special freight.

As a result, from 2003 onwards, it became increasingly clear that the TA study topics
would need to be revised. The cost model study for passenger services (Part B (1) above)
was rendered redundant in 2003, as Kunming RA separated its passenger services in that
year and independently developed its own cost model. The study on Passenger
Transportation Enterprise in RAs with sub-administrations (Part B (2) above) also
became irrelevant as plans were developed for abolishing the sub-administrations in a
major organizational reform, finally implemented in 2005. Between 2000 and 2005, there
was also a 45% increase in freight traffic (compared to 4% between 1995 and 2000).
Even though an IT-based system significantly improved fleet utilization, this sharp
growth created a severe shortage of wagon capacity and railway management took over




                                               4

full control over the wagon fleet to maximize its utilization2. MOR itself now acts as a
wagon leasing organization3, owning all wagons with the RAs paying rental on the basis
of wagons they hold each day. This achieved many of the objectives of the proposed
Wagon Enterprise study (Part B (3) above) and MOR saw little to be gained by pursuing
the original study.

In order to support railway reform, MOR also continued to develop systems and
procedures outside this project to improve planning and management information
systems and enhance its commercial orientation. The need for the development of a free-
standing integrated planning and costing tool (Part B (4) above) was removed with the
Phase III development of the Railway Investment Study (RIS) planning model, carried
out in 2003-04 with the Bank's support4. RIS III has enhanced MOR's capability for
railway investment planning, including the ability to analyze MOR and government
policy in terms of its financial impact on MOR and the regional administrations.

The Bank's implementation team responded to the changing needs of MOR and agreed to
modify the contents of technical assistance studies to match the prevailing priorities of
the railways. A number of proposed replacement studies were also overtaken by events
and the TA finally concentrated on a single major study of options for upgrading its
information technology strategy. This was more far-reaching and significant than any of
the studies previously proposed (either initially or as replacements) and a contract was
finally awarded in 2006 to develop a strategy to handle MOR's current and future
operational and business information needs.

1.7 Other significant changes

Following the completion of the infrastructure component, the tendering of the rescue
equipment and the IT study, at the request of the Government the Bank cancelled $5.0
million from the loan effective March 17, 2006 and reallocated the revised $155.0 million
loan amount. At loan close, effective January 3, 2008, an additional $1.8 million was
canceled. The original, revised, and final actual costs are shown as follows.

                Category              At appraisal              Amended            Project Close
       Goods:                                147.8                  152.7                150.8
       Consultants' Services                     2.0                  0.7                    0.8
       and Training
       Fee                                       1.6                  1.6                    1.6
       Unallocated                               8.6                  0.0                    0.0
       Total                                 160.0                  155.0                153.2


2During time of war, and facing similar problems, both the US and UK governments introduced similar
measures.
3Under the current arrangements, the RAs are the railway operators and the owners of the locomotives and
carriages. This change to MOR ownership for the wagons thus provided strong financial incentives to the
RAs to improve their efficiency in wagon usage, achieving the same effect as was hoped for from the
creation of a wagon leasing company.
4The Railway Investment Study was initially carried out with strong IBRD support in the early 1990s and a
computer-based macro-level planning model was developed for MOR. This model was updated in 1999.


                                                     5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The timing of the project was well chosen and the project components were in line with
the CAS. The project addressed two important issues related to rail transport in China: (i)
expansion of capacity on an important east-west corridor; and (ii) supporting the reform
program of China Railways to improve the service quality of freight and passenger
services. Capacity constraints were causing shortages of coal at power stations and the
stockpiling of imports at certain ports. Improvement in service quality, particularly for
passenger services, had gained in importance with increased competition from highways
and air services, many of which were also operating at close to capacity.

Lessons learnt from previous projects had shown the project should not include
components to which the client is not fully committed, nor so many components that they
cannot be properly supervised during implementation. Accordingly, this project had
fewer components than its predecessors (Railways VI and VII) and, at the time of
appraisal, the client supported both the physical and reform components.

However, the project was too ambitious in including general railway reform and specific
related TA studies within a single investment loan. The policy dialogue during project
preparation had included the participation of senior MOR staff (whose involvement at
this stage was essential based on lessons from earlier projects) but MOR priorities had
changed substantially by the time the technical assistance studies were to be implemented.
The acceleration in traffic growth from 2000 on, after several years of stagnation, meant
the Government did not accept the reform plan for railways submitted by MOR in early
2000 and MOR was instead instructed to concentrate on efficiently handling the large
increase in freight while pursuing less ambitious reform activities5. MOR implemented
several major reforms to streamline and simplify management structures to improve
operational efficiency and, as a result, the specific topics addressed by the four TA
studies included in the loan agreement were overtaken by events and became irrelevant.

The physical project was within the capacity of MOR and it had completed the technical
design of the double-tracking component at appraisal. The Bank's appraisal team
reviewed in detail various aspects of the project feasibility report, including technical
parameters and engineering design, projected traffic volumes, estimates of costs and
benefits and safeguard issues in Beijing and during site visits. The appraisal team
received MOR's full support in project preparation and appraisal.



5In particular, experience in UK during this period had shown the separation of infrastructure from
operations, one of the key reforms being considered, had the potential to seriously disrupt operations, an
unacceptable risk as far as the government was concerned in view of the importance of the railway to the
national economy.




                                                     6

The Bank assessed the risks associated with the physical component as negligible, with
the exception of traffic risk, which was assessed as modest. The risk to the reform
component was assessed as modest. This is probably a realistic assessment of the long-
term risk; however, the timing of reform is another matter and the risk of the ambitious
reforms implicitly included in the project occurring within its timeframe should have
been more realistically assessed as substantial6. Finally, at appraisal safeguard policies
were not considered a risk as construction related to this project had already begun by
appraisal and the on-going safeguard supervision and monitoring were in accordance
with Bank policies. This followed the trend of steady improvement of China Railways in
the implementation of safeguard policies.

For the most part this project was well prepared. The background analysis was sound, the
project well designed, MOR was committed, and most risks reasonably assessed. The one
exception is the rigidity with which the reform support was framed; this reflects the
Bank's regional practice at the time of locking in specific technical assistance in the
Project Appraisal Document for the entire implementation period, a practice which has
now been changed to a more flexible and client-responsive approach in the case of
railways because of the fast-moving development in the sector.

2.2 Implementation

The Bank loan to support this project was approved in January 2002. Construction began
in advance of Board approval, with MOR funding most of the civil works and Bank funds
being spent on track and overhead catenary needed later in the construction sequence. As
a result, the Bank-financed parts proceeded very rapidly. The physical works were
commissioned in June 2003, 18 months ahead of schedule.

The main reasons for the accelerated implementation of the physical component of the
project were:

    (i) strong political commitment at a high level;

    (ii) timely availability of counterpart funding;

    (iii) meticulous project planning, including deployment of multiple groups for
         construction work;

    (iv) selection of contractors having access to modern machines and technologies,
         especially for tunneling and bridge construction; and

    (v) financial incentives to contractors for accelerated progress of works.

The Bank-financed equipment procured through international competitive bidding
invariably came in well below estimate. Some of these unused funds (US$24 million)



6Similar reforms in other State railways of a significant size have typically taken a decade or more ­ and
China Railways is of far greater importance to the economy (and will thus inevitably be more cautious in
reform) than any other except probably Russia and possibly India.


                                                      7

were used to procure additional equipment and US$5.0 million was cancelled from the
loan.

As discussed above, the four TA studies originally proposed were all overtaken by events
and replaced, at MOR's request, by a major IT strategy study. The TOR and consultant
selection process were carefully prepared by MOR with close consultation and advice
from IBRD. The final report was delivered in late-2007 and provides a strong foundation
for improving China railway's future operating and commercial performance.

The total cost of the project was 11 percent higher than the appraisal estimates (including
contingencies). The cost of Bank-financed equipment and services was lower than the
estimates but the cost of locally funded equipment and works was higher by about 13
percent.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E key performance indicators for the infrastructure component are simple
concise measures which directly monitored the achievement of the PDO. The exception
is the indicator for "operating expense per thousand ton-km"; this is in practice calculated
by MOR for entire railway administrations rather than a specific route or line and could
not be estimated as intended for the specific project line.

The other M&E key performance indicators for the physical component are routinely
collected by MOR and can be taken as accurate. As with all linear transport
infrastructure, performance indicators can only be collected once the project has been
physically completed and operated.

The M&E key performance indicators for the reform component were very ambitious and
well beyond the control of either the implementing agency or the IBRD. Furthermore
these indicators were strictly input based and did not appropriately measure the output of
supporting the reform program of China Railways, an activity in which the Bank was,
and has remained, actively involved.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment

Throughout project implementation, dedicated professional staff were assigned by the
PMO, contractors and engineers to monitor and supervise the implementation of the
environmental measures developed in the Environmental Action Plan (EAP). The EAP
was well implemented with the major environmental issues, i.e. soil erosion, waste
management, dust, water pollution, social disruption during construction and noise during
operation, being properly addressed and no unforeseen adverse environmental problems
arising. Monitoring during operation indicated noise impacts complied with relevant
national standards.




                                             8

As this is the eighth World Bank financed railway project in China, the Ministry of
Railways has accumulated fairly good awareness of, and in-house capacity for,
implementing Bank safeguards policies, contributing significantly to the smooth
implementation of this and subsequent Bank-financed railway projects. An innovation in
this project was the use of an independent Environmental Supervision Engineer7 who
conducted field supervision and provided MOR and the Bank supervision reports on a
quarterly basis. This provided effective enforcement of environmental protection during
construction, and valuable support to the general Supervision Engineer. This system has
now since been adopted by MOR for their own-funded projects.

Social Safeguards

The resettlement and land acquisition work associated with the project was monitored by
Northwest Jiaotong University, with annual review as part of Bank missions. In general,
the external monitoring reports were well prepared, with only minor matters that required
follow-up, and were a significant improvement on those prepared during earlier railway
projects. Resettlement was jointly managed by the relevant local governments and
railway administration and implemented in line with, and in some cases beyond, the
requirements of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The RAP was well publicized.
Persons affected were compensated either through redistribution of land, being provided
with an alternative site, or cash compensation. The resettlement was completed
successfully, with those affected people surveyed expressing satisfaction with their
compensation and other arrangements.

Fiduciary

No particular fiduciary issues rose during implementation. Financial management and
reporting was in accordance to the Loan Agreement and the project complied with Bank
guidelines. Actual disbursement was remarkably close to initial projections.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The service on the line continues to meet or exceed expectations and track and rolling
stock is being well maintained8. MOR has thus again demonstrated its capability to
maintain assets in good condition and upgrade services in the post project period,
providing a high level of confidence for the sustainability of this project.

The project is part of a major trunk line along one of the key national corridors. Based on
the experience of previous rail projects, no specific measures by the Bank are required to
ensure sustainability of this specific project beyond the normal operating and
maintenance practices of MOR. No follow-up phase to the upgrading component is


7This is not normal practice in China, as third party supervision on environmental management is not
required by regulation
8This conclusion is based upon field visits the last in November 2006, more than three years after the line
was put into operations. On the last visit the team traveled the entire route from Baoji to Lanzhou on an
express train that ran at a maximum speed of 140 km/h (full design speed and the project target).


                                                       9

necessary though traffic demand may eventually warrant further speed-raising or
separation of freight and passenger traffic (see Section 3.2).

As one would expect, the railway reform plan reflected in the PAD has evolved in
response to China's dynamic economy and rapidly maturing institutions. Sharp growth in
demand meant that MOR concentrated on actions to remove bottlenecks in rail transport
capacity that were causing shortages of essential commodities. Simultaneously, MOR
took several other important but different steps towards reform (see Section 1.6 above),
to enable the railway to become more responsive to the market economy and improve its
planning and operational efficiency. In 2004, NDRC, which now has responsibility for
overseeing railway reform, replaced the 2000 reform proposals with a new framework in
"State Development and Reform Commission: China's Key Reforms in Seven Fields in
2004".9 This document identified three principles for the reform process: (i) separation of
Government administration of the railways from enterprise management; (ii) introduction
of competition where suitable; and (iii) effective industry regulation. Two of these are
similar to the two principles on which the Bank policy was based at appraisal10.

The Bank itself has evolved from project based support for policy development to a
policy dialogue platform that directly targets decision makers within MOR and NDRC,
being instrumental in organizing a number of high-level discussions and seminars.11 This
is continuing in parallel with Bank investment in infrastructure projects (see Section 6).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design and implementation of the physical component of the project
remain relevant in today's context. This component directly responds to the current
Country Partnership Strategy 2006-10 (CPS) that consists of five pillars. This project
addresses the integration of China into world economy (Pillar 1) by developing rail
infrastructure connecting western China with ports located on east coast and, given its
location on the main transport link for northwestern China, the project also supported a
second pillar of CPS: to address poverty reduction. The third pillar of CPS that gives
priority to managing resource scarcity and environmental challenges is supported by the
promotion of rail transportation on an important east ­west corridor that makes much less


9Xinhua Net Beijing, April 14, 2004; report on "Opinion on Implementing the Guidelines of the Decision
of the Third Plenary Session of the 16th Party Central Committee in Pushing the 2004 Economic Reform".
10 The separation of government functions from enterprise functions, and separation of infrastructure from
operations. The latter principle, designed to foster on-track competition, would probably be more
cautiously supported by the Bank at the current time.
11 Major events included (i) a one-week workshop in August 2002 on freight pricing, rate regulation and
inter-company payments, for which three North American experts visited Beijing;
(ii) discussions with MOR and NDRC during May 2004 and November 2004 on preparation of a joint
strategy for railway reform;
(iii) a two-day international seminar on railway investment and pricing reform in September 2005;
(iv) preparation of a paper on the systems required for a multi-operator network in 2007; and
(v) parallel studies on National Rail Investment and the Social Cost of Rail Development.


                                                      10

demand on land use, is more energy efficient and causes less pollution than the
alternatives of road and air transport. The main beneficiaries are three of China's eight
poorest provinces, with average household expenditures in 2005 that were around two-
thirds of those for China as a whole. Their access to the markets of eastern China has
been significantly improved (see Table 2 of Annex 3).

The objective of the second component related to reform of railways also remains highly
relevant. It supports the fifth pillar of the CPS: Improving public and market institutions,
by improving firm competitiveness and reforming public sector units. However, whilst
the objective of the reform component remains valid today, the design and
implementation of today's railway projects reflect a `twin-track' approach. This
recognizes the importance of continuity in the Bank's support of policy initiatives and
capitalizes on the steady flow of railway projects. The policy track is provided outside of
the short term focus of individual project delivery whereby allowing continuity and
flexibility in meeting the policy needs of China Railways and the national government.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Based on the performance indicators for the physical works, the project has achieved its
primary objective to increase the capacity of the railway network between eastern and
western China. The project was implemented extremely efficiently, with the physical
works completed a year ahead of schedule thereby accelerating the realization of the
objective. This project is a key investment eliminating a major bottleneck on one of the
most important rail corridors in China. It approximately doubled total capacity to and
from northwestern China and as a direct result there has been a 22 per cent annual growth
in traffic on the line since the project was completed, compared to an annual average of
under 1 per cent for the previous eight years (Table 1 of Annex 3). The speed of both
passenger and freight trains has also increased significantly.

Most of the key performance indicators associated with this component which can be
measured12 have been met, with freight volumes in particular almost reaching the 2008
target in 2004. The remaining key performance indicators are linked to average train
speed. Two of these are lower by less than 10%, well within the margin of error for
estimating such indicators. The third, which measures freight train speed in the eastbound
direction, is low because the rapid growth in eastbound freight traffic generated through
the project has stretched the capacity of the yard at the eastern end of the route, causing
delays as they queue to enter; this is currently being addressed through expansion of the
yard capacity.

Over the past five years a steady stream of reform measures have left China railways in a
substantially changed form to what they were at the start of the project. These measures
achieved to a degree all four key performance indicators related to reform activities. In
regards to the first key reform performance indicator (Indicator 9), the State Council did
not approve the Railway Reform Plan of 2000 but NDRC did approve a later, and rather


12Excluding the operating cost KPI




                                               11

different, reform framework in 2004. On the second indictor (Indictor 10), pilot
independent PTEs were established about a year late but then consolidated and replaced
by accounting separation to improve operational efficiency. The creation of a wagon
ownership company (Indictor 11) was overtaken by wagon ownership being centralized
in MOR while the RIS III planning model (Indictor 12) was developed in 2003/4, but
funded by the Seventh Railway project. In addition, the technical assistance provided
through the project on the development of a long-term IT strategy (see Annex 2) has
made a major contribution to the long-term improvement of the railway's operational and
commercial management. In summary, the second objective of supporting the reform
program of China Railways has been achieved.

3.3 Efficiency

The estimated project economic return that was included in the PAD drew on generalized
assumptions about the value-added of the commodities that would be carried on the route
following completion of the project. It is not possible to directly identify such impacts in
practice, as neither the commodities nor the production locations were specifically
identified. The re-evaluation has therefore been done within a more conventional
transport project evaluation framework, by identifying the operational benefits arising
from the project: savings in operating cost and travel time and capacity-related user
benefits.

Based on the analysis in Annex 3, the reevaluation estimates that the economic rate of
return for the Baoji - Lanzhou project is 22 percent. Although this has been derived on a
completely different basis, it is very similar to the economic return of 23 percent reported
in the PAD.

No financial rate of return has been calculated, as MOR does not prepare financial data
for individual line sections.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory. The relevance of the project objectives, provision of transport (rail)
capacity and support to the railway reform process, are as relevant, if not more relevant,
than at the time of appraisal. The project objectives were directly in line with the key
elements of the 1997 CAS and are enshrined today in the 2006-2010 CPS. The primary
capacity objective has been substantially achieved well ahead of plan and the economic
rate of return for the project continues to look very good. The objective of supporting
reform has been achieved, though for the most part outside this project and in a manner
not envisioned at appraisal.




                                              12

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project itself has significantly improved the railway sector's ability to undertake
major projects in an efficient manner. In addition, the innovative use of the
Environmental Supervision Engineer (Section 2.4) has been a major development which
has been subsequently adopted on other environmentally-sensitive projects.

Given the size and importance of the rail sector in China, there is little scope for direct
links between individual studies associated with individual rail projects and major sector
reforms. However, the dual-track approach adopted since this project is generating a
steady stream of requests for policy advice from the Bank and there has been continuous
dialogue with senior policy-makers in both NDRC and MOR, with rail policy undergoing
a steady evolution towards a more market-based and decentralized structure.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible. There is little risk that the development outcome associated with the
physical component will not be maintained. The project was close to achieving the
physical KPIs projected for 2008 a year in advance and, as part of the main east-west
route in China, will be a priority link for the foreseeable future. There is also, in the view
of the project team, little risk that various reform measures will not eventually be applied
to the rail sector, although these may not exactly follow the Bank prescription at appraisal.
It is very likely that there will be a progressive separation of the management and
regulatory roles of MOR but the precise timing will be affected by many factors, such as
the ability of the current structure to attract private funding for the major infrastructure
program now under way and the extent to which traffic demand continues to stretch
available capacity. Each year brings additional elements of reform and it is clear MOR is
currently opting for an incremental approach rather than a `big bang'.




                                                13

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory. The project was highly relevant within the context of the CAS and
the preparation of the physical component was thorough and enabled smooth
implementation. Safeguard policies were carefully reviewed at appraisal and no
unforeseen issues arose. Monitoring and evaluation indicators for the physical component
were straightforward and readily measured. Project implementation was straightforward
and no major issues arose.

However, as discussed above, the topics proposed for technical assistance studies turned
out to have been largely overtaken by events by the time for implementation, which was
over two years after appraisal. While, in retrospect, it was difficult to anticipate the extent
and speed of the changes that occurred in MOR and Government thinking over the
project period, the objectives did not take into account the rapid pace of change of
China's institutions and economy. This was compounded by what appears in hindsight to
have been only lukewarm acceptance by MOR of the specific topics proposed for the TA,
which tended to reflect Bank interests rather than major MOR concerns. A shortcoming
of the Bank's project preparation was the setting of input based performance indicators
for the support to the reform of China Railways objective that measured actions, such as a
railway reform plan approved by the State Council, that were largely beyond the control
and influence of the component activities, namely the carrying out of studies.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory. Field supervision missions concentrated on the progress of physical
works and adherence to safeguards policies. No major issues arose that required unusual
attention or special remedial measures

It is common for Bank-funded technical assistance in the rail sector to move at a slower
pace than the physical works, especially when there are nominally nearly five years
during which they can be carried out. Thus it was in 2003 that it became clear that the
technical assistance study topics would need to be revised. The proposal to substitute the
redundant studies with an IT strategy study emerged in 2005 and the Bank helped
significantly to both draft the terms of reference and to develop a procurement process
which enabled an extremely strong consultant to emerge.

In parallel, a series of policy-oriented discussions and presentations were made to senior
policymakers to address key issues in the evolution of the sector which led to the
development of the more successful (to date) `dual-track' approach.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory. The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.



                                              14

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory. The Government was strongly committed to the physical
component, ensured capable implementation staff and provided adequate counterpart
funding in a timely manner. The Government is committed to reform of the rail sector,
although not to the time frame and precise manner envisaged by the Bank at appraisal,
and has undertaken several policy initiatives since the project began. It has also engaged
with the Bank on policy issues more frequently and in a more open manner compared to
the situation at appraisal.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly satisfactory. The physical component of the project was implemented to
budget ahead of time. Disbursement was consistently at or above the original schedule.
Project quality was excellent. Because of the high-level policy issues involved in the
reform component, the agency (FCTIC in MOR) could bring little influence to bear on
the implementation of the original reform component but made considerable efforts to
ensure the success of the replacement IT strategy study.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory assuming
overall Borrower performance should not be rated higher than the lowest of the two
component ratings.

6. Lessons Learned

The efficient implementation of the project again demonstrated the value of clear and
thorough project planning, and that well-designed incentives for the contractors such as
completion targets can generate substantial benefits in performance.

The use of an environmental supervision engineer was a success and is now being
considered for other major projects with potential environmental sensitivity, ensuring that
proper attention is paid to environmental safeguards while freeing the supervising
engineer to concentrate on technical issues.

The experience of establishing indicators for the second project development objective of
support to railway reform demonstrates the difficulty in tying specific actions which can
only be taken at very high government and political levels to what is just one of a
multitude of infrastructure projects being undertaken by MOR. As has been found in
other projects in China, it is misguided to imagine that short-term central government
decision-making can be significantly influenced by indicators embedded within a project
that primarily delivers infrastructure. This is especially so in such a sensitive area as
railway reform, which in most European railways has taken well over a decade (and in
some cases closer to twenty years) for railways which have a fraction of the national
importance and operational complexity of China Railways.



                                              15

Nevertheless, the Bank's presence continued to be valued for its advice and knowledge,
particularly concerning overseas experience and practice; this has been often
demonstrated in recent years, with the Bank being asked by MOR independently of a
specific project to be a central participant in several major policy studies. In such work,
timing is everything and this may or may not coincide with the constraints of specific
infrastructure delivery. With this said, it would be a mistake in hindsight to be overly
critical of the project preparation as performance indicators linked to specific reform
actions were common within the Bank at that time. Today the evidence is overwhelming
that policy leverage embedded within projects is not effective.13

The result of not meeting the prescribed reform indicators within this project placed an
undue strain on the relationship between the Bank and the Ministry of Railways which at
one time threatened the continuation of lending and the Bank's support to railway policy
development. After an assessment of the mutual benefits of a continued relationship, the
Bank reacted proactively, reflecting an understanding that changes in the country and
within the Bank, necessitated a new approach. Today the Bank has moved to support
railway reform in a different manner, by employing a "dual track approach", under which
one track delivered a multi-year multi-project lending program that supports the
additional network development needs. A second parallel track consisted of a continuous
high-level policy dialogue and related initiatives with a multitude of stakeholders
including NDRC and MOR. This approach has been much more effective in engaging
policy-makers on key issues.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

    (a) (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower supports the assessment to the extent to which the development objectives
were achieved and has not raised any issues.




13"Conditionality Revisited: Concepts, Experiences, and Lessons", publication (World Bank 2005).


                                                  16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in $ million equivalent)

          Components             Appraisal Estimate       Actual         Percentage of
                                     ($ million)        ($ million)        Appraisal
Double-tracking and upgrading
of Bao-Lan line and rescue cranes     1,087.9            1,332.3              122

Technical assistance to support
China railways reform                     2.0                0.7               35


            Total Baseline Cost       1,089.9             1,333.0             122

Physical Contingencies                   81.95                0.0               0

Price Contingencies                      23.03                0.0               0
              Total Project Costs     1,200.9             1,333.0             111
Project Preparation Fund                  0.0                 0.0               0
Front-end fee IBRD                        1.6                 1.6             100
    Total Financing Required*         1,202.5             1,333.0             111



(b) Financing *
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds           Estimate       Estimate     Percentage of

                                 ($ million)    ($ million)     Appraisal

Borrower                           1,042.48         1,178.0         113
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                   160.00         153.20            96
Development

* The total project cost as approved by the Government was $1,302.3 million. The
appraisal estimate of $1,202.5 million excluded interest during construction ($79.82
million) and the cost of locomotives ($19.94 million).




                                             17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

          Component/Output                              Planned (PAD 2001)                    Actual on
                                                                                              completion
Bao-Lan line:
Double-tracking and operation of the Upgrading of existing line: 134 km                         134 km
electrified railway line between                Building of second electrified line:
Baoji and Lanzhou                               467 km                                          467 km
Railway reform:
Studies to be financed by the project           4 studies                                       1 study
Workshops to be financed by the
project                                         no workshops                                  1 workshop

Double-tracking and upgrading of Bao-Lan line: The project financed the double-
tracking and upgrading of the Baoji - Lanzhou electrified single-track line (506 km
before the project). The upgrading of the existing line covered 134 km of the track and
included several re-alignments, shortening it by 24 km to 482 km. A second electrified
track (467 km long) was laid on a new alignment. The project increased the maximum
speed for passenger trains from 90 km/hr to 140 km/hr. The average transit time for
express passenger trains was planned to be reduced from 8 hours 51 minutes to 5 hours
14 minutes and that of freight trains reduced from 17 hours to 10 hours.

The Bao-Lan line passes through mountainous terrain, climbing from an elevation of
about 600m above mean sea level at Baoji to 2,050m at the highest point and descending
to 1,530m elevation at Lanzhou. The new track has 230 bridges and viaducts, with an
aggregate length of 54.6 km, compared with 98 bridges with a total length of 15.5 km on
the existing track. The new track includes 74 new or enlarged tunnels with an aggregate
length of 72.7 km. Twenty tunnels are more than one km long, the longest being about
four km. Thus, over a quarter of the new line is on bridges or in tunnels. This was a
challenging engineering project.

While the original TA studies were cancelled, the IT strategy report is already viewed by
MOR as providing a sound basis for the strategic development of IT systems for the next
5-10 years. It includes proposals for integrated architecture as well as initial
specifications, and prioritization, of eleven application systems14 covering various aspects
of transportation dispatching and operations. These recommendations are being reviewed
by an organization-wide steering committee and are expected to be implemented in three
phases over the next ten years. This will have an enduring impact on improving the
efficiency of railway operation and customer orientation of MOR.



14The specific topics include, computerization of train dispatching, planning and management of train
operations, freight business information reporting and improving data collection, real time tracing of trains,
locomotives, freight cars, containers and shipments, optimization of locomotive utilization, empty freight
car distribution, maintenance management of freight cars and locomotives, electronic waybill, and freight
transport e-business.


                                                    18

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

This Annex presents the economic re-evaluation of the component of the (First) National
Railway Project covering the doubling of the 506 km single-track section from Baoji to
Lanzhou.

The line is the main corridor (and one of only three routes in total) linking north western
China (Gansu, Qinghai, Tibet and Xinjiang) and Central Asia with the rest of the country
and, prior to double-tracking, had been operating at capacity for several years. Given the
dense traffic volumes and the strong growth projected for at least the medium term, the
primary benefit of double-tracking has been the additional capacity provided (shown by
the sharp increase in traffic following completion), as well as reduced operating costs and
passenger time savings from the better alignment and reduced transit times.

At project appraisal the economic evaluation focused entirely on the development
benefits arising from the additional capacity and did not consider either operating benefits
or benefits to existing users, both of which would be included in a conventional
evaluation. In addition, the approach adopted at appraisal was based on the value-added
from hypothetical investments in industrial capacity in western China as a whole over a
ten-year period from 2003. This type of evaluation is essentially unverifiable without
extensive fieldwork (and probably not even then) and it has been replaced for the
purposes of this ICR with an approach based on the observed user benefits and traffic
increase to date.

The ICR re-evaluation therefore concentrates on the operating cost savings from double-
tracking and the benefits to the additional traffic carried since project completion. In the
'without-project' case this traffic (most of which would be comparatively short-distance
traffic) is assumed to be either suppressed or to require additional road capacity (which
would typically be local improvements, such as widening, to existing roads) to be
constructed at the time of its diversion. The re-evaluation has also modified the treatment
at project appraisal of a number of complementary costs; the capital cost of the electricity
generating capacity, for example, does not need to be specifically identified, as its cost is
included in the price paid for electricity and the cost of catenary maintenance should be
included as an operating cost.

The re-evaluation concludes that, based on a discount rate of 12 percent, the net present
value (NPV) for the project is RMB 32 billion and the economic rate of return (EIRR) is
22 percent for the base re-evaluation ­ almost identical to the 22.7 percent figure reported
in the PAD. Alternative assumptions on the benefits to suppressed traffic vary the EIRR
within a range between 14 and 21 per cent.

Most of the additional traffic since project completion has originated in the western
provinces, including growing quantities of oil. The long-term regional and national



                                              19

development benefits generated by the capacity expansion are probably understated in the
evaluation, as no account has been taken of multiplier effects on the regional economy
arising from the increase in regional production. The evaluation also excludes benefits
related to reduced greenhouse gases caused by the transfer of road traffic to rail.

Traffic Forecasts

Prior to the project, traffic on the link was at capacity (Table 1) and volumes remained
constant for several years to 2003.

              Table 1: Traffic Growth on Baoji ­ Lanzhou Route 1996-2005
                             (all traffic figures in millions of traffic units)

                                              Task                    Volume
                                      Pass-km Net t-km Passengers              Tons
                          1995         5,344       11,746           10.9       23.9
                          1996         5,125       11,005           10.4       22.4
                          1997         5,114       10,265           10.4       20.9
                          1998         5,204       10,526           10.6       21.5
                          1999         4,902       10,826           10.0       22.1
                          2000         5,357       11,735           10.9       23.9
                          2001         6,057       11,892           12.3       24.2
                          2002         6,510       11,400           13.3       23.2
                          2003         6,279       11,926           12.8       24.3
                          2004         7,663       18,745           16.3       39.9
                          2005         8,376       17,581           17.8       37.4
                      Growth rate
                       1995-2003          2.0          0.2            2.0       0.2
                       2003-2005         15.5        21.4           17.9       24.1
                  Source : MOR

During this period rail freight traffic to and from the north-western provinces grew
steadily (Table 2). However, by 2002 growth had slowed significantly, as the two
alternative routes through Zhongwei15 also became congested.

The project has approximately doubled total capacity to and from north-western China
and, as the alternative routes are at capacity, the majority of future growth will be
channeled along this route for at least the medium term. Thus, even if overall growth to
and from the west is conservatively taken as 4% per year, the growth in freight traffic on
the Bao-Lan line will be at least 6% per year for at least the medium term. Table 3
compares the volumes in 2004 and the future growth rates assumed in this ICR with those
forecast at appraisal.




15These two routes, from Wuwei and Lanzhou, are both single track and non-electrified, with an aggregate
capacity of about 40 million tons per year, and are used mostly for freight.


                                                     20

        Table 2: Freight Traffic to and from North-western China 1998-2005
                             (all traffic figures in millions of tons)

                     From north-western China                       To north-western China
               Gansu    Qinghai Xinjiang          Total      Gansu     Qinghai Xinjiang   Total
   1998          12.4        2.8        10.9        26.1       12.4         3.1      5.6   21.1
   1999          13.5        3.1        13.3        29.9       12.1         3.0      5.5   20.6
   2000          14.4        3.6        14.3        32.3       13.2         3.2      6.4   22.8
   2001          15.3        3.8        15.0        34.1       13.9         3.9      7.0   25.8
   2002          16.4        4.0        16.6        37.0       13.6         4.4      7.1   25.1
   2003          16.9        4.4        17.1        38.4       13.8         5.3      7.7   26.8
   2004          21.0        6.5        21.1        48.6       16.5         5.4      8.8   30.7
   2005          21.4        8.8        22.7        52.9       14.7         6.9    10.0    31.9
Growth (%) pa
1995-2003         6.4        9.5          9.4        8.0         2.2      11.3       6.6    4.9
2003-2005        12.5       41.4        15.2        17.4         3.2      14.1     14.0     9.1

Source: China Transport and Communications Yearbook

  Table 3: Forecast and Actual Growth Rates ­ East-West Corridors (% per year)

                                                   Passengers         Freight
                   Traffic volume 2004               (million)     (million tons)
                   Appraisal                              14.3            29.7
                   Forecast                               16.3            39.9
                                                                             (%
                   Traffic growth assumed             (% p.a.)             p.a.)
                    Appraisal
                     2004-2015                              4.2             5.6
                     2015 on                                0.9             0.9
                    ICR
                     2004-2015                              6.0             6.0
                     2015 on                                3.0             2.0



Direct Project Costs

The total direct outlays of the project, excluding the front-end fee and TA, amounted to
RMB 10.73 billion (Table 4). These were converted into constant Yuan using the annual
GDP cost deflator to give the total economic direct costs of the project (RMB of 2005) as
12.18 billion. The PAD shadow-priced the assumed labor component of local costs to
allow for meals and other payments to in-house labor. However, as the work was done by
contract rather than by direct labor, such items are included in the contract cost and this
adjustment has not been made in the ICR re-evaluation.




                                                21

      Table 4: ICR Financial and Economic Direct Project Costs (RMB million)

                                             Local           Foreign            Total
 Financial (current)                            9,760            974             10,734
 Economic (2005 prices)                       11,078            1,099            12,177

The re-evaluation made two small adjustments to the project costs: to allow for new track
on the existing line, which is essentially of a replacement nature rather than upgrading the
infrastructure and hence would also be incurred in a 'without-project' case, although
maybe not at this precise time; and for the track maintenance machinery purchased,
which is included in rail operating costs. Table 5 summarizes the various functional
elements of the project and the share of each included in the re-evaluation.

      Table 5: Expenditure Included in Economic Evaluation ($ million current)

        Item            Actual cost   Cost included                 Comment
 Survey and design         32              32                        100%
 Civil works               38              37                        100%
 Land                      90              90                        100%
 Monitoring                 1               1                        100%
 Subgrade                 120              120                       100%
 Bridges                  198              198                       100%
 Tunnels                  258              258                       100%
 Buildings                 30              30                        100%
 Track                    136              129         95% - allowance for cascaded track
 Other                    280              280                       100%
 Subtotal                 1,183           1,176
 Equipment
 Communications            12              12                        100%
 Signaling                 19              19                        100%
 Power supply               7               7                        100%
 Electrification           25              25                        100%
 Track maintenance         43               0                Maintenance equipment
 Other                      9               9                        100%
 Subtotal                 114              71
 Total                    1,297           1,247                      96%

The re-evaluation thus includes 96% of the expenditure associated with the project, after
allowance for cascading and unevaluated benefits, compared to 100% at appraisal. For
simplicity, this proportion of 96% has been applied equally to all years, although in
practice it is more concentrated towards the later years of the construction period, when
the track maintenance equipment was purchased. Because of the long life of many of the
infrastructure works, a residual value of 20% of the capital expenditure has been included
at the end of the evaluation period.




                                              22

Complementary Costs

The PAD evaluation included a number of items as complementary investments, which
have been excluded from the re-evaluation. The incremental rolling stock capital in this
type of project is most realistically measured as annualized costs included in operating
costs, and this approach has been adopted in this case. No complementary costs for the
incremental electrical generating capacity needed by the change from diesel power to
electric traction have been included, as this is already included in the cost of electricity.
The additional annual operating cost of catenary maintenance is not a complementary
investment, but is part of the differential operating costs.

Finally, the PAD included the cost of upgrading and double-tracking the adjacent section
between Lanzhou and Wuwei, as this section also was congested at the time of the
appraisal. However, there are several other sections between north-western China and
central China which are also constrained (most notably between Zhengzhou and Xi'an),
and it was arbitrary to select just this one section for capital investment. No specific
benefits were included in the evaluation from investment on this section. As the
methodology adopted for the re-evaluation estimates benefits by line section which are
additive, there is no basis for including the investment for the Lanzhou-Wuwei section,
and it has been omitted.

Project Benefits

Project benefits fall into two categories. First, all traffic hauled on the line benefits from
the improved operating conditions, which reduce operating costs per unit of traffic. These
arise from:

    1. Reduced transit times because of the increased capacity, reducing rail operating
        costs and providing benefits to passengers.
    2. Reduced distance due to the improved alignment.
    3. Reduced energy costs and rolling stock maintenance costs per unit of traffic
        because of the much better alignment of the new line, the improvements to the
        existing line and the fewer en-route stops required for crossing purposes.
    4. An increase in the ruling load for freight trains in both directions because of the
        improved grades.
    5. Against this, there is the cost of maintaining the infrastructure for the second line,
        which for a considerable part of its length is also on a separate alignment.

The second category of benefits are those accruing to previously suppressed or diverted
traffic which is now able to use the additional capacity. Very little of this would be
diverted to other routes in the 'without-project' case, as these are also operating close to
capacity. Most such traffic would thus not be able to travel by rail and would either be
forced onto other forms of transport or would not be able to travel at all. For this traffic,
the benefits of the project are the reduction in operating cost, and in user disbenefit, of
now being able to travel by rail on this route compared to the alternative, which is
assumed to be by road. The change in user benefits should take into account not only the



                                               23

tariffs by the alternative route, but also characteristics such as speed, frequency and
access/egress time. Where the road network is approaching congestion, any traffic which
does travel by road is likely to impose costs on other road users; these have been
approximated by assuming additional road capacity is created in the 'without-project' case,
by local road works, to preserve the level of service.

Some traffic will decide that the alternative arrangements are too hard and not travel at all
in the 'without-project' case. Their benefits in the 'with-project' case are estimated using
the 'rule-of-a-half'16.

The incidence of these various costs and benefits depends on the way in which the
available capacity would have been allocated in the absence of the project. Based on
discussions with local officials, the re-evaluation assumes that in the 'without-project'
case none of the incremental 'with-project' traffic uses the alternative rail routes, but that
20% (primarily local short-distance traffic of up to 600 km) uses road with the remaining
80% suppressed.

Benefits to Existing Traffic in Project Corridor

The operational benefits to the existing traffic are largely associated with time savings
because of the increased commercial speed17 possible on the section and the reduction in
distance following the re-alignment. These reduce the costs of on-train crew, part of
locomotive maintenance and rolling stock capital. The re-evaluation has derived these
costs from first principles, using realistic engineering-based unit costs and an estimated
breakdown of MOR operating costs. Table 6 summarizes the estimated operating cost
benefits in 2005.

The reduced travel times also creates time savings for passengers and these have been
valued using a value of time of RMB 5 per hour, based on recent surveys of passenger
income undertaken on an adjacent line.

                       Table 6: Estimated Operating Cost Benefits, 2005

                                                          Unit             Passenger         Freight
        Annual saving per passenger/ton            RMB                         3.27             7.99
        Existing passengers/tons per year          million                     12.8             23.9
        Annual saving (2005)                       RMB million                    42            191

The estimated operating cost benefits in 2005 are RMB 233 million per year. In addition,
there is RMB 284 million per year of time savings to existing passengers.




16This is a standard technique in project evaluation. In this case, it also requires an assumption on the price
elasticity of demand, which has been taken as -0.5.
17This speed includes allowance for on-route stops for operational purposes and thus takes into account
delays caused by congestion in the 'without-project' case.


                                                      24

Penalties incurred by diverted traffic

Passenger traffic otherwise using road were given a benefit of RMB 71 per passenger,
based on an average benefit of RMB 0.15 per passenger-km. Freight traffic was given a
benefit of RMB 220 per net ton in 2005, based on an assumed truck operating cost of
RMB 0.40 per net ton-km. The truck operating cost is assumed to reduce at 3% per year
to 2019 to reflect continuing improvements in roads and vehicles. The incremental cost of
road construction to handle traffic using road is estimated at RMB 0.20 per pcu-km.

Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis

For the economic re-evaluation, net benefits are calculated for the 29-year period
covering the four-year construction period (2000-2003) and benefits for the 25 years from
2004 to 2028. The net present value (at a discount rate of 12%) is estimated at RMB 32
billion and the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) at 22 per cent. Table 7
summarizes the contributions to the NPV.

              Table 7: Structure of Base Case NPV (RMB million, 2005)


                   Operating                         Diverted/

                    Savings      Time Savings       suppressed     Total       % of Total
                                                      Traffic
 Passenger            252            3,858             3,690        7,801        24%
 Freight             1,153            NA              23,386       24,539        76%
 Total               1,405           3,858            27,076       32,339       100%
 % of total            4%             12%              84%         100%

Adjustments were made in four of the base case assumptions to test the sensitivity of
these results (Table 8).

               Table 8: Sensitivity Analysis - Estimated EIRR and NPV

                                                              EIRR        NPV
                                                               %       (RMB bill)
        Base Case                                             22           32
        Sensitivity tests
         Reduce operating cost savings by 50%                 21           31
         Growth halved                                        19           26
         Time savings excluded                                20           28
         Benefits to diverted/suppressed traffic halved       14           20

Although estimated using a completely different approach, these results are all similar to
those estimated at appraisal. The project is a key investment eliminating a major
bottleneck on one of the most important rail corridors in China. The EIRR is
comparatively high for such a large infrastructure investment, but this is because demand
has been constrained for several years. The optimum timing would probably have been
some three or four years earlier.


                                                25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
       Names                 Title                Unit      Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
 Hennie Deboeck     Sr. Transport Specialist     EASTE  Task Team Leader (1999-2000)
 Richard Scurfield  Lead Transport Specialist EASTE     Task Team Leader (2000-2002)
 Graham Smith       Railway Specialist           EASTE
 Wit Siemienieuk    Environment Consultant
 Jitendra Sondhi    Railway Engineer             EASTE  Engineering / Operations
 Alan Bell          Environment Consultant
 Daniel Gilbson     Resettlement Specialist
 H.C. Nguyen        Lawyer
 Shao Yuping        Operation Assistant
Supervision/ICR
 Graham Smith       Lead Transport Specialist EASTE     Task Team Leader (2002-04)
 John Scales        Sr. Transport Specialist     EASTE  Task Team Leader (2004-08)
 Paul Amos          Transport Advisor           ETWTR
 Richard Bullock    Consultant                   EASTE  Economist / Finance Analyst
 Jitendra Sondhi    Consultant                   EASTE  Engineering / Operations
 Liu Zhefu          Senior Social Specialist     EASCS  Resettlement (2002-04)
 Yao Songling       Social Specialist            EASCS  Resettlement (2004-08)
 Anil Somani        Environment Specialist       EASTE  Environment (2002-04)
 Wang Peishen       Environment Specialist       EASCS  Environment (2004-08)

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
  Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks       $ thousand (including travel
                                                                and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                               unknown                             55.7
  FY00                                 54                               241.9
  FY01                                 58                               178.0
  FY02                                 33                                74.7
                    Total:            145                               550.3
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                  8                                58.2
  FY03                                 10                                83.5
  FY04                                  6                                32.3
  FY05                                  7                                32.0
  FY06                                  4                                44.6
  FY07                                  5                                44.2
  FY08                                  3                                31.1
                    Total:             43                               325.9




                                             26

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The project of double-track and upgrading of Baoji-Lanzhou railway line began in 2001
and was completed in 2003. The engineering quality meets the requirements of design.
There were no major accidents during the period of construction of the line and the line
has been operating safely. It was one of the best engineering projects carried out by MOR
in 2003.

The main objective of the project was to increase the capacity of the railway network
between Baoji-Lanzhou for the railway corridor from eastern to western China. After
completion of the project, the capacity has increased to meet the demand for both
passenger and freight railway transportation.

Referring to resettlement and environment protection, Ministry of Railways completed
the works strictly according to relevant National and local laws and regulations and
ensured that these are implemented smoothly. At same time, MOR provided all
monitoring reports based on the Bank's requirement.

During the period of implementation of the project, The World Bank sent several
missions to the construction site, which also ensured in efficient implementation of the
project. Therefore, we appreciate the Bank's efforts on this project.

The ICR gives deals with all aspects of the project. We fully agree with the conclusion
made by The Bank.

Finally, we again appreciate the great support from The World Bank and wish to continue
cooperation with The Bank in the future.




                                            27

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Environmental Action Plan. The Center of Environmental Assessment and
     Engineering of the Scientific Research Institute. Railway Department of the
     Ministry of Railways Beijing. AMEC Earth & Environment of the Ministry of
     Railways Beijing. Mar. 2001
  2. Environmental Impact Assessment. The Center of Environmental Assessment and
     Engineering of the Scientific Research Institute. Railway Department of the
     Ministry of Railways Beijing. AMEC Earth & Environment of the Ministry of
     Railways Beijing. Mar. 2001
  3. Environmental Assessment Summary. The Center of Environmental Assessment
     and Engineering of the Scientific Research Institute. Railway Department of the
     Ministry of Railways Beijing. AMEC Earth & Environment of the Ministry of
     Railways Beijing. Mar. 2001
  4. Resettlement Action Plan, December, 2001
  5. The Feasibility Study the First Survey and Design Institute of Ministry of
     Railways August 2000
  6. IT Development Strategy for China Railways (several reports), 2006-07,
     Accenture




                                         28

                                        CHINA
            RAILWAY NETWORK                                                                                                                                                                      HARBIN
                                                                                                         M O N G O L I A
                                                                                CHINA

                               BAO-LAN RAILWAY LINE

                               NATIONAL RAILWAY SYSTEM:

                                EXISTING DOUBLE TRACK                                                                                                                          CHANGCHUN                       Jilin
                                EXISTING SINGLE TRACK                                                                                                                                               J I L I N
                                UNDER CONSTRUCTION SINGLE TRACK

                                                                                                                  N E I M O N G O L
                                MAJOR RIVERS

                                SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                  LIAONING
                                PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                       SHENYANG                    Fushun
                                NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                          Anshan
                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                DEM.
                                                                                                 HOHHOT
                                                                                                 HOHHO                                                                                                     PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                             REP. OF
                                                                                       Huang                 Datong      BEIJING
                                                                                                                               BEIJING            Tangshan                                                    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                     Dalian
                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN        Bo Hai
                                                                                                                         H E B E I          TIANJIN


                                                                              YINCHUAN                                      SHIJIAZHUANG
                                                                                                        TAIYUAN

                                                                      NINGXIA                                                                JINAN
                                                    XINING                                              S H A N X I                     S H A N D O N G                                        Yellow
                                                                 LANZHOU
                                                                  ANZHOU                                                         Huang
                                              Huang                                                                                                                                                Sea
                    Q I N G H A I

                                                      G A N S U                   Baoji                    Luoyang        ZHENGZHOU
                                                                                                                              GZHOU                 Xuzhou        JIANGSU
                                                                                              XI'AN        H E N A N
                                                                                   S H A A N X I
                                                                                                                                                 NANJING
                                                                                                                                           HEFEI                                       Wuxi
                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                         A N H U I                                                  SHANGHAI

              GNAZIX                                                                                     H U B E I

                                              S I C H U A N                                   ChangJiang                         WUHAN                          HANGZHOUGZHOU

                        Jinsha                        CHENGDU                                                                                                            Z H E J I A N G

           Nu                                                                        CHONGQING
                                                                                 CHONGQING
                                                                                                                              NANCHANG

                                                                                                        H U N A N          CHANGSHA                                                                           East
                                                                                                                  Zhouzhou                                                                                  China
                       Lancang                                                G U I Z H O U                                       J I A N G X I                                                               Sea
                                                                    Liupanshui   GUIYANG                                                                F U J I A N                       FUZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                          FUZHOU

                                                          Xuanwei
                                        Jinsha


                                                        Zhanyi
                                               KUNMING        Qujing
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAIWAN
                     Nu
                                    Y U N N A N                                            G U A N G X I               G U A N G D O N G

                                                                                                                              GUANGZHOU
                                                                                                                                      GZHOU
                                                                                                                    Xun
                                 Lancang                                                                                               Shenzhen

                                                                                              NANNING                         Kowloon   HONG KONG
                                                                                                                               MACAO


                                                                 VIETNAM
           MYANMAR                                                                                                                              0         100         200       300 Kilometers


                                              LAO PEOPLE'S                                                    HAIKOU
                                                                                                                  OU                            0                100                200                  300 Miles

                                                  DEM. REP.                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
AUGUST                                                                                               HAINAN                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank          IBRD
                                                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
             THAILAND                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                              35662
      2007                                                                                108°                         112°                             116°                                                   120°

                                                                                                                                            C H I N A                                                                        R U S S I A N   F E D E R AT I O N



                                                                                                           BAOJI TO LANZHOU RAIL LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEILONGJIANG
                         Lanzhou
              Lanzhou                Sangyuanzi
                                           Luotuoxiang                                                             BAOLAN PROPOSED LINE                              RIVERS                                                       M O N G O L I A

                                                                                                                   BAOLAN EXISTING LINE                              BUILT-UP AREAS                                                                                                                           J I L I N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                   STATIONS                                          CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                           LIAONING         DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S e a
                Lanzhoudong                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                                              PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E                                                                 o f
                                                      Xiaguanying                                                  ROADS                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                       N                        BEIJING                       REP. OF     J a p a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BEIJING                                KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TIANJIN Hai
                                                       Xujiatai                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               X     HEBEI                                   REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N                                              KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H              SHANDONG          Ye l l o w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Q I N G H A I                  NINGXIA               S
                                                                                                                                                               NINGXIA HUIZU                                                                                                                                   S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHAANXI          H E N A N             JIANGSU

                                                                                                                                                               AUTONOMOUS                                                                Area of map
                                                           GangcaodianLiangjiaping
                                                                           Chankou                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANHUI           SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H U B E I
                                              Wangjiawan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C h i n a
                                                           Lijiaping                                                                                                REGION                                                             S I C H U A N                                                  ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S e a
                                                                                  Dingxi                                                                                                                                                                                H U N A N      JIA NGXI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GUIZHOU                                        FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                YUNNAN                                                                        TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pingliang
                                                                                     Jingjiadian                                                                                                                                                             G U A N G X I       GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                          Jingning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HONG KONG
                                                 Neiguanying
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANMAR                    VIETNAM Sishilipu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAO PEOPLE'S                                           S o u t h
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEM. REP.
                                                                                  Tangjiapu                                                                                                                    THAILAND                                                HAINAN         C h i n a S e a                PHILIPPINES


                                Lintao


                                                                                        Tonganyi               Maying                                                                                                                      0            10             20            30            40        50

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS

                                                                                           Yuantianxiang

                                                             G A N S U                         P R O V I N C E

                                                                                                                                                                             Longshan

                                                                         Longxi          Longxi




                                                                                              Yuanyangzhen
                                                                                                                                Gangu
                                                                                                  Hejiadian         Pananzhen
                                                                                                     WushanLuomen
                                                                                                              Luomen              Gangu Xinyangzhen
                                                                                                                                              Weinanzhen
                                                                                                      Wushan                                      Sanyangchuan                                                                               SHAANXI                                       PROVINCE
                                                                                                                                                      Xiananhechuan
                                                                                                                                                           Yangjiahe



                                                                                                                                                     Tianshui       ShetangBoyang uanlongJianheFenggeling
                                                                                                                                                                                 Y                  Toushi

                                                                                                                                                                      Yuan Long                           Shijiatan
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Majiawan

DECEMBER                                  Min Xian                                                                                                                                                                                                          PingtouGuchuan   Fangtangpu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dongkou                                              FulinpuBaoji                                         IBRD
                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                  Yangjiachuan                           Yanjiahe                Zhaoyu
                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                                                                         Baoji
                                                                 on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                                                                                            31717
        2001                                                     judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                 acceptance of such boundaries.

