FILE   (~Q~Y~          RESTRICTED
FILE  COPI                       Report No. DB-58a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
OF
PAKISTAN
January 26, 1970
Development Finance Companies



CURREICY E4MAIBPTS
US;$ 1.00         -      Rs .762
Rupee 1.00        -      U$ 0.21
RS 1.0 million           US$ 210,000
Rs 10 billion            U S$ 210 xLllici



7JTDJ5¶VTh.J L D7LT2LC,PTh!T, ThD^ 9IC ''- ?A.St''A 'T
TABLE OF C ONTEN TS
Page       Paragzraph
STJMPRy                                         i-ii           i- x
I-  INTRODUCTIGN                                    1              1
II.  IDBP?S ENVIRNTIMI'1T AND ROLE                   1- 3           2- 11
Economic Environment                          1- 3           3-  8
Financial Institutions and IDBP's Role        3              9- 11
III.  THE COMPANY                                     4-13          12- 44
Background of Establishment                   4             12- 1.4
T.he Ordinance                                4             15
Functions                                     5             16
Share Capital                                 5             17
Control by Govrernment                        5- 6          18- 19
The Board                                     6             20- 21
Managenent                                    6- 7          22
Staff                                         7             23
Organization                                  7- 8          24- 25
Tecb.ical Advisory Committees                8             26
Delegation of Authority                       8             27
Procedures                                    9-10          28- 31
Maragement Information and
Accounting System                          10-11          32- 33
Resources                                    11-13          34- 44
III.  OPERATIONS AND POLICIES                       14-21          45- 75
Operational Policies                         14-15          45- 46
Interest and Charges                         15-16          47- 51
Trend of Operations                          16             52- 53
Size of Loans                                17             54
Duration of Loans                            17             55
Purpose of Loans                             17             56
Industrial Distribution                      17-18          57- 61
East Pakistan Operations                     19             62- 64
Small Loans                                  19-20          65- 68
Administered Loans                           20-21          69- 71
Securities Investment                        21             72- 74
Rupee Guarantees                             21             75
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a
mission comprising Messrs. A. Nuramatsu, B. Pottker
and L. Svoboda (Consultant), which visited DBP in
September 1969.



-2
Pags      Paragraph
V.  FINANCIAL RECQCRD                               22-26        76- 95
Financial Position                            22           76- 79
Quality of Loan Portfolio                     23-24        80- 86
Capital Structure                             24-25        87- 90
Earnings Record                               25           91- 93
Dividends and Share Price                     26)          94
Audit                                         26           95
VI.  PROSPECTS                                       26-29         96-105
Forecast of Business                          26-27        96- 98
Rupee Resources                               27           99
Foreign Exchange Resources                    27          100
Financial Prospects                           28-29       101-105
VII.  CQICLUSIONTS AND RECOM UATICHS                  29-32        106-115
Conclusions                                   29-30       106-111
Recommendations                               30-31       112 -113



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Industrial Fir.ancial Institutions in Pakistan
2.   List of Shareholders as of June 30, 1969
3.   Board of Directors and Executive Committee as of June 30, 1969
4.   Organization Chart as of December 31, 1969
5.   New Accounting System
6.   Rupee Resources as of June 30, 1969
7.   Foreign Exchange Resources and Utilization as of June 30, 1969
8.   Foreign Exchange Resources by Financial Year Received
9.   Schedule of Current Interest Rates and Charges
10.   Surai1ary of Operations:  1961/62 - 1968/69
11.  Analysis of Loans by Size, Duration, Type and Geographical
Distribution, Cumulative up to June 30, 1969
12.   Industrial Distribution of Loans Sanctioned up to June 30, 1969
13.   List of Administered Loans as of June 30, 1969
14.   Balance Sheets:  1964/65 - 1968/69
15.   Statements of Earnings:  1964/65 - 1968/69
16.   Quality of IDBP's Loan Portfolio
17.   Projections of Loan Operations: 1969/70 - 1973/74
18.   Projected Cash Flow Statements:  1969/70 - 1973/74
19.   Projected Balance Sheets:  1969/70 - 1973/74
20.   Projected Income Statements:  1969/70 - 1973/74



SUMMARY
i.        The Industrial Developuent Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) was established
in August 1961 through a reorganization of the Pakistan Industrial Finance
Corporation (PIFCO). It is one of a series of institutions, private, mixed
and governmental, designed to provide finance for private sector activity.
IDBP's peculiar role in the group is the promotion of medium and small-scale
enterprises.
ii.       IDBP's main activity is lending.  Up to the end of June 1969, IDBP
had approved 3,720 loans (including guarantees on foreign supplierst credits)
totalling Rs 2,137 million. Foreign exchange loans represented 80% of this
total. Other activities such as equity investment are only incidental. Total
resources available as of June 30, 1969 amounted to Rs 1,362 million, including
foreign exchange resources of Rs 866 million.
iii.      In accordance with IDBP Ordinance, the Government holds 51% of IDBPKo
share capital, now amounting to Rs 50 million. Altholgh the Government does
not appear to exercise undue influence on day-to-day activities, the Ordinance
does give it extensive control over the operations of IDBP, including the
appointment of a majority of the Board and the Management, and the Ordinance
provides for detailed regulation of IDBPts activities.  The Government has
agreed to make a comprehensive review of the Ordinance, with a view to
simplifying and streamlining it.
iv.       The Board consists of representatives of the Central and Provincial
Governments and of private businessmen. The present Management has made
special efforts to consolidate IDBP's organization and to improve its procedures
and the quality of its very large staff. In the six years since the Bank's
first contacts with IDBP, there has been considerable improvement, in appraisal
and follow-up and in the system of accounts and internal controls. Much
nevertheless remains to be done and IDBP has undertaken to formulate, or to
engage consultants to formulate, a program for further improvement.
v.        The average size of IDBP's loans is Rs 0.6 million.  IDBP's loans
under Rs 0.5 million represent 81% of the total number of its commitments
(17% in amount). They absorb a large amount of professional manpower and
bear heavily on administrative overhead. A part of the small business finance
is done in cooperation with the West and East Pakistan Small Industries
Corporation (WPSIC/EPSIC), with IDBP acting as the financing institution and
WPSIC/EPSIC as appraising and supervising institutions. Profit and risk are
shared between them. This program is not working effectively, since the
function assigned to IDBP is essentially that of a commercial bank. During
negotiations the Government agreed to formulate measures to streamline the
machinery for financing small business.



ii
vi.       IDBP is also active in providing finance to East Pakistan, parti-
cularly to the jute industry. IDBP cooperates with the East Pakistan Industrial
Development Corporation (EPIDC) in a program to set up new small-scale jute
mills with the latter's guarantee. Also important in IDBP's portfolio is the
cotton industry.
vii.      The financial structure of IDBP has been strengthened considerably
in recent years. Recent share capital increases, the build-up of reserves
and particularly the recent decision by the Government to subordinate its
advances to share capital, have improved the debt/equity ratio, which now
stands at 4.3:1. IDBP's earnings record appears to be stable and satisfactory.
viii.     IDBP's portfolio includes a considerable amount of defaulted accounts.
However, consideration should be given to the present difficulties being
experienced by medium and small businessmen in Pakistan and particularly in
East Pakistan where IDBP has been particularly active. IDBP has been
endeavoring to improve the situation, with some success; and it has given
assurances that it wi11 increase its efforts to reduce the level of arrears.
ix.       IDBP expects to approve Rs 1,404 million in the current and sub-
sequent four years, a 34% increase over the past five years. This appears
to be possible given the prospects of investment opportunities in agro-based
and export-oriented industries and assuming the availability of foreign
exchange resources.  On this basis, IDBP will need new foreign exchange
resources totalling $63.5 million by June 30, 1971. Assuming $30-35 million
from bilateral sources and $10-15 million from ADB, an IDA credit of $20
million onlent by the Government to IDBP would be appropriate to fill the gap.
X.        The terms of the loan should be those normally applied to the Bank's
lending to development finance companies, including a flexible amortization
schedule and normal commitment charge. The debt/equity ratio should be
limited to 5:1. The free limit should be $200,000 with the aggregate limit
of $6 million.



APPRAISAL OF TME INDUSTRIAL DEVELO0EMT BANK OFl PAKISTAN
I. INTRCDUCTICN
1.        In April 1969, the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (DBP)
applied for a Bank loan of $20 million. Although no loans have previously
been given to it, the Bank has long been in close contact with IDBP. The
company was appraised in 1964 and there were discussions between the Bank
and the Government with a view to a Bank loan. This did not materialize
partly because of the Bank's policy at that time not to lend to a Government
bank and partly also because of the condition of IDBP. The Bank did,
however, provide a fairly detailed analysis of IDBP's weaknesses and problems
and made some precise recommendations for improving accounts and operations.
Following the change in the Bankts policy, IDBP renewed its request and
a mission visited Pakistan in July 1969. This report is based on the
findings of the mission.
II.  IDBP'S ENVIRCNM$MT AND ROLE
2.        A recent review of the economy of Pakistan is found in the report
entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Pakistan,," SA-4a,
April 18, 1969. An Industrial Policy Mission was in Pakistan in September
1969 and is now preparing its report. Reference is invited to these reports
for detailed discussions on the current condition of the economy and industry.
Economic Environment
3.        The economic performance of Pakistan during the Third Plan Period,
which will end June 1970, has been seriously disturbed by hcstilities with
India, bad crops in the initial years and, later, widespread political and
social unrest. Mloreover, a shortfall in foreign assistance has aggravated
the balance of payments position already squeezed by military and food
imports. Against a projected annual net flow of transfers from abroad
(including private investments) of US$760 million per year, the actual
transfer is expected to amount to only US$ 530 million. The Government,
nevertheless, has strenuously combated these difficulties. The average
annual growth of GNP during the Third Plan Period is expected to come close
to 6%/o, which is below the projected 6.5 % but still is an accomplishment
in the circumstances.
4.        One of the measures taken by the Government to cope with the
situation is export promotion. The effective exchange rate for exports
has been raised through the export bonus scheme. Under this scheme exporters
receive bonus vouchers for 30-40 % of their export earnings which give
entitlement to import certain goods and can be sold at a price currently
about 1850o above par; this means an effective exchange rate of 56-74h9o
above the official rate. This scheme has had a favorable impact on export
industries, notably jute and cotton.



- 2 -
5.        However, the Government's measures are generally causing restraints
on industrial investment and activity. Foreign exchange available for
current inputs is rationed so that only about 609'o of the installed capacity
can be operated. The cost of imported inputs has been raised by shifting
more and more products from the free list to the cash-cum.'bonus or bonus
lists. which means an excbange rate of nearly double or triple the official
rate. Although capital goods may be imported on credit which is to be
repaid at the official rate, the investor/borrower has to take the exchange
risk w]hich would be large in the circumstances; also, in the case of
suppliers1 credit he has to pay the damn payment in bonus vouchers.
6.        The present exchange system is thus based on maltiple exchange
rates which not only float in accordance with the market price of bonus
vouchers but whose application to different products frequently changes.
Although this system has certainly helped to promote exports, it makes it
difficult to insure an orderly process of resource allocation in the
economy as a wmhole, and for individual entrepreneurs to make far-sighted
investment decisions. Investments tend to concentrate on such industries
as jute and cotton mills which assure a quick return under the existing
incentives .
7.        There are two noteworthy points in connection Ifith the present
foreign exchange regime.  First, medium and small-scale businesses are
nore severely hit by adverse conditions.  Their financial structure is
generally less able to resist the effect of low capacity utilization
resulting from the limited foreign exchange allocation for imported inputs.
Furthermore, the cash-cum-bollus system increases the cost of current inputs
and consequently of working capital requirements, which are often difficult
to finance, This is the more difficult because the value of imported raw
materials as collateral for borrowings is uncertain given the instability
of Government policy. Secondly, the engineering industry has come into a
cost-price squeeze between, on the one hand, expensive imported currerrt
inputs and, on the other, competitive imports of finished goods which are
relatively cheap under the prevailing official exchange rate. The Govern-
ment has recently raised import duties on capital goods from 350/o to  0To0
n West Pakistan and from 2509o to 300o  in East Pakistan, which, however,
would not be enough to offset the relative disadvantages.
8.        Private investments in industry are regulated through the Tndustrial
Investment Schedule. Due to the foreign exchange shortage, the original
provision of Rs 10.9 billion, as compared with actual industrial investments
of Rs 5.9 billion during the Second Plan Period, was reduced to Rs 9.7 billion.
The actual result is expected to be beiow this target, only Rs 5.2 billion
having been sanctioned up to June 1969, and about 200/0 shortfall is expected
for the wihole Third Plan Period. The Schedule gives detailed provisions
for each sector of industry in each of the two Provinces and also both for
expansion and for new establishments. In certain cases the Government
specifies the minimum scale of each unit to be sanctioned. Vlithin this
framework, IDBP and the Palistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
(PICIC) are named as sanctioning agencies, but their discretion is now limited



- 3 -
mainly to export industries based on locally available raw materials, such
as jute and cotton. The Governmentts control over industrial investment
appears to be too rigid, although it is evident that the Government wishes
to encoutrage private investment and to refrain from too much direct involve-
ment in industry.
Financial Institutions and IDBP's Role
9.        A brief description of industrial finance institutions is given
in Annex 1. Very briefly, two Governuent institutions, the 14est and East
Pakistan Industrial Development Corporations (IwPIDC and EPIDC), with com-
bined assets of around Rs 3 billion, finance public sector projects, such
as large-scale fertilizers, gas, chemicals, cement projects, which private
entrepreneurs are unable or unwilling to undertake. PICIC, a private
institution long associated with the Bank Group, finances medium and large
projects in the private sector.  Its total assets amount to Es 850 milllon.
The Investment Corporation of Pakistan (ICP), a statutory institution,
privately owned but Government controlled, is active in the capital market
by way of underwriting, direct investment and management of mutual funds.
The total funds it has mobilized amount to Es 262 millionO In the small
business field there are two Provincial Government institutions, the West
and East Pakistan Small Industries Corporations (WiPSIC and EPSIC). These
are primarily engaged in promotion and teclmical assistance, but they also
arrange financial assistance through commercial banks and IDBP. The total
funds thus mobilized amount to Rs 75 million on a disbursement basis.
Commercial banks are not active in term lending to industry despite the
encouragement given by the refinance facilities of the State Bank of
Pakistan. The total amount refinanced during 1968/69 was Rs 31.2 million.
10.       The Government has recently announced the establishment of an
Equity Participation Fund u-hich will help small business by providing
equity funds. The Fund will have a share capital of Rs 50 million con-
tributed by the Central Government (Rs 20 million), Provincial Governments
(Rs 10 million), State Bank of Pakistan (Es 10 million) and private
institutions (Rs 10 million).  It will underwrite or purchase up to 400%
of the share capital of medium- and small-enterprises (with a share
capital of Rs 2.5 million or less) promoted by newcomers.  It will have
its own Board of Directors but will be administered by IDBP.
11.        Jithin this framework, IDBP's major task is to finance (mainly
by medium and long-term lending especially in foreign exchange) private
projects Which are smaller than those financed by PICIC. It also finances
some large projects, especially in the traditional fields such as textiles
and jute.  Together with PICIC, it acts as sanctioning agency for private
investment and helps the Government in formulating and implementing in-
dustrial policy.



- 4 -
III.  THE COI1SANY
Background of Establishment
12.       IDBP was established in August 1961 through a reorganization of
the Pakistan Industrial Finance Corporation (PIFCO0), which was created in
February 1949. PIFC0 had a share capital of Rs 20 million, of which 519o
was subscribed by the Central Government and  9%o by institutional and
individual investors. The business it was authorized to transact was to
provide assistance to industrial, mining and electric utility enterprises
in the form of loans, against the security of existing assets (thereby
excluding new enterprises), for texTs not exceeding 20 years. It could
also underwrite share or debenture issues and guarantee loans made by other
entities. PIFCO was hampered in its operations by the lack of foreign
exchange resources, by its restriction to assisting only existing enter-
prises, and, later on, by competition from PICICI, which was established
in 1957.
13.       In 1959 the Government appointed a Credit Enquiry Commission to
make recommendations for a more adequate credit system in the country.
The Conmission found a lack of institutional arrangements for financing
medium-scale enterprises and recommended that PIFCO be reorganized into
an industrial financing institution mainly dealing with medium-scale in-
dustries, and that PICICp although an institution primarily for larger
industries, be also encouraged to extend its activity into this field.
It also recommended that commercial banks extend financial assistance to
small enterprises in cooperation with the Small Industries Corporation
which would provide the technical appraisal of the projects and share the
risk.
14.       IDBP wias established to implement these recommendations.  However,
at that time commercial banks were not prepared to make long-term invest-
ments in small industries and accordingly IDBP was entrusted to finance
small as well as medium-size enterprises.
The Ordinance
15.       The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan Ordinance was
promulgated on July 29, 1961.  It provides for the scope of IDBP's
activities, the principles guiding its operations and organizational
matters.  The Government holds 510/o of the share capital and is given a
wide range of powers over the operation of IDBP. The Ordinance gives
IDBP the powers it needs to function as a development finance company,
but it is unnecessarily detailed and sometimes unclear or illogical. For
example, the Ordinance provides for the kinds of industries eligible for
IDBP's assistance in detail.  Also, in limiting the borrowing power to
five times the paid-up share capital and reserves, debt is dofined
to include bonds, debentures and contingent liabilities but to exclude
other borrowings. The Ordinance needs a thorough review. The Govern-
ment and IDBP agreed, during negotiations, to make such a review, with
a view both to clarification and streamlining.



-5-
Functions
16.       The objectives of IDBP are very broadly defined as "making credit
facilities expeditiously available to industrial concerns in Pakistan."
IDBP is empowered to carry on all activities usually undertaken by develop-
nent banks such as medium- and long-term lending, granting guarantees,
underwriting and direct subscription of shares and debentures. It can
also engage in commercial banking activities such as acceptance of deposits
and providing short-term accommodations. However, the main emphasis is
on medium- and long-term loans and guarantees to finance the fixed capital
requirements of medium- and small-scale enterprises, and other activities
are allowed usually under certain restrictions.
Share Capital
17.       IDBP's paid-up share capital remained at Rs 30 million from 1962
until December 1968, when it wias raised to Rs hO million by a rights issue.
The issue was successful. A list of shareholders as of June 30, 1969, is
given as Annex 2. In accordance with provisions of the Ordinance, the
Central Government holds 5109o of the total shares. The National Bank of
Pakistan, Port of Karachi and West Pakistan Provincial Government hold
another 7.4h%.  The remaining 41.60/ is distributed among 222 private
shareholders including three foreign-owned institutions cperating in
Pakistan.  IDBP again increased its share capital, to Rs 50 million, in
December 1969. The Ordinance allows the Government to guarantee a minimum
dividend on and ultimate redemption of shares, but this provision has
not been resorted to.
Control by Government
18.       Under the provisions of the Ordinance, the Government has extensive
control over the operations of IDBP. First, the Government may appoint
and remove at any time the Chairman of the Board, the Managing Director,
and six of the remaining nine members of the Board. However, the Govern-
ment's appointments are earmarked for various institutions which do not
always act with a single viewpoint or policy, so that the number of Govern-
Iment appointments per se is not the means of Government control. Secondly,
operations not specifically authorized by the Ordinance, as well as certain
important decisions of the Board, require the Government's approval. Such
approval is needed, for instance, for loans exceeding specified limits,
loans to industries not specified, loans to local bodies, direct subscription
for shares, foreign exchange borrowings, declaration of dividends, and
appointment of Deputy Managing Directors. Some of these provisions, however,



- 6 -
are apparently designed as safeguards against too detailed restrictions
imposed by the Ordinance. Thirdlyg the Government at its own initiative
may take certain direct actions affecting IDBP's operations; for example,
it may instruct IDBP?s Board on questions of policy, and if the Board
fails to carry out such instructions, may over-rule the Board.
19.       The Central Government has thus in theory the effective control of
IDBP. However, in practice the Government has made very little use of its
powers and it has never used any of the discretionary provisions. Normally,
the Government exercises its influence through its Board representation.
More important, however, the Government gives its directions through the
investment Schedule and the Priority List of Industries, and by fixing
interest rates and relending terms on foreign exchange made available
through the Government, which apply to IDBP as well as PICIC.  Apart from
the so-called "administered loans" which will be discussed later in
paragraphs 69 through 71, no undue influence on IDBP's day-to-day operations
appears to be exercised. No administered loans have been given IDBP since
1965.
The Board
20.       The Board of IDBP has 11 members:  the Chairman, six Directors and
the Managing Director are appointed by the Goverment, while three Directors
(one from Karachi, one from D,cca and one from Lahore) are appointed by
the respective groups of private sbri.reholders.  The six Government directors
are appointed as follows: two persons serving under the Central Govern-
ment, two persons from each of the Provincial Governments, and two non-
officials (busines3sairen) one from each Province.  The present Board Members
are listed in Annex 3.  lbr. K.A. Marker, a merchant and industrialist,
has been Chairman since inception. He is not involved in day-to-day
operations of IDBP. The Board usually meets once a month, and decides
on all important matters including investment proposals not delegated to
the management. In view of its composition, the Board is essential4r
the place where the Government keeps watch on IDBP8s operations and where
Provincial or regional interests are coordinated.
21.       There is an Executive Committee of the Board, consisting of
seven of the 11 Board members, but the delegated powers are not significant
(dealing with loans up to Rs 1.5 million).  The Executive Committee therefore
serves little purpose and meets very seldom.
Linagement
22.       The present Managing Director is Mr. Zahirul Huq who wras appointed
in November 1966 after serving for many years in the State Bank of Pakistan.



Mr. Huq is an experienced banker who has been instrumental in consolidating
the organization. The Deputy Managing Director in the Head Office is
Mr. Abdul Jabbar Khan, who succeeded in November 1969 Mr. Ziaur Rahman
Ahmed, who left IDBP to join the Bank. Mr. Khan is on deputation from
the National Bank of Pakistan, but has been with IDBP for nine years. The
Deputy generally assists the Managing Director and also supervises the
Karachi Office. Mr. A.M.N. Sulaiman Chaudhury, the Deputy ManagLng Director
in the Dacca Regional Office, represents IDBP in East Pakistan. He joined
IDBP in 1966 after serving in the State Bank of Pakistan, and was promoted
to his present position in January 1969. Mr. Masood Akhtar has recently
been promoted to Deputy Managing Director in charge of the Lahore Regional
Office. He has been with IDBP since 1961. Another Deputy Managing Director,
Mr. A.F.M. Nurul Matin, has also been appointed recently to take charge of
the Equity Participation Fund. He is on loan from the State Bank of Pakis-
tan, where he had about 20 years' experience.
Staff
23.       IDBP has a total staff of 953, including 321 professionals.  The
average length of service of professionals is estimated to be about 5-6
years. Of the total, 304 are in the Head Office and the rest are in three
Regional Offices and 11 Branch Offices. The staffing in the Head Office
as well as Regional and Branch Offices is shown in Annex 4. The large
size of its staff is necessary to deal with a large number of projects
IDBP accommodates, but it presents a difficult problem of personnel admi-
nistration. The staff quality is a mixture of various degrees of compet-
ence, and IDBP is endeavoring to raise the level of the staff's work.
In 1966, it started periodic staff training courses at the Head Office.
So far there have been 11 such courses with the total participation of
136. Also, many of the senior staff who first came to IDBP on loan from
the State Bank and commercial banks have been induced to become permanent.
At present, there remain four senior officials on loan. In general, it
appears that IDBP, which started with a staff of persons relatively inex-
perienced or with persons experienced only in commercial or central banking,
has now built up a fair cadre for development banking. It could now probably
dispense with deputation from outside, thereby improving the morale among
its own staff.
Organization
24.       Overall organization of IDBP is shown in Annex 4.  Three Regional
Offices in Karachi, Lahore and Dacca are the centers of day-to-day operations.
They control several branch offices which number 11 in total and keep
contact with clients in their respective regions. Recommendations in con-
nection with loans originate from Regional Offices.
25.       The Head Office has 14 Departments.  Some of these Departments
are primarily responsible for supervision of the operations of Regional
Offices. These are the Deposit Banking Department, which supervises the
deposit business of Regional and Branch Offices, the Loan Department and



- 8 -
Engineering Department, which review appraisals sent from Regional Offices,
the Foreign Exchange Department, which allocates foreign exchange for
individual loans, the End-Use Department, which supervises the follow-up
work of Regional Offices and the Special Studies Department, which was
established in early 1968 to take over the responsibilities of the End-Use
Department as regards problem projects. Also, the Audit Inspection and
Methods Department conducts inspections of all offices. The remaining
departments are primarily responsible for the overall affairs of IDBP not
delegated to Regional Offices. These are Central Accounting, Public
Relations, Board, Establishment, Staff Training, and Economic Research
and Statistics Department.
Technical Advisory Committees
26.       The Ordinance provides that no loan may be made which has not
been considered by a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). There are three
TACs, one for each region. Their function is to provide IDBP with outside
advice on broader technical and economic aspects of the projects it
considers. Membership comes from the Central and Provincial Governments
and from private business, and includes one or more Board Directors in-
cluding the Managing Director, who is the chairman but normally does not
attend meetings. The committees are supposed to meet monthly but this
is not always done, thus creating delays. Although there might have been
a valid reason at the time of IDBP's inception for the TACs, their contri-
bution is very limited in view of the present level of IDBP's project
appraisal. Moreover, as representation on TACs is similar to that on the
Board, their consideration of projects, when it happens at all, is largely
a rehearsal for the Board's consideration on a regional level. In the
circumstances, the Government should consider abolishing the TACs, when
the Ordinance is revised.
Delegation of Authority
27.       In view of the large number of small operations, IDBP's Board
has found it convenient to delegate part of the loan-sanctioning power to
Head and Regional Offices. Such delegation has been stepped up progressively
and at present is as follows;
For Loans Up to and Including:               Sanctioning Power by:
Rs 150,OOO/Rs 100,000 in Foreign Exchange: Chief Manager of the Karachi
and Dacca Offices
Rs 550,000/Rs 450,000 in Foreign Exchange: Deputy Managing Directors
Rs 650,000/Rs 550,000 in Foreign Exchange: Managing Director



9-
Procedures
28.       IDBP's processing of loan applications involves complicated
procedures and entails delays. First, the appraisal of projects beyond
the discretionary power of Regional Offices is reviewed in detail by the
Head Office, and any points wihich the Head Office finds unsatisfactory
(and this happens very often) are referred back to the Regional Offices.
Secondly, all appraisals are considered by a TAC. Thirdly, the approval
of a project does not mean the earmarking of a certain line of foreign
exchange credit. This is done later by a special IDBP committee and a
considerable time is needed before the loan is committed and a letter of
credit is opened. This delay, as discussed later, is mainly due to the
lack of untied foreign exchange resources and usable bilateral resources.
Recent experience in the Dacca and Lahore Regional Offices indicates that
the average time lag between application and approval is 7.5 months, and
the time lag between sanction and I/C opening is 17 months.
29.       IDBP has recently taken measures to somewhat streamline its
procedures, which will hopefully speed up the processing.  First, the
delegation of sanctioning power has been increased as stated before.
Secondly_ within each Regional Office and each major Branch Office there
has been established a screening committee which is required to decide
within four days after receipt to proceed with, or to turn down, an
application. Detailed applications are filled out only after passing
this committee. Thirdly, a loan-processing time-record is attached to
each application to help insure speedy processing and to detect bottleneckcs.
Fourth, appraisal reports which are to go to the Head Office are then
submitted to TAC; formerly, clearance from the Head Office was required
before that submission.  Fifth, for loans up to R1s 500,000, less detailed
information is now required from the applicant and a si-mplified appraisal
report is prepared. Emphasis is given to the creditworthiness and standing
of the sponsor. Finally, the foreign exchange wihich was allocated to
certain projects but not used by the sponsors within a certain period,
is now reallocated to others.
30.       Although thorough checcidng by the Head Office involves delays,
this is nevertheless helping in improving the standard of IDBPts appraisal
work. Also, the Head Office tries to standardize appraisal reports. The
quality of appraisal is thus improving. All relevant financial and technical
points are analyzed. Special attention is given to inquiries to bankers
and trade :onnections on the creditworthiness of promoters.  The weakness
appears to be that reports mechanically follow the prescribed pattern
and often fail to focus attention on specific aspects according to the
nature of the project. Also, markcet aspects and economic justification
are sparsely covered. As long as the project is covered by the Priority
Iist in the Industrial Investment Schedule, it is almost automatically



- 10 -
assumed to be justified.  In all, IDBPfs appraisal, although it is not
sophisticated enough, has tailored itself to IDBP's business, which is
mostly in traditional industries and for medium- and small-size enter-
prises.
31.       The Regional and Branch Offices are responsible for follow-up
of loans, under the supervision of the Head Office's End--Use Department.
Projects are generally visited at least once a year, more frequently wbiJle
under construction and for larger projects. TDBP usually requires the
deposit of an amount equal to 200/0 of its foreign exchange loans to insure
the borrower's ability to pay local costs, particularly custom duties.
This is released only upon satisfactory evidence of the progress of the
project. Progress reports and financial statements are required. However,
many clients who are private companies, are delinquent in submitting such
reports. In the light of the large number of projects in arrears, a
Special Studies Department was established in January 1968 to make a
detailed study on each of the projects in arrears for over a year. Super-
vising similar departments in Regional Offices, it identifies the causes
of existing problems, devises means to overcome them and gives advice to
the Regional Offices and the management on remedial actions to be taken.
Its activities are helping to deepen IDBP?s expertise in dealing with
difficult projects and to detect the iweakness of original appraisals.
Also, the Department has a healthy influence on the attitude of borrowers,
now that it has become clear that IDBP wants to take more firm action
against defaults.
Management Information and Accounting System
32.       IDBP$s procedures are currently undergoing a process of rationaliza-
tion, essentially through decentralizing authority for normal transactions
(viz. delegation of sanctioning power) and strengthening the Head Officets
supervision on matters needing special attention (viz, Special Studies
Department). This appears to be a move in the right direction.  Howfever,
it is a fact that the complicated system of internal checking within
IDBP, although entailing delays in action, helps to ensure sound invest-
ment decisions at all levels. In this connection, consideration should
be given, once the ground work is laid, to assigning capable staff from
the Head Office to Regional Offices in order to improve day-to-day operations.
Also, a system should be developed providing the rnanagement with accurate
and complete information on operations. The provision of management
information is now being improved by introducing, for example, lists of
projects under study and pending commitments as wiell as monthly reports
on arrears; but much remains to be done.
33.      IlMore importantly, IDBP is now changing its accounting system,
as described in Annex 5. The new system envisages centralizing IDBP's
accounts.  This appears to be very ambitious, given the distances betwDeen
Regional Offices and the fact that no telet-ype and computer system are



- 11 -
being introduced. However, IDBP and its consulting accountants (A.F.
Ferguson & Co.) are confident that the proposed system is feasible, and
there is no doubt that, if it works, it would help expedite and improve
management's information on the affairs of IDBP. Improvement in
organization, procedures, management information and accounts continues to
be sufficien- y i2impcrtant to juLtify close cttention.  During negotia-aions,
IDBP agreed to formulate, or to retain conzultan`s to £orvrriulate, a progiari
£or ' fur tlaer improvement.
Resources
34.       IDBP's resource position as of June 30, 1969, is shown in Annexes
6 and 7 and is summarized below:
(inr million Es)
Capital and Reserves                       86.04
Government's Advances                     121.33
KfW Counterpart Fund                       26.53
Domestic Credit Lines from
State Bank of Pakistan                  138.50
Deposits                                  123.50
Total Rupee Resources                     495.90
Foreign Exchange Resources                865.91
Total Resources                         1,361.8111
1/ Net of cancellations and repayments; all amounts have
been drawn except for Rs 30 million of the credit lines
from State Bank of Pakistan and Rs 191 million of
foreign exchange resources.
35.      /a pital and Reserves.  In addition to the share capital of Rs 40
million,_ reserves and a Special Development Fund amount to Rs 46 million,
bringing IDBP's own funds to Rs 86 million. The Special Development Fund
amounting to Rs 9.0 million was established with Government grants made in
1964 through 1966 by refunding income tax, interest on Government loans and
dividends on Government-held IDBP shares. The Fund may be used only for
write-offs of loans in underdeveloped regions.
36.       Government Advances.  The total of Rs 121 million includes Rs 8
million loans made by the Government through WPSIC/EPSIC which IDBP uses to
finance WPSIC/EPSIC operations. These loans are repayable in 40 years
starting 1964, with an interest of 4% per annum. The remaining Rs 113
million represents loans made directly by the Government out of budgetary
allocations. The terms of these loans were revised on September 12, 1969.
1/ This was increased to Rs 50 million in December 1969.



- 12 -
All loans outstanding as of that date (Rs 111 million) are repayable in 9
equal annual installments, after a grace period of 17 years with an interest
rate of 6%, except for Rs 24.5 million which were and remain interest-free.
The average interest is thus 5.2% per annum. All loans thus consolidated
are subordinated to all other debt and to share capital.
37.       Kfw Counterpart Funds.  IDBP repays foreign credits to the Govern-
ment in accordance with the amortization schedule of sub-loans; but, in the
case of KfW loans, IDBP may use repayments on sub-loans for financing rupee
components of projects pending scheduled repayments to KfW. The Government
bears the foreign exchange risk on such counterpart funds.
38.       Domestic Credit Lines.  Five lines of credit in the amount of
Rs 138.5 million have been provided by the State Bank of Pakistan.  Four of
these credits are guaranteed by the Central Government, whereas the fifth is
against Government securities.  These credits are for fixed periods ranging
between 1 and 3 years, but can be renewed when due.  Bank rate, now 5%, is
applicable except for one loan of Rs 50 million, which is at 4.5%.
39.       Deposits.  Deposit banking was started on August 4, 1966.  The
growth of this source of rupee funds has been spectacular, with deposits
now standing at Rs 123.5 million. Fixed deposits amount to 86% of the
total, while savings and current accounts make up the rest. Nearly half of
fixed deposits are for a term of one year or more. A large part of deposits
comes from pension funds and other stable sources. On current accounts no
interest is paid; on savings accounts with checking facilities, the interest
paid is 4% and without this facility, 4-1/2%.  Interest rates for fixed
deposits range from 5-1/2% (for 3 months) to 7% (for 3 years and over).-/
The average interest paid on fixed deposits is 6.2% and on total deposits,
5.5%. IDBP estimates that the administrative cost involved is about 0.5%.
40.       The Ordinance requires that 40% of the deposits be invested in
liquid assets. At present, Rs 48 million of the deposits are invested in
marketable Government securities which yield about 5%. Another Rs 77 mil-
lion are invested in the interbank call-money market, in which IDBP may
operate as a Scheduled Bank. The yield on these investments has gone down
substantially in the past year, from 6.5%-7% in 1967/68 to 5-1/4%-5-3/4% in
1968/69. Accordingly, all the deposits are backed by lirluid assets, which
do not give enough yield at present. Nevertheless, deposits are a useful
source of liquid funds which IDBP has to keep anyway to meet contingencies;
in the absence of deposits, IDBP would have been forced to use a part of
its long-term resources.
1/ These rates are regulated by the State Bank of Pakistan and are 1%
above the interest allowed to large commercial banks. When IDBP's
deposits amount to Rs 150 million, this differential will have to
decrease to 3/4%.



- 13 -
41.       Foreign Exchange Resources.  IDBP has received foreign exchange
loans between 95971960and1966/1979 in the amount of $286.75 million
net of cancellations (for details see Annexes 7 and 8). These loans are
of three types:
a. Loans negotiated by the Government of Pakistan and
allocated to IDBP in full or in part. The total
amount of these loans is $130.43 million.
b. Supplier's credits negotiated by the Govenmient of
Pakistan and passed on to IDBP. Legally IDBP only
guarantees repayment, but in all other respects
there is no difference with these and loans under a.
The total amount of these supplier's credits is
$141-37 million.
c. Loans directly negotiated by IDBP with a Government
guarantee. There are only three such loans, two
with US Eximbank and one with the Asian Development
Bank. They total $14.95 million.
42.       As shown in Annex 8, new foreign exchange resources made
available to IDBP declined substantially in the past two years, being
$13 million a year (excluding the $10 million Asian Development Bank
loan) as compared with $35 million for 1966/67, $16 million for 1965/66
and $19 million for 1964/65. All these loans, except for the ADB loan,
are tied to procurement from the creditor countries, and sometimes even
to specified goods. Some of the credits come from the countries whose
machinery are not familiar in Pakistan. Also, supplier's credits which
represent about half of the foreign exchange resources are generally
less advantageous to borrowers in that they provide for shorter repayment
periods and also for down payments wihich have to be made above the official
exchange rate due to the Government's requirement of bonus vouchers in
meeting down payments. These factors have substantially inhibited the
lending activities of IDBP.
43.       As of June 30, 1969, letters of credit in the amount of $247.03
million were opened, so that $39.72 million in foreign exchange was still
available. Outstanding commitments pending opening of letters of credit
were $30.11 million, leaving the uncommitted amount of $9.61 million.
44.       Foreign exchange loans are passed on to IDBP at an interest rate
of 6%, unless the original loans provide for higher rates.  TWith a re-
lending rate of 8-1/2o%, IDBP generally had a 2-1/2% interest spread
(compared with PICIC's 2o%). Foreign exchange risk is passed on to the
borrowers.



- 14 -
IV. OPERATIrnS AND POLICI
Operational Policies
45.       The broad outline of operational policies is laid down in the
Ordinance. Important features are as follows:
a. Finance may be short-, medium- or long-term (up
to 20 years), but short-term accommodations appear
to be discouraged.
b. The purpose of finance should be mainly for fixed
capital, and working capital finance is limited to
259o of the total finance granted to any individual
borrower.
c. The maximum amount of finance allowed is Rs 2.5
million including a foreign exchange component of
Rs 2.0 million to any limited compary.r and Rs 1 mil-
lion including a foreign exchange component of
Rs 0.5 million to others. (This compares with PICI0s
usual lo-ver lending limits in foreign exchange of
Rs 1.5 million in West Pakistan and Rs 1.0 million in
East Pakistan.)
d.  iiining, jute, cotton and inland transport are exempt
from the foregoing limitations. Also, exception may
be made wqith Government approval for any other in-
dustry or enterprise.
e. Securities investment appears to be considered as
subsidiary business. Underwriting may be done, but
any securities taken up must be disposed of as early
as possible and within not more than 7 years. Direct
subscription to shares is subject to specific Govern-
ment approval.
f.  Foreign exchange risk must be passed on to the
borrower.
g. All loans mst be secured by property, including
property to be acquired in future.
46.       Apart from these general policies, IDBP is also subject to the
Government's guidelines concerning investment criteria contained in the
Priority List and supplementary instructions issued from time to time
as well as directions concerning the conditions of sub-loans under foreign



- 15 -
credits. Although the discretionary r;wer of IDBP in deciding on its
own operational policy is limited, nevertheless there appears to be a
lack of willingness on the part of IDBP's management to demonstrate its
initiative. Cne of the few decisions made on its own initiative is the
policy to discourage, in general, applications for finance below
Rs 100,000.
Interest and Charges
47.       Interest rates on rupee loans were increased by the Board with
Government approval, as follows) effective August 28, 1968:
Previous
Amount of Loan             Rate                New Rate
up to Rs 100,000                6-1/2%     3%o above Bank rate (5g9)
subject to a minimum of 7-1/29o
from Rs 100,000 to Rs 400,000  6-3/4%      3-l/49o above Bank rate subject
to a minim=u of 7-3/49o
from Rs 400,000 to Rs 600,000  79'o        3-1/20% above the Bank rate
subject to a minimum of 8%o
above Rs 600,000                7-1/29o    40'o above Bank rate subject to
a minimun of 8-1/29o
48.       Although this schedule favoring small loans is in line with the
Governmentts policy of encouraging small business, it is contrary to the
usual banking practice and, it appears, could be revised without too much
real burden on small businesses.  PICIC is charging a 9%0 interest on all
its rupee loans, and the interest rate ceiling on comiercial bankts advance
is 100%. IDBP's interest rates were discussed during negotiations. Govern-
ment and IDBP agreed to review the present rates, for both rupee and foreign
exchange loans, within the context of a general review of the adequacy of
Pakistants interest rate structure for the mobilization of savings and the
economic allocation of resources.
49.       The standard interest rate chargeable on loans in foreign exchange
made from allocations of various foreign lines of credit is fixed by the
Government and was increased from 7-1/20% to 8-1/2%o effective December 10,
1968. The margin between the relending rate and the rate paid by IDBP to
the Government has been fixed at 2-1/29o (2% for PICIC) unless the
interest payable by the Government exceeds 60'o.
50.       1DBP charges a comnitment fee of 1/4 of 1%/ p.a. on loans in
local currency on the undisbursed portion of the loan. It charges 1/4 of
191o per quarter on loans in foreign currency from the date of allocation
of the foreign currency until the opening of the letter of credit or issue
of guarantee, this rate being increased to 1/2 of 19'o if the allocation
is not utilized within 6 months.



- 16 -
51.       Penalty interest of 2% p.a. is charged above the stipulated rate
of interest on installments in arrears. This applies to rescheduled loans,
as well. IDBP also derives additional income from other charges and com-
missions. A full list of IDBP's interest and charges is given in Annex 9.
Trend of Operations
52.       IDBP's annual volume of business (approvals, commitments and
disbursements) from 1961/62 to 1968/69 is shown in Annex 10. During this
period IDBP has approved 3,720 loans totalling Rs 2,137 million. Foreign
exchange loans represent Rs 1,704 million or 80% of the total. Foreign
exchange loans include both (1) loans made from the proceeds of funds
borrowed from abroad and (2) guarantees on suppliers' credit. Since both
operations are very closely analogous in actual operation, IDBP does not
differentiate these two in operational and financial statistics, except
that in the case of guarantees only commissions accruing to IDBP are
considered as income and that in the audited balance sheets guarantees are
shown separately as contingent liabilities. In this report, guarantees
are treated as a part of foreign exchange loans. Local currency loans
largely represent finance conpl.amentary to IDBP's foreign exchange loans.
Also, it is the practice of IDBP to convert arrears in the repayment of
foreign exchange loans into local currency loans. This explains the rela-
tively high percentage of local currency loans outstanding (31% of the
total outstanding loans).
53.       The volume of business has been declining in recent years as
shown in the table below. This naturally reflects the general investment
cllmate, but the shortage of foreign exchange resources also appears to have
inhibited IDBP's business significantly. This is illustrated by the fact
that PICIC, which is in a more favorable position due to the availability of
the Bank funds shows better performance.
(in million Rs.)
IDBP                               PICIC
Approvals  Commitments               Approvals  Commitments
1963/64      399          283           1963       131         115
1964/65      252          215           1964       224         145
1965/66      228          168           1965       158         188
1966/67      324          206           1966       253         194
1967/68      181          143           1967       257         145
1968/69      174          106           1968       383         151
The shortage of foreign exchange resources is also illustrated by an
increased gap between approvals and the resources available to finance them.
It is IDBP's practice to approve loans in excess of available resources,
which is reasonable in view of the time lags involved until commitment and
disbursement. However, such excess in approvals amounted to Rs 127 million
and Rs 141 million, respectively at the end of 1967/68 and 1968/69, compared
with about Rs 30-40 million in the previous three years.



- 17 -
Size of Loans
54.       Annex 11 gives the breakdown of loans committed by size.  The
average size of loans is Rs 0.6 million, which is considerably smaller than
PICIC's average of Rs 2.5 million, reflecting the function of IDBP. Small
loans not exceeding Rs 500,000 each represent 17% in amount but 81% in number.
On the other hand, loans exceeding Rs 2.5 million (the normal lending limit)
represent 55% in amount.  Of this, 64% in amount are for the e.el-pted indus-
tries (jute and cotton) and 36% for such industries as chemicals, sea trans-
port and hotels.
Duration of Loans
55.       The breakdown of loans by duration is shown in Annex 11.  IDBP fol-
lowed the Government's directives with respect to the duration of foreign
exchange loans. These provided that loans larger than Rs 1 million had to
be for 15 years while smaller loans could be between 10 and 15 years (unless
the original credit provided for a shorter repayment period). It was pointed
out to the Government, in connection with both PICIC and IDBP operations
that the duration of loans should be fixed in accordance with the nature of
the project and the financial position of the borrower. The Government has
accordingly withdrawn its directive in this regard. Also, in cases where
the short term of suppliers' credits has resulted in difficulties for the
borrower, consideration should be given for refinancing early maturities in
local currencies.
Purpose of Loans
56.       As shown in Annex 11 about three-fourths of total loans were
extended to finance new enterprises. All loans were made in connection with
new capital expenditure and no finance solely for working capital was ex-
tended.
Industrial Distribution
57.       IDBP's loans heavily concentrate on the textile (33% of total) and
jute industries (17%), as shown in Annex 12. These are the principal indus-
tries under the present economic structure of Pakistan, and also the most
encouraged sectors as export industries based on domestic raw materials.
According to Government statistics, the textile manufacturing sector has a
share of 29%. In the original investment schedule of the Third Plan, provi-
sion for textiles formed 30% of the total provisions and in the Priority
List this was increased to 40%.
58.       Textiles. The bulk of IDBP's financial assistance to the textile
industry is to cotton mills. IDBP has so far financed 111 mills to provide
1.1 million spindles. This compared with the total 4.1 million spindles
installed or sanctioned up to March 1968. Most of these are new units
with 12,500 spindles cach, tho  Gstablichrient of which the Government



- 18 -
encouraged in ear'ier years. Mow many of these units ar e erpinding to
25,000 spindles, but IDBP is having difficulty in financing them due to
the lack of suitable foreign exchange resources. Some of the IDBP financed
mills are located in East Pakistan which does not produce raw cotton and they
are encountering difficulties. But mills in West Pakistan are generally
prospering with substantial Government incentives.
59.       Jute.  The jute industry has a particular importance since this is
at present the most suitable industry for industrialization in East Pakistan.
IDBP has so far financed 34 jute mills in East Pakistan with a total of
8,000 looms, compared with the total capacity of 25,000 looms installed or
sanctioned up to March 1968 in Pakistan. The largest part of such assistance
was effected under a special scheme sponsored by EPIDC.  The aim was to bring
new enterpreneurs into the jute industry with technical and financial assist-
ance from EPIDC and financial support from IDBP. EPIDC is responsible for
construction and management of jute mills of 250 looms each, which are owned
40g% by sponsors, 40O% by the general public and 20% by EPIDC. IDBP has pro-
vided loans totalling Rs 237 million to 26 mills, its loans being guaranteed
by EPIDC until the plants start operations and mortgage is established. Due
to delays in construction, unreliable power supply, increased labor cost
and other adverse factors, these projects had difficulty in meeting the
servicing requirements of IDBP loans after the grace period of 21½ years.
However, the situation has been generally improving due to revised bonus
rates and a gradual increase in efficiency. Most of the mills have started
paying their overdues. These mills are equipped with conventional looms
and several of them are planning to install broadlooms. The present size of
250 looms, although small, is considered to reacha minimum economic scale.
60.       Other Industries.  Other industries of significance in IIBP's port-
folio are chemicals (1107o), food products (5.h4), non-metallic mineral
products (3.8%P), hotels (3.7%), engineering (3 5%) and sea transport (3.2%).
The high percentage of chemicals is mainly due to a small number of "adminis-
tered loans", which are discussed later in paragraphs 69-71. Loans to
hotels also include large administered loans. Loans to shipping companies
include a loan ; Rs 10 million to a single company, majority-owned by
the Government.-/ Inland transport and mining, like jute and cotton, are
exempted from the regular lending limits under the Ordinance. However, IDBP's
financing in those sectors has so far been very small due to lack of viable
projects. IDBP is trying to promote some mining projects.
61.       PICIC's industrial distribution of portfolio, does not show any
striking difference from IDBP's. However, relatively speaking, IDBP places
more stress on cotton, jute, hotels and miscellaneous manufacturing and
service industries, whereas PICIC places more stress on engineering, sugar,
non-metallic minerals (cement, etc.), and recently chemicals.
1/ In addition there are 3 loans totalling Rs 10 million extended to public
sector companies.



- 19 -
East Pakistan 0r2eratiolis
62.        With a total of 1,674 loans in the aggregate amolunt of Rs 876 million,
East Pakistan has had 45g of the number and 41), of the total amount of IDBP
loans committed to date (including administered loans).  In cooperation with
Government policy to further the development of East Pakistan, IDBP has been
placing increasing emphasis on lending to East Pakistan. At present, it is the
policy of IDEP to allocate 60% of credit lines from consortium countries to
East Pakistan.  Tne increased emphasis on East Pakistan is evidenced in the fact
that, during the past four years, 60% of the total number of projects approved
by IDBP were located in East Pakistan as compared with 39% in the proceeding
four-year period.
63.        The bulk of the financial support in this Province went to the jute and
textile sectors (70%), while the greatest number of loans benefitted the EPSIC
small industries programs. The EPIDC jute program represents a major portion of
lending to the jute sector.
64.        Because of shortage of capital, technical know-how, entrepreneurial
spirit and managerial competence, setting up projects in East Pakistan needs
special promotional efforts and involves considerable risk. IDBP, being aware
of these facts and, at the same time, of its role as a national development
institution, has been promoting its business in the Province mainly in cooperation
with EPIDC and EPSIC, as in the jute program already discussed and the small loan
program discussed below. Under those programs, these two institutions are respon-
sible for technical aspects of the projects as well as partly for the financial
risk on IDBP's loans. IDBP's approach appears to be generally sound as a financial
institution. Nevertheless, East Pakistan operations contribute to weaken the
quality of its portfolio. Also, as will be discussed in the following paragraphs,
its operations through EPSIC appear to have inherent problems.
Small Loans
65.        Loans to small enterprises form a major part of IDBP's activities; loans
under Rs 500,000 amount to 81  of the total number of its loan commitments to
date (17' in amount).!/ They absorb a large amount of professional manpower and
jear heavily on the administrative overhead.  Nevertheless, given the lack of
institutional set-up for financing small businesses and the fact that IDBP,
together with PICIC, are practically the sole agencies for channeling foreign
credit to private industry, there is, at present, no alternative for IDBP other
'than taking up this difficult job.
66.        One of the measures devised to solve this problem is the program under
which 1DBP cooperates with WPSIC/EPSIC.  Under the program, WPSIC/EPSIC promotes
a project, prepares the appraisal report and submits it to IDBP. IDBP assesses
the creditworthiness of the promoter and extends a loan. Although money flows
directly betwieen IDBP and the borrower in connection with disbursement and debt
service, the direct responsibility of supervising projects, particularly at the
initial stage, rests with l?SIC/EPSIC.  IDBP follows up projects only through the
progress reports subomitted by Wr7PSIC/EPSIC. The interest spread on loans is
shared between IDBP and EPSIC/WPSIC at 1:2, and the risk of default is shared at 1:3.
Moreover, in the case of WPSIC, 1DBP has priority on secured property.
To provide finance for a part of local currency loans, the Government made a
1/ Reservation should however be made about the significance of the data on
IDBP's small loans since these include-loans for expansion of larger businesses.



- 20 -
deposit with IDBP through WPSIC/EPSIC in the amount of Rs 10 million-/with
the interest of 4% per annum. Also, parts of foreign credits allocated to
IDBP are earmar.ked for this program.  Since the program started in 1962,
IDBP has approved 1,1438 loans totalling Rs 71 million, consisting of 732
loans totalling Rs 52 million for WPSIC and 706 loans totalling Rs 19 mil-
lion for EPSIC (with an average size of Rs 71,000 and Rs 27,000, respectively).
67.       Apart from IDBP's heavy burden of overhead due to the small size
of the loans, this program has two organizational deficiencies. First, at
the appraisal stage, although IDBP is better equipped than WPSIC/EPSIC to
assess the creditworthiness of the small borrower, its capability in this
regard is limited compared with commercial banks with wide branch networks.
Its strength rather rests in the appraisal of projects, which IDBP under
the the EPSIC/WPSIC program cannot do. Secondly, the fact that IDBP follows
up projects only thlrough TPSIC/EPSIC impedes prompt, appropriate action in
dealing with problem projects.
68.       EPSIC has recently developed a lending program for providing AID
funds to small business through commercial banks. Since commercial banks
are generally reluctant to finance small projects, the smallest loans con-
tinue to be made by IDBP, which explains the small ave-:age size of its loans
with EPSIC compared with WPSIC. Both ZPSIC and W'SIC are now trying to
develop this lending through the commercial banks with the help of the World
Bank and other international institutions.  However, both EPSIC and WPSIC
are at present not equipped properly to function as financial institutions.
The Government should study measures for setting up machinery for effective
financing of small business; when such machinery has been established, IDBP
could terminate its operations with WPSIC/EPSIC. During negotiations,
the Government agreed to study this matter and to for;i-late app.2opri& ae
reasures.
Administered Loans
69.       Between 1961 and 1966 the Government referred to IDBP various indus-
trial projects in the promotion of which the Government had taken an active
part. IDBP was requested to "administer" these loans, for a fee of 1/4% per
annum, provided it wias satisfied with the creditworthiness of the promoters.
The arrangements for "administration" were not clear since there were no
contracts and the arrangements were set out in official instructions issued
from time to time. During the negotiations the Government confirmed its
responsibility for the payment to IDBP of all amounts due to IDBP in respect
of, or on account of the guarantee of, loans "administered" by IDBP at
the request of the Government.
70.       At present, IDBP classifies 10 loans as "administered" (the total
amount outstanding as of June 30, 1969, being Rs 137 million), including
three chemical projects (acetate rayon, soda ash and polyethylene), one
cement project, four Intercontinental Hotels, one tire plant and one municipal
1/ Almost Rs 2 million has already been repaid.



- 21 -
slaughterhouse proJect. These are shown in Annex 13. All three chemical
projects have encountered. serious financial difficulties because of basic
problems arising from design, construction and production.  There was, as
of end of June 1969, an amount of Rs 29.3 million overdue in payments of
principal and interest in respect of two of these projects. (Another project
is servicing regularly from the promoter's own resources.)
71.       Although somewhat different from the administered loans, another
operation was done at the Government's direction. In 1967, IDBP invested
Rs 50 million in debentures of the Sui Northern Gas Pipe Line. This was
to finance the local components of a project assis bed by the World Bank.
The State Bank made an advance in the equivalent amount to IDBP wyith Govern-
ment guarantee.  IDBP receives 5% per annum on debentures and pays 4-1/2%
to the State Bank and 1/4% to the Government, retaining 1/4% for itself.
Securities Investment
72.       IDBP's equity investments are small.  On the one hand, many of its
client companies are family-owned and are not willing to part with or to
share control of the companies. On the other, considerations of risk may
often prevent IDBP from taking equity participations in such industrial
ventures.  In the case of larger projects, IDBP cooperates with ICP, the
former providing loan capital and the latter underwriting or taling up
share issues. At present, IDBP holds shares in six companies (four indus-
trial and two financial), at a total cost of Rs 7.7 million. The book
value is Rs 6.0 million, reflecting write-offs in line with market value.
73.       In order to provide equity capital to small businesses, the
Government has recently announced the creation of an Equity Participation
Fund with an initial resource of Rs 50 million. IDBP is expected to admi-
nister this Fund under the direction of the Board of the Fund.
74.       IDBP's portfolio includes government bonds and industrial deben-
tures totalling Rs 100 million, but these are for the purpose of short-term
investment of liquid funds, except for the Rs 50 million Sui Northern Gas
Pipe, already mentioned.
Rupee Guarantees
75.       IDBP generally does not extend guarantees on rupee loans, but
in exceptional cases, it does so, for example, in connection with payment
of customs duties or rupee borrowings of client companies whose assets are
pledged to IDBP.  There was Rs 32 million outstanding in rupee guarantees
as of June 30, 1969.



- 22 -
V. FINANCIAL RECORD
Financial Position
76.       Comparative balance sheets for the last five years are shown in
Annex 14. The principal items of the balance sheets have been summarized
according to their significance and liquidity.
77.       The balance sheet as of June 30, 1969, is sunmarized below.
(in million Rs )
Assets                          Liabilities and Capital
Liabilities
Cash and Call Loans            99        Deposits                        124
Accrued Interest, etc.         12        Current Liabilities              66
Government Bonds               48        Government Advances             121
Other Investments              66        Other Rupee Borrowings         135
Loans                                    Foreign Currency Borrowings   675
Rupee Loans                   305
Foreign Currency Loans        675                                     1,121
980       Capital
Fixed Assets                    1        Paid-in share Capital            40
Contingent Liabilities         32        Reserves                         37
Special Development Assistant   9
Fund
Contingent Liabilities          32
1,239                                     1,237
78.       IDBP's assets increased from Rs 870 million on June 30, 1965, to
Rs 1,239 million on June 30, 1969, increasing by Rs 140 million and
Rs 102 million in 1965/66 and 1966/67, respectively, and by only an average
of Rs 64 million annually for the subsequent two-year period. This reflects
IDBP's rapid expansion through 1967, followed by a marked slow-down in
business.
79.       The portfolio of loans (including guarantees) increased 22% over
the 1965 level to Rs 980.3 million, and together with other investments
(Rs 66.3 million) represented about 845 of total assets. Foreign exchange
loans represent 69% of total loans. Loans in local currency totalled
Rs 304.8 million (31%) including accounts of loans in arrears, local
(Rs 48.1 million) and foreign (Rs 78.0) million. Other investments at
Rs 66.3 million showed a significant increase mainly on account of the
acquisition of Rs 50 million debentures of the Sui Northern Gas Pipe Line.



- 23 -
Qualit  of Loan Portfolio
80.       IDBP's loan portfolio includes a considerable amount of defaulted
accounts. As of June 30, 1969, Rs 698 million of outstanding loans iwere
in arrears, involving a total amount of Rs 126 million overdue in payment
of principal and interest.  However, these include minor arrears for days
and weeks. If arrears for six months or less are excluded, the amounts
decrease to Rs 331 mi.lion and Rs 107 million, respectively.
81.       About half of the Rs 331 million loans in arrears for more than
six months represent loans in which IDBP's interest is protected consider-
ably through special arrangements.
Loans Outstanding
$ of Total     Aw.ount in
No.    Amourt    Portfolio       Arrears
(in Rs million)
Administered loans        2     80.8         8.2           29.32
EPIDC - Jute program     8      73.2         7.5           13.27
EPSICIWPSIC            370      20.6         2.1            6.24
Others                  375    156.4        15.9           58.64
Total         755    331.0         33.7          107.47
82.       Such special arrangements exist as regards the first three cate-
gories of loans shown above. The Government guarantees the ultimate repay-
ment of administered loans. Arrears on jute projects are covered by EPIDC
guarantee, and some payments have since been made by EPIDC and borrowers.
EPSICAWPSIC loans are covered by EPSIC/7-PSIC guarantees to the extent of
75% and, in case of l,PSIC, by priority on security as well.
83.       In view of these, the real risk to IDBP is virtually limited to
the remaining 375 loans totalling Rs 156 million, representing 16% of total
portfolio. This percentage is still high and essentially reflects the low
standard of IDBP's appraisal and follow-up in the past. However, consider-
ation should be given to the faet that IDBP is assisting mainly medium and
small industries which are less resistant to the present difficulties of
industry in Pakistan and also the fact that IDBP has been placing stress on
the development of East Pakistan. Furthermore, IDBPs -management has become
increasingly aware of tle need to improve the situation. Establishment of
the Special Studies Departrent is a move in this direction. More efforts are
now made to effect collections. In 1968/69 there was a slight decline in
the total amount of arrears (includirg less than six months) from Rs 132 mil-
lion to Rs 126 million.
8h.       As of June 30, 1969, I.-BP considered 204 loans totalling Rs 25.3
million (with arrears of Rs 21 million) as bad or doubtful. (These included
51 loans totalling Rs 11.3 million under litigation.) On the basis of
individual assessment of possible losses on these loans, provisions have
beem made in the amount of Rs 13.6 million. In addition a provision of
Rs 2.6 million has been made and the outstanding loan portfolio in the



- 24 -
published financial statements has been reduced by that anount.  As regards
the portfolio of shares, its book value of Rs 6 million is, after wirite-
offs of Rs 1.7 million, in line with market value.
85.       It is evident that IDBP must redouble its efforts to reduce the
level of arrears, by improving appraisal, by enforcing collections more
strictly and by allowing rescheduling in meritorious cases. IDBP concurs
that this must be done and it intends to do so. Nevertheless, the situa-
tion is now improving and the ultimate loss to IDBP should not be very
serious. An accounting firm, A.?. Ferguson & Co., has recently carried
out a thorough study of IDBP's portfolio. In its opinion, any potential
loss to IDBP is covered by the specific provisions of Rs 13.6 million and
the hidden reserve of Rs 2.6 million mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
The present reserves, the Special Development Assistance Fund and provisions
for bad debt total Rs 59 million which is 6% of total portfolio and 38% of
those loans which are in arrear for more than six months and not covered by
special arrangements. This should provide a satisfactory cushion for
probable losses.
86.       The quality of portfolio is discussed in more detail in Annex 16.
Capital Structure
87.       IDBP's capital structulre has been strengthened considerably in
recent years. First, as a result of increasing profit and conservative
dividend policy (pay-out ratio ranging from 19-31% in the past five years),
reserves have been built up, now amounting to Rs 36.9 million or 92% of
the paid-in share capital before the December increase. Secondly, the
Government granted, from 1964 through 1966, a Special Development Assist-
ance Fund in the total amount of Rs 9.1 million. Thirdly, the share
capital was increased by Rs 10 million to Rs 40 million in 1968 and again
to Rs 50 million late in 1969. Lastly, but most importantly, the Government
has recently modified the terms of its loans to IDBP totalling Rs 111 mil-
lion, subordinating them to all other debt and to share capital.
88.       Reflecting this last change and on the basis of balance sheets
as of June 30, 1969, IDBP's capital structure is saummarized as followis:
(in Rs million)
Net wforth                                          86
Subordinated loans                                 ill
Total equity/quasi-equity                          197
Foreign exchange borrowings/guarantees             67,
Rupee borrowings                                   1L5
Deposits                                           123
Rupee guarantees                                    32
Miscellaneous liabilities                           67
Total liabilities                           1,042



- 25 -
89.       Total deot, consisting of foreign exchange borrowings/guarantees,
rupee borrowings/guarantees and deposits, amounted on June 30, 1969 to Rs 975
million.  Compared with total equity and quasi-equity, the debt/equity ratio
Tuas slightly less than 5:1; in fact, the ratio is considerably better nou,
given the increase in share capital in December and generation of earnings.
Given the present quality of portfolio, a 5:1 ratio is considered to be a
prudent limit of debt to equity.
90.       Against the outstanding amount of deposits totalling Rs 123 million,
as of June 30, 1969, IDBP held Rs 99 million in cash and inter-bank loans as
well as Rs 48 million in government bonds. The liquidity position is thus
comfortable.
Earnings Record
91.       Comparative income statements for the past five years are shown
in Annex 15 and analyzed below:
(in Rs million)
1964/65  1965/66  1966/67  1967/68  1968/69
Gross Income                         21.05    54.46    59-64    64.76    70.26
Financial Expenses                    4.68    30.08    34.34    37-67    41.78
Gross Spread              1             37        3     _.        Th27.09   2LM.(
Administrative Expenses               5.95      7.73     8.88      9.59    11.01
Gross Profit                         10.4      16.63    16.4     177       17.47
Provision for Bad Debts               2.65     1.25      2.50     2.55      1.07
Income Tax                            3.54      6.25       64     6.05      6.64
Net Profit                                                       77.2 9 8.90  9.76
Percentage of Average Assets (21-)
Gross Spread                          2.3       2.6      2.4       2.3      2.3
Administrative Expenses               0.8       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.9
Gross Profit                          1.5       1.8      1.6      1.5       1.4
Net Profit as % of
Average Net Worth                    10.4      18.5     14.0      13.5     12.6
Share Capital                        14.1      30.5     27.6     29.7      24.5
92.       Low gross income for 1964/65 was due to the fact that IDBP followed
up to that year the practice of showing only net income of foreign exchange
loans/guarantees. Since then, gross income has included gross income on
loans but only net income on guarantees. The unusually high profit for
1965/66 stemmed from the inclusion of income (about Rs 2.5 million) accrued
in previous years. Taking into account these special factors, IDBP's profit-
ability has been following a more or less consistent pattern.
93.       IDBP's earnings record appears to be fairly stable and satisfactory.
Dividends and Share Price
94.       As already stated, IDBP has been following a conservative dividend



- 26 -
policy, although the rate of dividends has been increasing gradually
(4.5% for 1963 through 1965, 6% for 1966 and 1967, 7.5% for 1968 and 8%
for 1969). The market price for shares is now Es 105, which is considerably
lower than the book value of Rs 215.2i  However, the market price is based
on a very small number of tradings and does not necessarily represent any
real market assessment of the situation.
Audit
95.       IDBP's accounts are audited by two accounting firms (Haslmi & Co.
and A. Zasem & Co.) which have approved all past accounts without qualifica-
tions. IDBP has undertaken, for the future, to have its financial statements
audited by independent auditors MMOQ-t-Wpeto the Bank, in accordance with
sound auditing principles.      aC
VI.  PROSPECTS
Forecast of Business
96.       The investment targets for the Fourth Plan, which will start in
July 1970, have not yet been formulated. However, a preliminary estimate
made by the Government indicates that total investment in the large and
medium industrial sector will increase by 40% compared with actual invest-
ments in the Third Plan Period. This does not seem to be too ambitious
since the level of investment in past years was considerably depressed due
to adverse circumstances. There are many investment opportunities in
agro-based and export-oriented industries such as cotton textiles, jute,
and food processing.
9-7.      Projections of IDBP's operations for 1969/70 through 1973/74 are
shown in Annex 17 and indicate that total ne. &Approvals will amount Lo
Rs 1,404 million, showing a 34% increase over Rs 1,048 million during the
past five years. This is slightly lower than the Government's preliminary
estimates for the nest Plan Period, although the periods covered are not
precisely comparable. Given the continuing interest of entrepreneurs in
investment in textile and jute industries, which are the major sources of
business to IDBP, and assuming the increasing availability of foreign
exchange resources, this estimate appears to be reasonable.
98.       Approvals during the current year are estimated to amount to Rs 216
million, which is comparable with the average in the past five years (Rs 232
million), and are expected to moderately increase to Rs 243 million in
1970/71. Actual approvals in the first half of the current year amounted to
Rs 84 million. Although this is lower than the estimated rate for the entire
years, there has been a considerable pick-up in recent months, and it is
plausible that approvals for the current year will not be much out of line
with the estimate. A slight increase in rupee business is estimated (from
20% to 25% of total business) in view of the increasing availabilityof locally
1/ By comparison, PICIC's shares were quoted at Rs 19.53 in January 1969
against a book value of Rs 20.4.  Its dividend rate is 10%.



- 27 -
produced capital goods and also the necessity of refinancing repayments
of foreign exchange loans. No equity investments, except for the purpose of
liquidity reserves, are estimated. Foreign exchange loans to be approved
during 1969/70 and 1970/71 would amount to Rs 162 million and Rs 133
million, respectively, as compared with Rs 140 million for 1968/69 and
Rs 166 million as average for the past five years. Commitmients of foreign
exchange loans would increase considerably from Rs 88 million in 1968/69
to Rs 169 million in 1969/70. This is based on the assumption that IDBP
would be able to process a substantial part of the existing backlog, con-
sidering better lines of credit now available and in prospect, particularly
untied loans from ADB and eventually the Bank. In later years, the increase
in commitments would be gradual. Total commitments over the 1969/70-1973/74
period would be 1t3% above the last five-year period.
Rupee Resources
99.       As shown in Annex 18, requirement for rupee resources is virtually
limited to the need for disbursements on rupee loans. In the five-year
period from 1969/70 through 1973/74, total rupee disbursements will amount
to Rs 399 million. 1/ This will be provided by recovery on rupee loans
(Rs 136million), Government loans (Rs 93 million), cash generation and
share capital increase (Rs 84 million), KnI' counterpart funds (Rs 47 million),
totalling Rs 360 million, as well as a part of deposits (Rs 113 million).
This appears to be feasible.
Foreign Exchange Resources
100.      On July 1, 1969, IDBP had $9.61 million in foreign exchange
loans available for commitment. On the basis of the projected new commit-
ments, the evolution of foreign exchange resource requirements will be as
follows:
Opening       New            Closing Position
Position    Commitments    (Resources Required)
July 1, 1969-June 30, 1970        9.6          (35,5)              (25.9)
July 1, 1970-June 30, 1971      (25.9)         (37.6)              (63-5)
Of the shortage of $63.5 million, as of June 30, 1971, about $30-35 million
is expected to be covered by bilateral sources, leaving the need of addi-
tional resources at $30-35 million. Assuming another ADB loan of $10-15
million, a Bank loan of $20 million would be appropriate to fill the gap.
1/ This sum includes, not only disbursements required to finance new commit-
ments forecast for over the several years, but also an amount to cover
possible refinancing of arrears on foreign currency loans.



- 28 -
Financial Prospects
101.      Projected earnings statements are shown in Annex 20.  Net profit
after tax is expected to grow grardually, from Rs 9.8 million in 1968/69 to
Rs 0.8 million, Rs 11.5 million and Rs 12.6 million, respectively in the
coming three years, concurrently with increasirg portfolio. Gross spread and
administrative expenses will remain at about the same level.  Profit on share
capital will show a decrease in 1968/69 due to the forthcoming share capital
increase (by Rs 10 million) but will remain at a comfortable level. IDBP
assumes continuation of an 8% dividend.
Actual
1°68/69   196X/70   1970/71   1071/72
Percentage of Average Assets
Gross Spread                        2.3        2.4       2.6       2.5
Administrative Fxpenses             0.9        0.9       1.0       1.0
Gross Profit                        1.4        1.5       1.6       1.5
Net profit as % of
Average Net WPTorth                12.6       10.4      10.8      11.0
Share Capital                      24.5      19.6       23.0      25.2
Pay-Out Ratio                      29        37         34        31
102.      Repayments on debts are expected to be covered by recoveries of
loans by at least 1.3 times, and profits before financial expenses will be
more than 14 times interest payable. These ratios are expected to hold
for the period 1970-1974 and, assuming the same pattern of operations, there-
after.  Debt service coverage appears to be satisfactory, given the comfort-
able liquidity position of IDBP.
103.      Projected balance sheets through 1974 are shown in Annex 19.  The
annual growth of assets in the first two years will be respectively 8.8% and
8.1%, but will be accelerated thereafter till it reaches 11.5% in 1973/74.
The total loan portfolio increases from Rs 980 million in June 1969 to
Rs 1,638 million in June 1974, at an average rate of 11% per year. Borrowings
on the other hand increase from Rs 932 million to Rs lg466 million over the
same period.
104.      IDBP's debt/equity ratio with "debt" considered as borrowings/guar-
antees (excluding subordinated Government borrowing) plus deposits and
"equity" as share capital, reserves and subordinated Government borrow-
ing, will decrease from 4.95-1 in 1969 to 4.6:1 in 1973. These ratios
assume that future Government loans will be subordinated long-term borrowings;
if this assumption proves wrong, action will have to be taken to increase net
worth. The total debt/equity ratio will remain almost on the same level,
wxhich is one of the reasons of a fairly stable level of return on equity as
shown above.



- 29 -
Erid
Debt                Equity          1968/69  1069/70 1970/71   ,71/72  1972/73
Borrowings,         Share capital,        5.0      4b3 .46           4.9       4.6
guarantees and      reserves and
deposits            subordinated
Government loans
All debt            Share capital and   13.4      12.-   12.3       12.5      12.8
reserves
105.      The capital structure thus appears to remain within prudent limits.
However, given the continued softness in IDBP's portfolio, IDBP should increase
its equity as soon as it can to provide adequate protection. It proposes to
explore the prospects of doing so.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions
106.      During the eight years since its establishment, IDBP has developed
into one of the two most important financial irstitutions for private industrial
development in Pakistan. Compared with the other institution (PICIC), it places
more stress on the difficult tasks of financing rmdium and small industries,
and on traditional industries such as cotton and jute mills, and it also helps
more to industrialize East Pakistan.
107.      The Government gives all necessary financial assistance for IDBP's
operations and at the same time maintains considerable powers over its operations
under the Ordinance. In practice, the Government does not at present appear to
exercise undue influence on IDBP's day-to-day operations as permitted by the
provisions of the Ordinance. However, IDBP, both as a recipient of foreign
lines of credit and as a sanctioning agency of industrial investment, is under
strict control by the Government. Government control over the terms and condi-
tions of individual loans and investment criteria should be relaxed although
the overall coordination of investment should remain to ensure desirable
resource allocation.
108.      The present management of IDBP has made special efforts-in consoli-
dating the organization and building up the level of appraisal and follow-up.
They have reached a fairly good level and are improvirg. However, the manage--
ment has long been accustomed to the rigid regime of the Government, and often
fails to demonstrate its initiative in running an independent institution.
1/ After the share capital increase by Rs 10 million.



- 30 -
109.      In operations, small loans in cooperation with EPSIC/tiPSIC do
not appear to work efficiently. A new organizational set-up for small
business finance should be considered so that IDBP can withdrawi from this
field particularly from the joint operation with PTSIC/EPSIC. The Govern-
ment has agreed to review the mechanism for financing small business with
a view to streamlining it. Also, "administered loans" impose on IDBP a
considerable burden of supervision at a very small gain (if any) and cast
some doubt on the soundness of portfolio due to the ambiguous nature of
those loans. This situation will be clarified, and the Government has
reaffirmed its responsibility for these loans.
110.      The financial structure of IDBP has recently been considerably
strengthened and is now reasonably satisfactory. However, continuing efforts
should be made to improve the arrears position, and a further injection of
share capital would be desirable. IDBP will pursue both. Profitability is
satisfactory.
111.      IDBP's business is now seriously constrained due to the lack of
foreign exchange resources. Particularly the lack of untied resources
(exoept for the recently obtained ADB loan) makes it difficult to utilize
bilateral funds by combining these two kinds of funds. IDBP and accordingly
its clientele are thus at a considerable disadvantage compared writh PICIC
and its large clients.
Recommendations
112.      IDBP is a suitable recipient for Bank Group's financial assistance.
An IDA Credit of $20 million, channelled through the Government of Pakistan,
is recommended. This would cover about one-third of the total foreign
exchange requirement approximately over a two-year period, and would not
only increase IDBP's foreign exchange resources but also enhance the utili-
zation of other foreign lines of credit through their use in combination
with IDA funds.
113.      The terms of the Government's onlending to IDBP should be those
normally applied to the Bank's lending to development finance companies,
including flexible amortization schedule and standard commitment charge.
IDBP should pay the Government interest at the rate applicable to Bank loans
at the time of the Board's approval. The loan would provide that
(a)  The debt/equity ratio be limited to 5:1.  Debt will
include all borrowings, long-time guarantees and
deposits; equity will include share capital, reserves,
the Development Assistance IFund and such portions of
the Government's subordinated loans which mature after
the last maturity of the Government's onlending of the
proposed credit.
(b) The free limit be $200,000 with an aggregate limit of
$6 million.



- 31 -
114.      During negotiations the Government and IDBP confirmed that, in
conducting its business, IDBP:
(a) will, in making investment decisions, be governed
by its oi'm assessment of the economic and financial
viability of the project;
(b) will gradually reduce its operations in the field of
small industries as soon as suitable machinery has
been established for this purpose;
(c) will establish charges for its services and capital,
which take account of the cost of the services and
capital provided, the risk involved and the interest
rate structure in Pakistan;
(d)  will ensure that amortization schedules are deter-
mined by the nature and financial aspects of the
project.



AN0NEX 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPM3NT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Industrial Financial Institutions in Pakistan
1.        At the time of Pakistants independence in 1947 the Government was
faced with a number of handicaps. The country was mainly a producer of
agricultural raw materials and trade, industry and the lending system was for
a large part in the hands of the Hindus and Sikhs. In the first two years
the lack of financial institutional arrangements became apparent. To cope
with the situation and to engage in an active industrialisation policy the
Government in 1949 created three financial institutions: The National Bank
of Pakistan, a commercial bank, PIFCO (Pakistan Industrial Finance Corporation),
a development bank and Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation, an
institution which would establish and operate industrial enterprises.
2.        A second development was the creation of financial institutions
which would cater to the specific needs of the two Provinces. It was felt
that East Pakistan posed special problems which required that separate
arrangements would be made to channel funds to East Pakistan for the
development of its industrial sector. In 1955 the National Small Industries
Corporation (NSIC) was established from which in 1957 the East Pakistan Small
Industries Corporation (EPSIC) was split-off as an autonomous entity. The
National Small Industries Corporation continued to exist to serve the Karachi
area. In 1960, the West Pakistan Small Industries Corporation (WPSIC) was
established to serve West Pakistan, excluding the Karachi region.  These two
were in 1962, absorbed into WPIDC (West Pakistan Industrial Development
Corporation), but in 1965 WPSIC was reconstituted.
3.        Over the years, Pakistan has established a number of financial
institutions which serve different types of customers and cater to the
different type of financial assistance required.  The Credit Engquiry Commission
concluded in 1959 that Pakistan's industrial development would be served
best by the creation of three types of financial institutions specializing in
financial assistance to industrial enterprises, according to their size.
PICIC (Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation) was already
established in 1957 and served at that time the same clients, i.e., large
enterprises, as PIFCO (Pakistan Industrial Finance Corporation). The Credit
Enquiry Commission advised to reorganize PIFCO in such a way that it could
cater to the financial needs of medium size industries. IDBP was accordingly
created. At present IDBP is also engaged in the financing of small
industries and works as the financial intermediary for projects sponsored
by EPSIC and WPSIC.
4.        PICIC has a paid-in share capital of Rs 50 million, with an IFC
participation of Rs 2 million. The Bank has granted loans totalling
$ 184.2 million. PICIC has a lower lending limit in foreign exchange of
Rs 1.5 million in West Pakistan and of Rs 1.0 million in East Pakistan.
The average size of its loans is Rs 2.5 million. Until June 30, 1969
PICIC's total approvals of loans and investments was Rs 1.45 billion.



Annex 1
Page 2
5.        EPSIC and ItIPSIC are promotional institutions.  The Credit Enquiry
Commission had originally reserved the financing of small industries for the
commercial banks, however, this recommendation was not followed because
commercial banks were not well enough equipped to carry out this function.
EPSIC/WPSIC are engaged in the sponsoring and promotion of industrial enter-
prises, the development of industrial estates and the establishment of serXn%ca
centers. The funds put at their disposal to establish small private
industrial enterprises are channeled through either IDBP or a consortium of
commercial banks.  Under this scheme, parts of foreign lines of credit are
allocated to IDBP and earmarked for EPSIC/WPSIC projects. Also a loan of
Rs 10 milllion was made by the Central Government. Risk of defa-alt is borne
25% by IDBP and 75% by EPSIC/WPSIC.  In the case of IWPSIC, IDBP has a first
charge on security. The interest spread is distributed between IDBP and
EPSIC/WPSIC in the ratio 1:2. In the last five years 1963/64 - 1968/69,
total loan operations under this program have been Rs 37.1 million for WPSIC
and Es 6.9 million for EPSIC. The technical and economic appraisal of
projects is done by EPSIC/WPSIC while IDBP appraises the financial and
creditworthiness aspects.
6.        There have been two so-called "loan programs" to EPSIC involving
commercial banks, each utilizing a $ 1 million AID commodity loan fumd whicd;
is matched by rupee funds pledged by commercial banks which are also
responsible for creditworthiness screening. Risk of default is shared on a
50 - 50 basis between EPSIC and the lending bank, while of the interest
spread of 3% EPSIC receives 1% and the commercial bank 2v-. This arrange-
ment is now in its third year of operation. In the first two years it
disbursed Rs 24.22 million. Projects call for a total investment between
Rs 100,000 and Rs 1 million, and an average investment of is 450,000.
7.        For the carrying out of their other function EPSIC/hTPSIC depend on
yearly budgetary allocations from the Provincial Government.
8.        Besides the institutions to finance the private sector, there are
two entirely Government-owned promotion institutions EPIDCA/PIDC (East and
lWest Pakistan Industrial Development Corporations), which invest directly
in and operate newly established large-scale industrial enterprises which
private industrialists are unable or unwilling to undertake. Such enter-
prises are ultimately transferred to the private sector if private investors
can be found and other conditions do permit. IDBP and EPIDC jointly finance
28 jute mills in the private sector. Total assets of each Corporation
amounted to around Rs 1.5 billion as of end-June 1967.
9.        Although PICIC can participate in equity and IDBP and PICIC can
underwrite public issues, the Government of Pakistan decided to create a new
institution specializing in the undenrriting and distribution of new issues.
Accordingly, in Februaxy 1966 ICP (Investment Corporation of Pakistan) was
established with an initial paid-up capital of Rs 50 million and a long term
loan of Rs 100 million from the Central Government. ICP's objectives are
(a) broaden the base of equitiy investments and (b) develop the capital market.



Annex 1
Page 3
In general ICP will dispose of its holdings whien they begin to declare
dividends.  IFCP has launched in January 1967 an "Investor's Scheme" under
which accounts can be opened which are used for the purchase of securities
on behalf of the account holder. ICP also manages 3 closed-end mutual funds
with an initial issue value of Rs 40 million. ICP further cooperates closely
with other financial institutions in the financing of projects.
10.       National Investment Trust (NIT) is an open-ended mutual fund which
is controlled by 10 shareholders including PICIC and IDBP.  With total assets
of Rs 322.4 million and net sales of over 25 million units, NIT is an impor-
tant factor in the stock market.
11.       Also there is Industrial Promotion Services, Ltd. (IPS) which is
owned by the Ismaili Group and is engaged in promotions and equity invest-
ment. It provides equity financing to industries of all sizes and gives
advice to prospective investors in the form of feasibility studies and helps
them to meet the requirements of other financial institutions e'ICIC, IDBP).
At the end of 1968 total investments amounited to Rs 2.6 million.
12.       With the proposed Equity Participation Fund (EPF) to be administered
by IDBP, the Government hopes to increase the supply of equitky capital parti-
cularly to medium and small enterprises. Thus ICP will provide capital to
large-scale enterprises and EPF will serve medium and small scale enterprises.
Initial share capital will be Rs 50 million: a provision of Rs 20 million
has been made in the current central budget.
13.       Insurance Companies enter the industrial finance field in two ways:
(a) as participants in underwriting consortia and (b) as general investors in
corporate securities. Investments out of life funds are regulated by the
Insurance Act. Presently they can invest '00 out of these funds in approved
securities which include most corporate securities. They may not own. more
than 5'% of the paid-up share capital of any company and they are restricted
to companies iith a paid-up share capital of Rs 5 million and more. In 1967
the premium income from non-life insurance amounted to Rs 222 million and
life insurance in force amounted to Rs 3.9 billion.
14.       Commercial Banks.  At the end of June 30, 1969 there were 35
scheduled banks with total demand and time deposits of around Rs 11.5
billion.  In February 1968 commercial banks wzere permitted to undertake
term financing up to a ceiling fixed by the State Bank for each bank.
On June 30, 1969 the aggregate of the ceilings was around Rs 200 million.
Also in February 1968 a scheme was introduced to refinance term loans
made by commercial banks to industries. The maximum duration was
originally 5 years but was extended to 10 years in June 1969. The
total amount refinanced under this provision on June 30, 1969 was
Rs 31.2 million.
IBRD/DFC
January 26, 1970



ANNEX 2
INDUSTRIAL DEVEiLOPMET BATK OF PAKISTAN
List of Shareholders as of june 30  99/
_hares (Rs 100 par) Held
Shareholders                                       No.                   % of Total
I.  Government (Directly and Indirect4y)
Government of Pakistan                     204,COO
The National Bank of Pakistan               11,429
(24% Government owned)
The Trustees of Port of Karachi             11,456
The Government of West Pakistan              6,740    233,625          58.41
II. Pakistani Private Interests
The Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd.              6,,740
The Premier Ins. Co. of Pakistan Ltd.        4,137
Ideal Life Assurance Co. Ltd.                5,700
IDBP Employees Provident Fund                4,778
The Eastern Federal Union Ins. Co. Ltd.      8,303
The International General Ins. Co. of
Pakistan Ltd.                              8,680
Pakistan Insurance Corporation               4,971
Dada Limited                                 7,170
Muslim Ins. Co. Ltd.                        12,645
Adamjee Sons Ltd.                            4,909     66,033          16.51
III. Foreign Interests
The Chartered Bank Limited                   6,909
The Norwich Union Life Ins. Soc.             7,440
National & Grindlays Bank Ltd.              16,013      30,362          7.59
Total holdings of moare than 1  shares
each                                                     330,020         82.51
IV. 109 Pakistani Shareholders holding
less than 1% of paid-up capital                        69,980          17.49
Grand Total                                                400,000        100.00
1/ There have been no substantial changes in the shareholdings following the
share ca4ital increase of December 1969.
IBRD/DFC
January 25,. 1970



ANN:EX 
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOHVET BANK OF PAKISTAN
Board of Directors and Executive Conm.ttee
As of June 30j96
Origilal
Representation/                       Date of
i'ame                    Background             Domicile        Apointment
(A) Appointed by the Government
1.   Mr. X.A. Marker, S.K.
Chairman             Business               Quetta (WP)      6-'-1960 *
2.   Mr. M. Majid Ali, C.S.P. Ministry of Finance   Islamabad (-WP) 12-12-1964
3.   *Mr. S.R. Karim, T.Pk.,   hinistry oZ
C.S.R.                     Industry         Karachi (WP)     7-2-1969
4.  -*Mr. M.A. Haq, C.S.P.     West Pakistan
Provincial
Government            Lahore (WP)       4-20-1969
5.  *Mr. M.M. Islam, C.S.P.  East Pakistan
Provincial
Government            Dacca (EP)        8-19-1969
6.    Dr. A. Waheed            Business               Nowshera (WP)    4-26-1962
7.  *Mr. Ahmed Hussain         Chamber of Commerce   Dacca (EP)       12-12-1964
8.   *Mr. Z. Huq, S.K.         Managing Director      Karachi (WP)    11-11-1966
(B) Elected by Shareholders other than the Government
9,  *Mrs. Anwara Begun         Business               Dacca (EP)       6-20-1966
10. *Mian Allah Bakhsh             id                 Lahore (WP)      7-2-1969
11.  Mr. G.R. Arshad               id                 Karachi (WP)     7-2-1966
(*) Members Executive Committee
(**) As Chairman of DBP's predecessor PIFCO
IBRD/DFC
November 24, 1969



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1969-
DEPUTY MA AGiNG DIRECTOR ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~DEUY ANGNGDRETO                                                                                                               EPT MNAIG IECO
PROPOSED EGUI TY                      Mr. IArod Akht,DM                                                                                                                                                                              EREAIT]rS
PARTICIPATION FUND                   STAFF~ Prl,of.i.-hl  RDHA     FIESff-T~ITPKIA
M,. A.F.M. NuroI M.tio                       Oth-r        79M    bu  .b,K-MEANM   u.-C.du
ToI       I1
-   -  -   -  -  - -      -  -  - - - -     -  -  -  -  -  -  -- -  -  -  -     .  ..  .  .  .  .  . .CHIEF MA NAGER
I  HEAD                                                                                                                                          REGIONAL OFFICE - DACCA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RG OA     FFC-IAC
RAVWALPINDI BRANCH                       HFFAE                                                                                                                                 HE      O_O        FICEf                        M. A.H-M  K.,roLoddi~
CONTROLLER  OF OPERATIOSCNRLRF SPECIAL STUDIES AND INSPECTION                                                                                                                         STAFF: P,oBf-Lo-o,    85
STAFF: Prof~ IOo        5                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Otr.Mh-hd4n     31~q
Ot= r,       22                          M.Mb.d~F-.                                                                                                 7                    ,H  .P-                                                 ..
LOAN DEPARTMENT                END-USE DEPARTMEN                                                                          AU DIT IN NEPCTION               SPECIALI STUDIES      I
AND METHODS DEFIEARMN
PESHAWAR B NCH                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHILTTAGONG BRANCH
PESHAWAR ERANCH   I ~STAFF: Prof-ot-iorl    LU        STAFF: FrFeino, 1                                                                           TAFF:FrrNol9                 STF:rfetrl
Orhr          12                .Le,          L                                                                            OEr                           OEr 
-   STAFF: Profeari-ro  3                  ToLol         22                TotI                                                                                       T.t.1       IT                TeM         5      jSTAFF: ProferrioreL   15
Oth-r        LU                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ot-          4
BOARD DEPARTMENT       ~~~ESTABLISHMENT           FOREIG  EXCHANGE                 ENGINEERING                       REERHSTATITC                                      I
DEPARTMEN'T                DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTMENT                     _DIVISION                         DIISO
GUJEANWALA BRANCH                                              STF:jfP                      ISAF  rf   -,                 SAF  ~f.-               1       SAF:ffi-, 9BOGRA BRANCH
Orher       4               Othtr       S9               Orh-r        2                Oth-r                           Ohr 6          Other,6
-   STAFF: Poleci r..  I                      T-Io       75              DTN,        Z6                 Total       2                 Tor,o1       17                T.r.l         Ts-oN                         S                      STAFF: FNr,oo, 2
Toto1       T2                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T..
FLELIC RELATIONS    CENTRAL ACCOUNTS               DEPSTBNIGSTAFF TRAINING
DEPARTMENT    DEFARTMENT                   ~~~~~~DEPARTMENT                 DEPARTMENT
MULTAN BRANCH           IjKHULUA BRANCH
STAFF: Profeteorol   I  STAFF:Proftoni-nl IA      STAFF: PfrioL 3               STFF: Frfetion-I  3
Orhor.  4            ~~~~~~Other,  28               Orhr         3                0rlro-       2      ISAF   efeinl
-   STAFF: Profeei-ro    3      ITrl                                                                                  ST.ro                        T3 Tooh  oNII
Oth'r        9H..                                                                                                                                                                        .. 
TotNI       T2                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t.
REGIONAL OFFICE - KARACHI~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~SL TBRNC
MANAGER: Mr. .A.AZ. Zodi                                                                                                                            t 
STAFF: Prfe,i.- o 48
Orher,       72
STAFF        HEAD OFFICE   REGIONAL OFF.ICE         TTAL
Frofe,ion-l      107                214              321                                                                                                                                                                                               CMLABAC
Orbh-          I_97                 435              AD2
204                649               P53                                        QUETTA BRANCH               HYDERAaAD BRANCH                                                                                                        SAF    fi..k
STAFF: PFEoR.-;noL    I      STAFF: Prof-oior-I,   2                                                                                                                      T
Other,        B              Other,        9
N-rber ofDoF Stf   o f Jo.- 3D, 1969.                                                 TtNI          S              Total        71
7
Jo-0,5, 1970Z
I BRD -4743



ANNEX 5
INDUSMRIfAL DEVELOJ4ET BANK OF PAKISTAN
New,, Accounting, Syte,m
On the recommendations of an earlier Bfaik ivMission, IDBP.
has undertaken to reorganize its accounting system and has retained A.F.
Ferguson. & Co, Chartered Accountants, for the purpose. Ferguson's review of
the tDBP's accounting organization generally confirmed the inadequacy of the
present syste; which may be suitable for a commercial banking operation, but
does not meet the requirements of a development finance institution. Its
audit also revealed the generally poor book-keeping standards of IDBP. Because
of a complete decentralization of the accounts between IDBP's Head Office and
Regional Offices and Branches, the accounting records did not provide
comprehensive and accurate infor-mation on IDBP's business affairs and they
considerably lacked in efficiency and speed.
In February 1965, Ferguson submitted a first outline of a proposed
new system based on a complete centralization of all accounts in the Karachi
Head Office. This proposal, after long deliberation and discussion, in April
1967 was amended into a dual system with a separate unit set up in the Dacca
Regional Office complementary to the Accounts Department at the Karachi Head
Office.  On this basis, Ferguson prepared an Accounts Manual which after
considerable delay was submitted in September 1968 and approved by IDBP for
immediate implementation. Preparations have progressed during the past year
and it is expected that the transition to the new system will be completed soon.
Under the new system the Karachi Head Office will maintain a full
record of Wiest Pakistan operations as well as a record of the share capital,
reserves and all its foreign borrowings. The Dacca Regional Office will keep
a record on IDBP's East Pakistan operations, of its Rupee borrowings from
the Government or other sources in East Pakistan and of all other assets and
liabilities in East Pakistan. A complete system of ledgers, memoranda and
auxiliary accounts will be maintained to provide a complete record Qn the
diverse aspects and phases of IDBP's financial activities. Regular
statements by the Karachi and Dacca Accaouts Departments will keep the Branch
Offices updated on the movements in their client's accounts. The Bank's
accounting procedures in regard to credit operations in foreign currency have
been reviewed to give a complete and accurate record of these operations in
accordance with their contractuial arrangements, including a proper distinction
of IDBP's financial commitment as a borrower/lender or as a guarantor under
the loan.
The new systen has been designed for mechanical operation (punch
cards) and, pending the final selection of equipment, is now being tested
under hand-bookkeeping procedures. Adequate room is provided for in the
system to cover a multiple of the bank's present accounts (about 2,000) and
to supply all statistical data on the operation. However, no program has as
yet been prepared for this part of IDBP's record which represents an important
source of information for the conduct of IDBP's over-all financial activities.



Annex 5
Page 2
It is expected that the introduction of the new accounts system will
strengtheil and speed up IDBP's accounting procedure, help to streamline
and amplify the flow of statistical information and in particular:
(1) ensure a complete, accurate and up-to-date accounting record
of IDBP's operations;
(2)  provide daily statements of trial balance and profit and loss
accounts  for   management's current information;
(3) eliminate duplication of work and allow for costs savings
within a properly planned integration in the over-all
organization;
(4)  facilitate the setting up of a comprehensive statistical
information service.
The new accounting organization is still in the early stages of
implementation, and some allowance has to be made for breaking in the
operation. The ultimate benefits to IDBP of the new system will equally
depend both on the effective utilization of its facilities and on the careful
selection and continual maintenance of a qualified staff for its operation.
IBIT/DFC
November 6, 1969



ANNEX 6
INDUSTRIAL DEVEL0flIOMT BAN OF PAKISTAN
Rapee Resources as of, June 30. 1969
(in al-li Ron F  )
Amount                                    R emarks
Share Capital             40.00
Reserves                  46.04
86.04
Goverrunent Advances     112.96          terms of all Government loans were changed in September 1969, now repayable
in 9 annual installments commencing from September 15. 1986.  Interest will
be charged at 6% except for the interest free loan of RJ 246 million which will
contin*e to be ao. Theas loans are subordinated to,share capital. (Letter dated
September 12, 1969.) Because of repayments between June 30 and September 12,
1969, the amount affected was Rs 110.9 million.
Small Industries           8.37          To be used for EPSIC/WPSIC projects.  Interest rate 4% and repayable in
Corporation Advanoe                    40 years in semi-annual installments starting July 1, 1964.
KfW Counterpart Funds     26.53
Credit Lines from State  138.50          These are the credit lines on which IDBP can draw as necessary. As of
Bank of Pakistan 1/                    June 30, 1969, the total amount outstanding was Rs. 108.50 million, as
compared with the available line of credit of ts. 138.5 million.
Deposits-/               123.50
495.90
L/ Five credit lines as follows:
Amount       Interest Rate           Remarks
1st Credit Line                               200          Bank rate           ( The Bank
2nd   "     "                                 30.00               "( rate is
3rd   "     "                                 50.00        4( at
4th   "                                        8.50        Bank rate               resent
5th        It                                 30.00
2J I.  Fixed or Term Deposits
Up to 6 months                            42.7
From 6-12 months                          16.8
One year and over                         48.7
(of which over 4 years)               (311
108.2
II.  Savings Bank Accounts                        2.3
III.  Current Accounts                            13.0
123.5
IBAD/DFC
November 24, 1969



ANNEX 7
INDUBFRIAL DEVELOMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Foreign Exchange Resources and Utilization aa of June 30. 1969
(us $ millions equivalent)
Procuxrement      Terms of
Year of                                  Interest-/  Tied to Lending  Repayment
Lenders        Loan    Agreement   AmountY   Comitted            Rate  )      Country           (Years)       Down payment
UK             2nd      1959          11.54     11.54 )        ( ¼l above    Yes                repaid       No
3rd     1960           3.72      3.72 )        ( the UK       do                14½           do
5th     1962           8.82      8.82 )        ( Treasury    do                 1,            do
6th     1962          10.73     10.73 )        ( rateg/       do                17½           do
8th     1964           6.33      6.33 )        (              do                17½e          do
9th     1965           8.11      8.11 )        (              do                17½           do
14th     1966           8.64       8.60 )       ( Interest    do                 17½1          do
16th     1967           5.04      4.73 )        ( free         do                17½m          do
18th     1967           5.04      0.143 )       ( do           do                17½           do
UK Platt Brothers       1966           7.13      7.13            6            do                9½e           Yes
Germany        let      1961          38.59     38.59            6            do                9½            Yes
2nd     1961           3.12      3.12            6            do                9½            do
Al 58   1962          15.00     15.00            5½           Partly32'         15            No
Al 62   1962           0.75       0.75           5½           do                15            do
Al 87   1963           5.00       5.00           53p          do                15            do
Al 1140  1964          1.00       1.0C           53½          do                15            do
Al 206  1966           1.25      1.25            3            do                18            do
Al 281  1967           2.50       2.50           5fe          do                15            do
Al 363  1967           3.00      2.05            3            do                17½           do
Al 403  1968           6.50      0.44            3            do                17½2          do
Japan Suppliers 1st    1960           20.30     20.30            5-3/14       Yes               71f           Yes
2nd    1962          12.45     12.45            6            do               91½e           do
3rd    1965           9.84      9.84            6            do                9½            do
Yen    1st    1961           3.26       3.26            6           do                9'fe          No
2nd    1963           0.99      0.99            6            do                9½            do
3rd    1963           4.81      4.81            5-3/4        do                9 fe          do
" 4th    1964         0.98      0.98            5-3/4        do                12½m          do
5th    1966           0.97      0.97            5-3/4        do                12'-          do
6th    1967           2.59      2.59            5-3/4        do                12'-          do
7th    1968           2.67      0.06            5½           do                12            do
8th    l269           2.50      --             5A            do                 ,            do
France         1st      1963           5.24      4.94            5             e8               9-           Yes
2nd     1969           1.00      --              3;7-W        do                10-20-/       do
tlW  ('.xirqbank)       1961           6.21      6.21            5-3/4        do               6-            No
5/  1961      3.46       3.46            5-3/4       do                17            do
_                                0.962  O.80  O.80  5-3/4     do                7             ao
1963           2.46      2.46            5-3/4        do               l'            do
i/      1963           3.35      3.35            5-3/4        do                lib           do
5/      1963           2.08      2.08            5-3/4        do                174ii        do
:/      1%964          2.20      2.20            5t           do                17-c5         do
1966          2.49       2.49            5-3/4       do                64            do
Y , gosl avia   1st     1969           6.96      6.96            3            Yes               7½            Yes
2nd     1964           2.33      2.33            3            do                7½fe         do
ODemark        1st      1966          1.00       0.47            free         do               114½          ND
Poland         1st      1966          1.00       --              21½1         do               8fe           do
USSR           2nd      1966          1.20       1.15            2½i         do                9½            Yes
14th    1968           2.50      0.71            2½-          do                5            do
Switzerland    1st      1966          1.48       1.43            6-3/4       do                9½            do
Belgiuin       1st      1966           6.10      1.95            6            do               9k            do
Italy          1st      1966          6.00       4.92            6           do                9-            do
2nd     1967           0.72      0.72            6            do                9½-,          do
3rd     1968           5.00      2.31            6            do                9,.          do
ADB            1st      1968          10.00      --              Varying7/  No                  114'         No
Not allocated to specific line
of credit                                     30o11
TOTAL                         268.75    277.12
Available for commitment:
1/ Net of Cancellation
2/  Effective rate 8%
3/ Preferably to be used for purchases from Germany
;/  Treasury loan 3Y, Bank loan 7%, Treasury loan 20 years, Bank loan 10 years
For Intercontinental Hotels
i;/ For General Tyre project
7/ Depending on current ADB interest rate (currently 6-7/8%)
8/  Interest Rate payable by the Govw_ int
IBnD/DF0
November 214,1969



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Foreign Exchange Resourzes by Fibancia    r*M  Received
(in US $ million equivalent)
1959/60         1960/61        1961/62         1962/63         1963/64         1964/65         1965/66         1966/67         1967/68         1968/69          Total
County         Li/1    /2 C-                   LY      C/G     Li/  / C.  _ L1/   / C2/    I1/   / C&/   L   // /cG/           Li/  / 2/    L/ /                        Cx2/ Li/ L1   / C, /
ADB                                                                                                                                                            10.00z/         10.00
Belgium                                                                                                               1.00            5.10                                             6.10
Denmark                                                                                                         1.00                                                            1.00
France                                                                 5.o0 0.24                                                                                       1.00            6.24
Germany                              41.71                     20.75            1.00                            1.25            5.50                            6.50           35.0° 41.71
Italy                                                                                                                 o.5o            6.22            5.00                            11.72
Japan                                 20.30     3.26            0.99 12.45      4.81            0.98  9.84      0.97            2.59            2.67            2.50           18.77 42.59
Poland                                                                                                                1.00                                                             1.00
Switzerland                                                                                                     1.00            0.48                                            1.48
UK             11.54             3.72           8.82           10.73            6.33            8.11            8.64            5.04 3,-13      5.04                           67.97 7113
USA                             6.21                   3.46            O. 80    2.4W- 7.(3                                      2.49 -                                         11.16 11.89
usSa °6                                                                              40.44                                            0.71             0.05            2.50            3.70
Yugoslavia                                            6.96                             2,33                                                                                            9.29
TOTAL    11.54  --        9.93 62.01    12.08 10.42    32.147 18.25    14.60  9.96       9.09  9.84    12.86  3.18    16.10 19.16         7.71  5.05    19.00  3.50   145.38 141.37
Total     11.54            71.94          22.50           50.72           24-56            18.93         16.014           35.26           12.76           22.50          286.75
NOTES: 1/ Loans negotiated by the Government of Pakistan and allocated to IDBP
2/ Suppliers' Credits negotiated by the GDP and passed on to IDBP
3/ Loans directly negotiated by IDBP with Government guarantee
IBRD/DFC
November 24,1969
I'



ANN~EX 9
INDUSARTEAL D'XELOPThENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Schedule ofICurrent Interest Rates and Chages
A. Rates of Interest
1. Local Currency Loans
a)  For advances under ER 1 lac.   3% above Bank Rate '1subject to a minimum
of 7½2 p.a.
b)  For advances above Rs 1 lac.   3V6 above Bank Rate subject to a minimum
and up to Rs 4 lacs.           of 7-3/4% p.a.
c)  For advances above Rs 4 lacs  3Y1, above Bank Rate subject to a minimum
and up to Rs 6 lacs.           of 8% p.a.
d)  For advances above Rs 6 lacs.  4% above Bank Rate subject to a minimum
of 89 p.a.
2.  Foreign Exchange Loans              8% p.a.
3.  Penal Interest (Foreign Exchange   2% per annum.
& Local Currency)
B. Charges
1.  Examination & Technical           @ <  with a minimum of Rs 150   and a
Assistance Fee:                    maximum of Rs 25,000.  For EPSIC/WPSIC nil.
For inland transport and trawler minimum
Rs 50   and maximum Rs 10,000.
2. Documentation Charges:             At a uniform rate of o¼%  with a minimum of
Rs 150   and a maximum of Rs 25,000  , or
actual expenditure incurred whichever is
more. Minimum and maximum are respectively
Rs 50   and Rs 10,000   for EPSICAiPSIC
and inland transport and trawlers.
3. Commitment Charge:
a)  Rupee loans                   i of 1% per annum from the date of
communication of sanction on undisbursed
portion of the loan.
b)  Foreign Exchange Loans        i of 1% per quarter from the date of
allocation of foreign exchange till the
date of establishment of L/C or issue of
guarantee. If -the allocation is not used
within 6 months:  la per quarter.
4. Amendment Charge:               (i) @ 1/8% with a minImum of Rs 25   and a
maximum of Rs 1,000   for amendment either
in the security or in the repayment
schedule.
(ii) For EPSIC/WPSIC, Rs 10.
1/ The present Bank Pate is 5%.



Annex 9
Page 2
L/C Commission on Forei   Loans:           or Vo for the first quarter and
1/8% for the subsequent quarters or part
thereof.
6. Guarantee Commission:                i of 1% for every quarter or part thereof.
7. Exchange Risk Comission:             -'< per annum on the principal balance of
the loan outstanding. Only in cases where
the repayment period of sub-loans is
shorter than the period for which the loan
has been obtained by the Government from
the foreign lender. This commission is
passed on to the GovernmAent.
IBRD/DFC
November 24, 1969



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Summary of Operations: 1961/62 .+o 1968/69
(Amounts in mil ion Rupees)   -
Total
1961/62  1962/63   1963/64   1964/65   1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   Amaui5t
Approvals1/
Local currency     55.7      55.7       83.1     104.8      44.7       33.4      21.1      34.6      433.0    1,694
Foreign exchange  211.2     255.2      316.2     146.8     183.8      290.6     160.1     139.8    1703.7    2.026
266.9     310.9     399.3     251.6      228.5     324.0     181.2      174.4    2136.7    3,720
Commitments
Local currency     86.8      53.3       55.0      35.7      36.1       38.8      22.1       17.9     345.8    1,158
Foreign exchange  14.5      136.8      227.5     179.3     131.8     167.8      121.3      88.4    1186.9    1,274
222.3     190.1     282.5     214.9      167.9     206.1     143.4      106.3    1532.7    2,432
Disbursements
Local currency-/   29.9      47.3       49.9      44.5      30.5       48.4      64.9       44.5     359.8    1,145
Foreign exchange   95.4      91.5      125.3     293.0     230.5      114.1     129.5       85.6    1164.9    1,228
125.3    138.8      175.2     337.5      261.0     162.5      194.3     130.1    1524.7    2,373
1/  Include 761 loans later cancelled, totalling Rs 159.6 million consisting of 350 local currency loans
totalling Rs 43.3 million and 11 foreign exchange loan totalling Rs 116.3 million.
2/ Include transfer of arrears from foreign exchange loans.
IBRD/DFC
November 6, 1969



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Analysis of Loans by Size, Duration, Type and Geographical Distribution,
Cumulative up to June 30, 1969
(Amoimt in million Rupees)
Local Currency            Foreign Currency                Total
No.    Amount    %       No.      Amount      %        No.   Amount      %
DURATION
Up to 5 years                      762     67.12    15.5    -        -          -         762      67.12   3.1
From 5 to 10 years                 854    302.27    69.8   1915  I102.76    64.7         2769   1405.03  65.8
From 10 to 15 years                 76      59.11    13.6     107    536.66    31.5       183    595.77  27.9
Over 15 years                        2      4.55      1.1       4     64.27      3.8        6     68.82  3.2
Total     1694    433.05   100.0    2026   1703.69   100.0       3720   2136.74 100.0
SIZE
Re 150,000 and below              1137      45.47    10.5      990     51.11     3.0      2127     96.58   4.5
Over Rs 150,000 - Rs 300,000       219      50.65    11.7     328      72.47     4.3       547    123.12   5.8
Over Rs 300,000 - Rs 500,000       140      53.75    12.4     203      87.54     5.1       343    141.29   6.6
Over Rs 500,000 - Rs 1 Million     140      97.67    22.6     207    150.96      8.9       347    248.63  11.6
Over Rs 1 Million - Rs 2.5 Million  45      83.71    19.3     137    202.56    11.9       182    286.27  13.4
Over is 2.5 Million                  13    101.80    23.5     161   1139.05    66.8        174   1240.85  58.1
Total     1694    433.05   100.0    2026   1703.69   100.0       3720   2136.74 100.0
New Enterprise                     1174    309.78    71.5    1184   1275.14    74.8       2358   1584.92  74.2
Existing Enterprise                 520    123.27    28.5      842    428.55    25.2      1362    551.82  25.8
Total     1694    433.05   100.0    2026   1703.69   100.0       3720   2136.74 100.0
-==== ======   ===,=    ===, =======   =====   ...=a=== sssms........ ann ==
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION
East Pakistan                      1010    201.67    46.5      664    674.26    39.5      1674    875.93  40.9
West Pakistan                       684    231.38    53.5    1362   1029.43    60.5       2046   1260.81  59.1
Total      1694    433.05   100.0    2026   1703.69   100.0       3720   2136.74 100.0
IBarD/DFC
Januarv 19, 1970



ANE 1.2
r:J.:5, 1%L DE7EXi.ZCPMENT BIANK OF PAKISTAN
Tnl;is ar-; ~Dis tribu tion of Loans Sanctioned cpto June 30, 1969
(in million Rupees)
ALL PAKISTANi
Over Rs. 2.5
Industry                     No.  Amount        _        million
Cotton Ginning                        271    25. sl    1.2
jute Ba-ing                             6     4.21     0. 
00t,iirIcals                          106   235.90    11.0        193.2
E. ectrical                            46    15.55     0.7
E:ngineeringg                         166    75.46     3.'5
Food Prodocts                         289   115.66     5.4          13.4
Milling                                65    29.64     1.4
Non-'<ietallic Mineral Products        87    81.36     3.8
linirng                                14    1.35      O.:1
natur-al Gas aLd Motive Power           4    51.23     2.4          50.5
Paper awid Stationery                  52    27.78     1.3
Textale (Cotton and Other)           (      694.07    32.5        442.o
Jute                                 (      365.37    17.:L       338.2
r;,Ibber Prodiucts                     20    10.19     0.l5          3.8
:,4eei-,el and Leather Products       27     8.68     0.4
Road T,a sport                        148    13.45     0.6 
;iv e raort                           73    31.62      1.5          3.1
't'a 5':Yrsio.vs,t)l't                10    67.68      3.2         57.4
V0oo  Products                         45   16.34      0.8
O.' StoC   and Distribution       3    17.09      0.8         14.2
T-^h?;.->',; os and Pr-oductIon      75    32.13     1.5
29    78.08     3.7         53.4
S'Lt-i>.~. 1Goods                      4      0.71     -
~.rinting ard Pablishing              106    29.35     1.4
-Yill Scale Indulstries              1438    71.12     3.3
'II.Ecellaneous                        78    37.31     1.7         46.o
3,720 2,136.74   100.0      1,215.9
INreD/DFC
No-veiiber 214,1969



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
List of Adn'iriistered Loans as of June 30, 1969
Original Amount              Outstanding Amount
Rupee                      Rupee                    Commission
In foreign       equivalent In foreign    equivilent Interest    Charged by
Exchange         (million)   Exchange       (million)  Rate          IDBP
1 Valika Chemical Industries                   DM 39,355,000      51        DM 13,774,250   16           6%           v
2  Indus Chemicals and Alkalies Ltd.          DM 21,830,530       31        DM 14,382,486   17           6%          -do-
.3  Kohinoor Rayon Ltd.                        DM 78,150,000    102          DM 27,352,500   33          6%          -do-
4  Pakistan Cement Industries Ltd.             DM 27,500,000      40        1M 15,900,000   19           6%          -do-
Pakistan Service Ltd.
5 Hotel Karachi Intercontinental           US $0  3,462,800       17      US $  2,597,103   12           5-3/4%      -do-
6 Hotel Dacca Intercontinental             US $   3,348,500       16      US $  2,882,848   14           5-3/4%      -do-
7 Hotel Lahore Intercontinental            US $   2,081,000      10       US $  1,907,565   10           5-3/4%      -do-
8 Hotel Rawalpindi Intercontinental        US $   2,200,900       11      US $  2,017,458   10           5½%         -do-
9 General lyre and Rubber Co. (PAK) Ltd. US $        800,000       4      Us $    350,000    2           5-3/4%      -do-
10  Karachi Municipal Corporation           L Stg.   562,908        6      i, Stg.  326,596    4          3%          -do-
TOTAL                                288                         137
IBRD/DFC
November 6, 1969



ANNEX 14
INTDUSTRUL DEVEBLOPNET BAINK OF PAKISTAN
Balaice Shets:   19614/65  -  1968/69
(in million Rupees)
Assets                              19614/6i. 1i965/6  1966/67   1067/68 1968/69
Cash and bank balances                 6.63   21.93    10.81    25.21    22.58
Call and short-term interbank loans  10.00   19.25    3h.25    33-55    76.77
Accrued interest and other current   10.01   10.51      6.41    10.87    11.46
assets                              26.64          69M 11
Government bonds                      12.14   25.25    34.37    38.02    48.11
Industrial shares                      1.92    6.51     5.80     5.80      6.01
Debentures and Unit Trust              0.50    0.50    24.05    53.54    60.29
1.3^6  32.@   64.22  9T            14141
Local currency loans                 201.34  228.84   274.52   291.31   304.85
Forcign currency loans 1/            605.01  660.95   687.16   693.70   675.47
(of which, Administered loans)      (211.94)(199.35) (181.25) (160.64) (137.26)
R06.1 3 BS.7-9  961T-8   97S0    9-50.72
Fixed assets                           0.73    o.85     1.24     1.35    136
Contingent Ruiee liabilities          21.28   35e34    33.92    32.12    32.37
TOTAL:                          1112739 1009,93  TT  rT. 7 T  3-927
Liabilities
Deposits                               --      1.60    26.24    94.76   123.50
Accounts payable and other accounts  52,79   61.14    51.70    49.83    48144
Provision for bad debts                6.80    8.06    10.56    12.61    13.65
Provision for taxation                 1.15    3.73    1i06       __       o.64
Proposed dividend                      1.35    1,80     1.80      2.25     2.80
62-  7S3-3   91.36   13945  179.03
Uovernment and SIC advances           68,88   76.46    83.94    98.04   121.33
Lines of Credit                       69.02  105.12   153.89   133.07   135.03
Foreign currency borrowing           605,01  660.95   687.16   693.70   675.47
74y91  b4-253   924.99   92T471   T9 3W1
Paid-in share capital                 30.00   30.00    30.00    30.00    40.00
Reserves                               9.47  16.82    23.29    29.95    36.90
Special Development Assistance Fund   3.81    8.91      8.91      9.14     9.14
73T-28   55.73    62.20    69-.09    Er.0
Contingent Rupee liabilities          21.28   35.34    33.92    33.12    32.37
TOTAL:          869.56 1009.93  1112.48  1186147  1239.27
l/Includes foreign currency         1964/65 1965/66  1966/67  1967/68  1968/69
guarantees of                        n.a.  329.18   303.51   311.15   289.11
IBRD/DFC
November 2 4,1969



I.NDlUSTRIIAL DEV¶ELOPMENT BANE OF PAKISTAN
Statements of Earnings: 1964/65 - 1968/69
(in milion Rupees)
Income                     196t/65- 1965/66.   966/67  1967/0. 1968/69;
Interest on investment
and deposits                2.12      4.88      5.68     7.30    10.03
Interest on loans to
Industries                 14.36/    5.082    49,57    54.45    57.09
Commission income             4.57      4.50      4.39     3.01     3.14
Total Gross Income       21.05     54.46     59.64    64.76    70.26
Expenditure
Administrative -expenaes      5.95      7.73      8.88     9.59    11.01
Interest and other                L/
financial expenses          4.68-   30.08      34.34    37.67    41.78
Provision for bad debts       2.65      1.25      2.50     2.55     1.07
Total Expenditure        13.28     39.06     45.72    49.81    53.86
Income before Taxes           7077     15.40     13.92    14.95    16.40
Income tax                    3.54      6.25      5.64     6.05     6.64
Net Income                    4.23      9.15      8.28     8.90     9.76
Dlividend Allocation:
Amount                    1.35      1.80      1.80     2.25     2.80
( of par value)           4.5       6.0       6.0      7.5      8.0
Pay-out 1atio (%)            31        19        21       25        29
1/ Interest payable and received on foreign exchange loans is shown
on a net basis.
2/ Includes income of about Rs 2.5 million accrued in previous years.
IBRLT/DFC
November 24,1969



ANTEx 16
Page 1
INDUSTIRI&L DEVELOPIENT BALNK OF PAKICSTAN
Quality of IDBP's Loan Portfolio
Loans in Arrears
1.        Arising from the credit activities under its specific assignment
in the medium and small industries sectors, DB? over the years has accu-
mulated a greatly mixed loan portfolio with a less than satisfactory repay-
ment performance.
2.        The following is a review of the IDBP's loan position based on
the material available in 1DBP and the mission's field investigations.
A summary of the status of loans overdue on June 30, 1969 is given below
(for further details, see Table A).
Loans Outstanding/         Arrears
(principal and
interest)_
Amount            Amount
No. _  B1. Rs.  %        IMi. Rs.   %
Overdue not more than 6 months
Medium and small loans            630      367.4   52.6    18.70    14.9
Overdue more than 6 months
Medium and small loans            375      156.4             58.64
(of which in litigation and/or
covered by provisions)           (138)    (24.1)            (20.17)
SIC - small loans                 370       20.6              6.24
(of which in litigation and/or
covered by provisions)             (66)    ( 1.2)           ( 0.84)
EPIIDC - Jute mill projects          8      73.2             13.27
Adrninistered loans                  2      80.8             29_2
Subtotal                       755     331.0   17E    107.47
TOTAL                        1,385      698.4  100.0   126.17   100.0
(of which in litigation
and/or covered by
provisions)                       (204)    (25.3)           (21.01)
Total loans outstanding
June 30, 1969                              980.3
1/ Including principal and interest in arrears.



ANNEX i6
Page 2
3.     Total loans overdue, net of deferments (Rs 120 1 million in 1968/69),
on June 30, 1969 amounted to Rs 698.4 million.  Loans in arrears for more
than six months totalled Rs 331 million, representing 33% of total loans
outstanding. However, this latter amount includes (1) Rs 80.8 million
administered by IDBP for the Central Government in regard to which the
ultimate risk is borne by the Government and (2) Rs 20.6 million related
to small loans sponsored by EPSIC and WPSIC in which IDBP's risk Ls linited
to 25 of the loan amount. Also included in this total is (3) Rs 73.2
million in regard to loans to the EPIDC jute mall projects which are fully
guaranteed by EPIDC until all arrears of these loans have been cleared and
a first mortgage has been created on the projects in favor of IDBP. If items
(1) and (2) are excluded from the total of these overdues, the amount re-
lated to IDBP operations is reduced to Rs 230 million, representing 23.4%
of total loans outstanding, and it is further reduced to Rs 157 million, or
16%, if item (3) is excluded. This is still a high proportion, reflecting
on the efficiency of the Bank's past operations. However, in forming a
considered judgment on the position, due consideration must be given to the
difficult circumstances under which IDBP operates and to the present manage-
ment's apparent determination to improve IDBP's operational performance
The management's increased efforts in the recent past are clearly visible and
they seem to have already been showing up in a gradual izi-provement, as is
indicated by the decline in total arrears from Rs 132.1 in June 30, 1968 to
Rs 126.2 million on June 30, 1969.
Analysis of Loan Portfolio
4.    As regards the composition of portfolio, it will be noted that of
the 755 loans overdue for more than six months, aLmost half (370) were in
respect of small loans extended through the East and West Pakistan Small
Industries Corporations (EPSIC/wPSIC). However, wfith a total Rs 20.6 million
overdue, these accounted for only 6% of the total amount overdue. Per
contrast, loans overdue on account of eight EPIDC jute projects and the two
government loans administered by IDBP accounted for a combined Rs 154 million
or 46% of the total. The balance, Rs 156.4 million, representing overdue
in regard to 375 cases of what may be considered the Bank's operations proper.
5.    An analysis of the loans overdue by geographical region is given, in
Table B. Of the total Rs 270.7 million loans overdue for more than one year,
Rs 140.3 maillion were from East Pakistan representing 52% of the total amount
overdue and 53% of the number of projects. Total arrears in principal and
interest wfere Rs 99.8 million, in which West Pakistan shared Rs 58.1 million
and East Pakistan Rs 41.7 million representing 45% and 29% respectively of the
total outstanding amounts of loans overdue in each region. The relatively
high proportion of arrears in the total of loans overdue in West Pakistan
largely reflects the incident of a number of larger projects in particular in
the chemical sector which, because of poor technical and financial planning,
have been facing serious financial difficulties.
6.     A sectoral analysis of the loans in default, for more than one year is
given in Table G.  Of the 618 such projects totalling I1s 270.7 idillion, the
jute and textile industries largely in East Pakiztan shared the larger
part (,is 100.9 million) followed by chemicals (Rs 30.7 million),
food products (as 16.7 million) and service industries including



ANNEX 16
Page 3
hotels, road, river and sea transport (Rs 15.9 million). EPSIC/WPSIC
small loan operations with Rs 15.2 million overdue in regard to 293 projects,
while relatively small in total amount outstanding, took by far the largest
share in the number of loans overdue (47%).
7.     The high incident of IDBP loans in arrears is due to a number of
factors bearing on its operations of which,several are outside its control.
Its borrowers in the recent past have been exposed to severe stresses and
strains zesiting from the effects of war, shortages of imported raw materialas,
politicai uncertainties and tensions and frequent changes in the Government s
economic and financial policies. In particular, the industries depending on
imports of raw materials and intermediate products have been badly affected
by the Government's tightened foreign exchange licensing regulations. The
requirements of bonus payments for the import of raw materials and the less
than adequate allocations of foreign exchange to meet their input require-
ments have adversely affected the operations of these industries and have
resulted in considerable cost increases,frequently leading to a depletion of
their slim working capital funds.
8.     These general factors, apart from their depressing effect on the
industries' operations as a whole, have tended to compound some of the
specific problems encountered by the grovikgr. medium and small size projects
arising from lack of technical experience and managerial capabilities. Due
to the frequent delays in construction and poor technical plaxuning, many
projects have been seriously delayed resulting in large cost overruns and
shortages of working capital. To meet additional financing requirements
these companies have frequently taken recourse to excessive short-term borrow-
ings, causing a distortion of their capital structure and leading to serious
liquidity problems. In these conditions many of IDBP's borrowers found them-
selves unable to meet the servicing requirements of the loans extended to
them under various foreign credit lines, some of which provide for grace
periods which turned out to be inadequate due to the delays in construction.
9.     Many of these problems are of a nature common to other developing
countries, and it should have been possible for IDBP to identify them by a
thorough appraisal and follow-up of the project.
Recoveries of Bad Debt
10.    As of June 30, 1969 IDBP recorded a total of Rs 25.3 million in bad
or doubtful loans represented by 204 cases of which 91. were under litiga-
tion. Against this, IDBP has made provisions in the amount of Rs 13.6
million. Except for a small amount (Rs 36,000) written off in respect to
one single project which had gone into liquidation, IDBP has not made any
write.-offs of bad debt so far.
11.    In making its annual provisions for bad debt, IDBF  has  been
following standard procedures by assessing bad and doubtful loans <within a
uniform classification according to risk as follows (a) complete 1.ossas, (b)
doubtful, and (c) sub-marginal, with provisions up to 100% taking into
account the security available to the Bank in each case. In these assess-
ments account is taken of 30% of the appraised or book value of the fixed
assets, whichever is low¢er, and of the collateral security.



ANNEX 16
Page 4
Special Studies Department
12.       WJith a growing number of loans in arrears IDBPts management has
become increasingly aware of the existing inadequacies of its project ap-
praisal and loan follow-up. In 1968 it established a Special Studies
Department which in conjunction with similar units in the Regional offices
was entrusted with the identification and evaluation of sick and problem
projects. A first comprehensive review of all sick and difficult cases
in the loan portfolio was completed on December 31, 1968. It formed the
basis for a continual follow-up on the overall position through regular
six monthly reports by the regional branches. Based on these submissions,
the Department prepares reassessments of individual ailing projects which,
together with recommendations on remedial measures are submitted for final
review to a special Coordination Committee prior to management action.
13.      CO  June 30, 1969, the group reported a total of 233 sick or
difficult cases. The aggregate amount of Rs 61 million of loans overdue
represented about 31%o of the number and 19% of the total amount of loans
in arrears for more than six months, classified as follows:
Amount        Amount
No. of      Sancttd        Overdue
Cases       Mil  Rs.      Mi1. Rs.
1.  Projects behind schedule              50           58.2            3.2
2.  Sick and difficult projects           92          233.5          42.7
3.  Projects under litigation             91           25.0          15.1
233         316.7           61.0
14.       To date the Special Studies Department has evaluated 130 cases
involving loans overdue in the aggregate amount of Rs 58.8 million. Remedial
measures so far have been taken in regard to 33 projects involving overdues
in the amount of Rs 18.1 million and nine more projects with overdues
Rs 1.5 million were pending with the Coordination Committee.
15.       The work of the Special Studies Department has greatly enhanced
the IDBP's loan follow-up and, in conjunction with the comprehensive audit
of the loan portfolio now under way, it should provide the necessary basis
for effective and productive future end-use supervision.
Conclusions of A.F. Ferguson and Co.'s Examination of IDBP's Portfolio
16.       A.F. Ferguson & Co. has made a comprehensive study of IDBP's
projects in arrears which covered (i) all projects which were classified
by IDBP as doubtful or under litigation, (ii) a substantial part of
projects in arrears for more than one year, (iii) all projects with
arrears of less than one year and total disbursements exceeded Rs 1 mil-
lion, and (iv) a minor part of projects in arrears for less than one year
with total disbursement below Rs 1 million. The conclusions are:



AMNE 16
Page5
a. IDBP's provision of Rs 13.6 million against debt
which it considers doubtful is adequate to cover
any losses which may arise in respect with such
debt.
b. IDBPts contingency reserve of Rs 2.6 million which
is not shown in its published accounts is adequate
to cover any other irrevocable debts relating to
loans.
IBRD/DFC
January 26, 1970



ANNEX 16
TABLE A
INDUTTRIAL DEMELOPMAT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Statement of Loans Overdue on J3ne 30  1969
(Amounts in million Rcupees)
Arrears of
No.  of  Loan Amount           Princ:ipal
Proje ts   Outstanding    %   &  erest4 
Total loans overdue              1,439        818.53
Rescheduled in F.Y.
1968/69                           (54)      (120.12)
Loans overdue, 6/30/69           1,3M5
Loans overdule not more
than 6 months                     630        367-451/   52.6    18.70    14.9
a. EPIDC interests                 8         73.21-              13.27
b. Administered projects            2        80.76/              29.32
c. Small Industries Corp.:
WPSIC                      139         16.85                4.21
EPSIC                      165 304    2.59        19.44     1.19     5.40
d. IDBP                          237        132.32               38.47
551       305.73      43.8     86.46    68,5
Loans under litigation
and/or for which provisions
have been made:
a.  SIC - WAPSIC          18           0.45              0.26
EPSIC           48      66  0.72   1.17        0.58     0.84
b. IDBP                           138        24.06               20.17
204        25.232/     3.6     21.01    J6.6
TOTAL                1,385       698.41      100.0   126.17   100.0
1/ These loans are secured by EPIDC guarantee which will be released after
all arrears have been cleared and mortgages on the fixed assets have
been created in IDBP's favor.
2/ Repayment guaranteed by Government of Pakistan.
3/ IDBP shares 25;' of risk which has priority over TiJPSIC's claim and,
in the case of EPSIC, is shared between IDBP and EPSIC in proportion
25/75-.
4/ Provisions for possible losses on these accounts as of June 30, 1969
totalled Rs 13.65 million.
IBR?D/DFC
November 6, 1969



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
GeogaphcalDis"lmlm  f LansOverdus for More Than One Year at June 30, 1969
Loan Amounts Overdue                         Arre.s of Principal & Interest
REGION                     IflBP                    sic                    TO!IL           IDBP         sIC       TOTAL
No.  *f   Rs.         No.  of    Rs.          No.  of   Rs.          Rs*.      rK.          Rs.
Projects Million      Projects  Million       Projects Million    Million    Nillion    Nillion
East Pakistan             156     137.99        173       2.33          329     14o.32       4o.09      1.58       41.67
West Pakistan:
Karachi                  64      49.07         19       0.34                               24.63      0.19
Lahore                  laL 68 -              10 la                                        a2A 2978   3A.Z
Total - West Pakistan     169     117.48        120      12.91          289     130.39       54.41      3.74       58.15
TOTAL           325     255.47        293      15.24          618     270.71       94-50      5.32       99.82
*Including arrears in principal and interest.
IBRD/DFC
November 6, 1969



ANNEX '10
Table C
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PA1USTAN
Sectoral Anal sgis of~ Loans Overdue For I*ilor T-han One.Year
(in million Rupees)
Loan            Arrears of
Si.                                  No.  of            Amount          Principal
No.  Industrial Sector               Projects           Overdue*        & Interest
1.  Cotton Ginning                     76                3.51              2.17
2. Jute Baling                          1                0.15              0.15
3. Chemicals                            8               83.03             30.67
4. Electricals                          1                0.52              0.26
5. Food Products                       38               16.73              9.81
6. Engineering                         29                7.12              3.89
7.  Milling                             4                0.90              0.31
8.  Non-lietallic Mineral Products     10                3.44              2.06
9. IMining                              1                0.12              0.12
10.  Natural Gas and Motive Power       nil                nil               nil
11.  Paper and Stationery                6                2.10              1.20
12.  Jute and Textile  (Jute)      10          75.00             15.00
(Textiles)  14   24     25.86    100.86   85.46    23.e46
13. Rubber Products                      2                0.41              0.41
14. Leather and Leather Products         4                1.09              0.72
15. Road Transport                      42                2.65              2.64
16. River Transport                     15                2.92              1.83
17.  Sea Transport                       1                0.31              0.31
18.  IWood Products                      9                3.22              1.82
19.  Oil Storage & Distribution         nil                nil               nil
20. Film Studios and Production          4                2.77              1.73
21.  Hotels                              5               10.05              4.63
2'2. Surgical Goods                      2                0.56              0.15
23. Printing and Publishing             23                7.41              3.09
24. Small Scale Industries
(EPSIc/tPSIC)                   293               15.23              5.33
25. Miscellaneous                       20                5.60              3.07
TOTAL                   618              270.70             99.83
*Includes principal and interest.
IBRD/DFC
November 6, 1969



ANNE 17
INDUSTRIAL DENELOPMENT BANI' OF PAKISTAN
Projections of Loan Operations: 1969/70 - 1973/74
(in million Rupees)
Actual                           Projected
Total                                                 Total
1968/69 1964/69 1269/70 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 19X73/7 1969L7I9
Net Sanctions
Lccal currency       35         212       54        63       72      81         90     360
Fowr*gn Currency    1h0         836      162       180      216      234   2~52    12!g
175       1048      216       2h3      283      315       3b2    1h40
-                                                        -   __ 
Commitments
Local currency 1/    18         151       54        63       72      81         90     360
Foreign Currency 2/  88         688      169       179      185     210        235     978
Total commitments  106         839      233       2h2      257     291        325    1338
L/C opened 3/        -           -       141       185      179     190        212     907
Disbursements
Local Currency 4/    44         233      52         57       67       75        85     336
Foreign Currency 5/  86         853     104        152      178     186        197     81
Total Disbursementsl30       lO0-                                 26 12U  27-  282    1153
NOTES: 1/ Local currency commitments are 100%, of the year's net sanctions,
2/ Foreign commitments: 30% of current yearts sanctions.
40% of previous year's sanctions.
30% of sanctions of two years ago.
3/ L/C opened: 30% of current commitments.
50% of previous year's commitments.
20% of commitments of two years ago.
4/ Local currency disbursements: 40% of current year's commitments.
60% of previous year's  commitmxents.
5/ Foreign currency disbursements: 45% of current year's L/C's opened.
45% of previous year's L/C's opened.
1O,  of L/C opened two years ago.
IBRD/DFC
January 26, 1970



ANNEX 18
TDlUSTRIAL DEVELOPITNT BANK OF PAISTAIT
Projected Cash Flow Statements: 1969/70 - 1973/74
(in million Rupees)
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   197i3/14
Sources
Cash generation                       12.28      14.01     15.07      15.83     16.93
Increase in share capital             10.00       --        --         --        --
Increase in Government advances       32.90       _-        --        15.00     45.00
KfW Counterpart Fund                   3.72       8.06     10.90      11.74     12.92
Increase in deposits and other
accounts                            32.99      20.00    20.00      20.00      20.00
Foreign currency borrowing           104.00    152.00    178.00    186.00    197.00
Decrease in call loans                 --        14.31     24.46      15.99      --
Recoveries in local currency          28.45      26.46     25.14      26.34     29.76
Recoveries in foreign currency         84.00     83.29     83.13      84.79     86.91
Total                        308.34    318.13    356.70    375.69    408.52
Applications
Increase in fixed assets               0.10       0.10      0.10       0.10      0.10
Disbursements in local currency       64.60      69.49     79.47      87.72     98.04
Disbursements in foreign currency   104.00    152.00    178.00   186.00    197.00
Increase in investments                1.00       8.68     10.01      11.07     11.83
Repayments of foreign currency
borrowings                          84.00      83.29     83.13      84.79     86.91
Repayments of SIC advances              0.12      0.25      0.25       0.25      0.25
Increase in call loans                58.00       --        --         --       10.14
Dividend payments                      2.80       3.60      4.00       4.00      4.00
Total                        314.62    317.41    354.96    373.93    408.27
Adjustable items-/                   + 0.13    - 0.28    + 0.74    + 0.76    - 0.75
Total                        314.75    317.13    355.70    374.69    407.52
Cash surplus (shortage)               (6.41)    1.00        1.00       1.00      1.00
Opening cash Balance                  22.58      16.17     17.17      18.17     19.17
Closing balance                       16.17      17.17     18.17      19.17     20.17
Note: 1/ Increase in accounts payable, and accrued interest and charges.
IBRD/AFC
November 24, 1969



ANNEX 19
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
Projected Balance Sheets:B1969/70 - 1973/74
(in million Rupees)      Projected
Actual ______________________
196 ~3/69  1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73 19737LL
Assets
Cash and Bank balances           22.58     16.17      17.17     18.17     19.17     20.17
Call and short-term interbank
loans                          76.77    134.77    120.46      96.00     80.01     90-15
Accrued interest and other
current assets                 11.46     11.56     13.92      16.38     18.63     20.77
Investments                     114.41    115.41    124.09    134.10    145.17    157.00
Local currency loans            304.85    341.00    384.03    438.36    499.74    568.02
Foreign currency loans          675.47    695.47    764.18    859.05    96026  1,070.35
Fixed assets                      1.36      1.46       1.56      1.66      1.76     186
Contingent Rupee liabilities     32.37      32.37     3237      32.37     32.37  __32.37
TOTAL                1,239.27  1,348.21  1,457.78  1,596-09  1,757.11  1,960.69
Liabilities
Deposits and other accounts     16O.48    193.47    213.47    233.47    253.47    273e47
Accounts payable                 11.46      12.06     13.52     15.37     17.40     19.71
Provision for bad debts          13.65     16.45      18.65     21.15     23.65     26.15
Provision for taxation            o.64      0.01       1.19      1.06      0.52      1.10
Proposed dividend                 2.80       3.60      4.oo      4.00      4.00      4.00
SIC advances                      8.37       8.25      8.oo      7.75      7.50      7.25
Lines of credit                 135.03    138.75    146.81    157.71    169.45    182.37
Foreign currency borrowing      675.47    695.47    764.18    859.05    960.26  1,070.35
haid-up share capital            40.00     50.00      50.00     50.00     50.00     50.00
Reserves                         36.90     43.08      50.59     59.16     68.49     78.92
Special Development Assistance
Fund                            9.14       9.14      9.14      9.14      9.14      9.14
Government loans (subordinated) 112.96    145.86    145.86    145.86    160.86    205.86
Contingent liabilities          _32.37      32.37               32.37     32.37     32.37
TOTAL                  1,239.27  1,348.21  1,457.78  1,596.09 1,757.11  1,960.69
IBRD/DFC
November 6, 1969



ANMEX 20
::TIJUSTRIAL DEVELORPENT BAIN OF PAXISTAN
Projected Income Statements. 1969/70 - 1973/74
(in million Rupees)
Actual                    Pro&ected
1968/9 ]$Y/7O19,70/71   1971/72   19713 i7T
Income
Interest on investment and
deposits                   10.03  12.99     i4.42     13.75     13.i4     14.50
Interest on loans industry   57.09  60.47    67.20      76.10      85.86     96.60
Commission income             3.14  3.50       3.50      3.50   3_50          3.50
Total Gross Income       70.26  76.96     85.12     93.35    102.50    114.60
EKenditures
Administrative expenses      11.01  12.22     13.69    15.34       17.18     19.23
Interest and other
financial expenses         41.78  45.81     49.58     54.39     60.42     68.62
Provision for bad debts       1.07   2.50      2.50      2.50       2.50      2.50
Total Expenditure        53.86  60.53     65.77     72.23      80.10     90-.35
Income before taxes          16.40 16.43      19.35     21.12      22.40    224.25
Income tax                    6.64  6.65       7r84      8.55       9.07      9.82
Net Income                    9.76  9.78      11.51     12.57     13.33      14.43
Dividend allocation:
Amount               2.80   3.60      h.00      44.00      4.00      4.00
(% of par value)    (8.0 ) (8.0 )    (8.0 )   (8.0 )    (8.0 )    (8.0 )
Pay-out ratio (%)              29     37         35        32        30      '~ 28
IBRD/bFC
November 24,1969



