CONFORMED COPY
;w
CREDIT NUMBER 177 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 177 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1970


﻿I
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1970 between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President, (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIGAL      DEVELOPMENT      ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same fore and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the < Alowing
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(b) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced ty the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (d) of the Project
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of any portion of the Credit
shall have been received by the Association, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to request
such approvals and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of
the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the
Credit shall be cancelled."


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Ordinance" means the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
Ordinance, 1961, as amended from time to time;
(b) "IDBP" means the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan, established
by the Ordinance;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and IDBP, as amended from time to time by agreement between
the Association and IDBP;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and IDBP pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
under which the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to IDBP, as
such loan agreement may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower an-id IDBP, with the approval of the Association;
(e) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
IDBP out of the proceeds of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project;
(f) "investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan, made or
proposed to be made by IDBP out of the proceeds of the Credit in an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(g) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which IDBP proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan, or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment, in accordance with and as provided in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement;
(h) "Investment Project" means a specific project to be carried out by an
Investment Enterprise, as approved, or in respect of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account shall have been authorized, by the Association pursuant to Section
2.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(i) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned, or which is effectively


﻿I
5
controlled, by 9DBP or by any one or more subsidiaries of IDBP or by IDBP
and one or more of its subsidiaries;
(j) "Rupees" and the letters "Rs" mean currency of the Borrower; and
(k) "foreign currency" means any currency other than currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in variou. currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books in
the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of the
Credit. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject t'o the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(i)        amounts expended for the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for carrying out the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal is requested by IDBP on behalf of the
Borrower; and
(ii)       if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be
required to meet payments to be made for the reasonable cost
of such goods and services.
(b) No amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of
an Investment Project unless it shall have been approved by the Association;
provided, however, that such withdrawals may be made in respect of sub-loans
for Investment Projects described to and authorized by the Association for financing
hereunder in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of the Project
Agreement, but only up to an amount in respect of each such Investment Project
which, together with any amount or amounts previously approved or authorized


﻿6
for such Investment Project under this Development Credit Agreement, shall not
exceed the equivalent of $200,000 and, in respect of all such Investment Projects,
the equivalent of $6,000,000 in the aggregate, or, in each case, of such other limit
as shall from time to time be determined by the Association after consultation
with the Borrower and IDBP.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of expenditures made by any Investment Enterprise for any
Investment Project subject to the Association's approval more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received in respect of such
Investment Project the application required under Section 2.02 (b) of the Project
Agreement or, in the case of any other Investment Project, more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the description
thereof pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on
account of payments in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Brtain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May I and November 1 commencing May 1, 1980 and ending November 1, 2019,
each installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 1989
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project; Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Project for which the Credit is granted is the financing
by IDBP of economic development in Pakistan through loans for productive


﻿7
purposes to industrial enterprises in Pakistan which are or will be controlled by
private capital, and through other productive investments in such enterprises, all
for specific industrial development projects, in accordance with the Ordinance.
Section 3.02. (;) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
IDBP on terms and conditions and pursuant to a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, assign, abrogate or waive any provision of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions or any of its agencies or instrumentalities or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by IDBP of any of its covenants,
agreements and obligations in the Project Agreement contained, and shall take or
cause to be taken all reasonable action which shall be required on its part in order
to enable IDBP to perform such covenants, agreements and obligations.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shlAl afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
Section 4.03. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.04. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes that shall be
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of IDBP under
the Project Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and
IDBP.
(b) The Ordinance shall have been amended or repealed so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of IDBP, and such
event shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and IDBP.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specifed as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿9
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of IDBP
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b) the Borrower and IDBP have entered into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in form satisfactory to the Association, and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto in accordance with its
terms, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(c) The instructions set forth in the letters of the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower to IDBP dated March 8, 1969 and April 3, 1969 have been modified
so as to eliminate the requirement of uniform repayment periods for IDBP's foreign
currency loans and to permit the fixing of such repayment periods on the basis
of the nature and the financial aspects of the respective project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, IDBP and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of IDBP in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and IDBP and constitutes
valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and IDBP in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date of June 1, 1970 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Alternative address for cables:
Economic
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Section 7.04. The Borrower irrevocably designates IDBP for the purposes
of taking on behalf of the Borrower any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement and Sections 5.01, 5.02,
5.03, 5.05 and 5.06 of the General Conditions.
IN WITNESS WHEROF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿11
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s / A. R. Bashir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


