CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 177 PAK
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 177 PAK
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Bank Project)
BETWEEN
0
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (hereinafter called IDBP),
established by the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan Ordinance, 1961, of
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, which
agreement and the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association made applicable thereto are hereinafter called the
Development Credit Agreement, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that IDBP agree to undertake certain obligations to the
Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS IDBP, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
shall have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. IDBP shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial and investment standards and
practices, with qualified and experienced management and in accordance with the
Ordinance.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, IDBP shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from
the Ci,edit Account.
(b) When submitting an Investment Project to the Association for approval
pursuant to Section 2.03 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, IDBP shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the Association,
together with a description of such Investment Project (including a brief description
of the costs thereof proposed to be met out of the proceeds of the Credit) and
the terms and conditions of the sub-loan to or investment in the Investment
Enterprise, including the schedule of amortization proposed therefor, a financial
and economic analysis thereof and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(c) Each request by IDBP for authorization to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account in respect of sub-loans for Investment Projects not requiring
approval by the Association shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a brief description of the costs
thereof proposed to be met out of the proceeds of the Credit), for which such
authorization is requested and the terms and conditions of the sub-loan for such
Investment Project, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Association and IDBP shall otherwise agree, IDBP shall
submit applications for approval of Investment Projects pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (b) of this Section and requests for authorizations to withdraw from
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section
on or before June 30, 1972.
Section 2.03. (a) IDBP shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the sub-loans and investments and the administration, operations and
financial condition of IDB?.
(b) IDBP shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project
and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of IDBP. IDBP shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records.
Section 2.04. IDBP shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheet, statement of earnings and expenses and related statements) for each


﻿5
fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (b) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not later than four months after
the end of each such year (i) certified copies of its audited financial statements
for such year, and (ii) an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and (c) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of IDBP and the audit thereof as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 2.05. (a) The Association and IDBP shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and IDBP shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by IDBP of its obligations under this Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of IDBP and any other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) IDBP shall promptly inform     the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by IDBP
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) IDBP shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Credit in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Association and of IDBP.
(b) IDBP undertakes that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any
sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby IDBP shall obtain, by written
agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association and IDBP, including, in the case of any such sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any such investment: (i)
the right to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) the right to require that the goods to be financed with the proceeds of the
Credit shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
the right of the Association and IDBP to inspect such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to require that the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks
and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice and that,
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit


﻿6
and other hazards incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery of the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation,
and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain
all such information as the Association or IDBP shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) the right of IDBP to suspend or terminate
access by the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agreement
with IDBP.
(c) IDBP shall at all times protect itself against losses resulting from changes
in the rate of exchange between Rupees and the currency or currencies in which
IDBP's outstanding money obligations shall have to be met.
Section 2.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBP shall
not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
any such debt, the consolidated debt of IDBP and all its subsidiaries then incurred
and outstanding would exceed five times the consolidated capital and surplus of
IDBP and all its subsidiaries.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The term "debt" means all indebtedness of IDBP or a subsidiary,
including deposits but excluding (A) accounts payable and other
similar liabilities and (B) indebtedness guaranteed by IDBP or
a subsidiary maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred. Reference to the incurring
of debt includes the assumption and guarantee of debt and any
renewal, extension, or modification of the terms of the debt
or of the assumption or guarantee thereof.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan contract
or agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn down
pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, (B) under a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee shall have been entered into and (C) in the case
of deposits, on the date the deposit is made.
(iii)       Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in terms of Rupees debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of


﻿7
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt.
(iv)        The term   "consolidated debt of IDBP and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of IDBP and all its subsidiaries,
excluding (i) debt owed by IDBP to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to IDBP or to any other subsidiary, and (ii) debt
referred to in subparagraph (v) (C) of this paragraph.
(v)         The term  "consolidated capital and surplus of IDBP and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (A) the total unimpaired
capital, surplus and free reserves of IDBP and all its subsidiaries
after excluding such items of capital, surplus and reserves as shall
represent equity interests of IDBP or of any subsidiary in IDBP
or in any subsidiary, (B) the Special Development Assistance
Fund of IDBP (established pursuant to the letter of the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower dated July 3, 1964) and (C) with
respect to any loans or advances made to IDBP by the Borrower
which are by their terms expressly subordinated to the other
indebtedness and the share capital of IDBP, the amount of such
loans or advances which is payable after the date of the last
outstanding maturity of the principal amount of the loan
provided for in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. IDBP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBP shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBP:
(i)         shall not have or acquire any subsidiaries;
(ii)        shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of its property
and assets, except in the ordinary course of business; and
(iii)       shall take all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence
and right to carry on operations and to acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿8
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IDBP shall
not make any prepayment in advance of maturity In respect of any borrowing
by IDBP (other than deposits) having an original term  exceeding one year.
Section 2.11. IDBP shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe
and perform the obligations of IDBP under this Agreement to the extent to which
the same may be applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon
each of such subsidiaries.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to
Section 6.03 thereof, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder
shall terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of IDBP and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the later of
(i)         the date when the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, or
(ii)        December 31, 1987.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power, or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required


﻿9
or permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For IDBP:
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
Kandawala Building
M.A. Jinnah Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cables:
Indeba
Karachi
Section 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
on behalf of IDBP may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of IDBP
or such person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 4.04. IDBP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of IDBP, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by IDBP pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names by their representatives thereunto duly
authorized and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
By     /s/ A. R. Bashir
Authorized Representative


