Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                   Slovak Republic - Health Sector Modernization Support Loan
(HSMSL)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                         Health, Nutrition and Population
Theme                          Public  expenditure,  financial  management;  Health  system
performance; Education for all; Other social protection and risk
management
Project                        P065954
Borrower(s)                    GOVERNMENT OF THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency(ies)        Ministry of Health
Environment Category           C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared              May 15, 2003
Auth Appr. Date                May 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date             July 21, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The Slovak Republic is facing a crisis in the health sector. Public expenditures on health care are
already 7% of gross domestic product (GDP), there is a chronic problem with hospital arrears to suppliers,
and technical efficiency of the health sector as compared with other EU accession countries is poor. Clinical
protocols for major diseases in Slovak Republic are outdated and non-compatible with evidence-based
medicine and cost-effectiveness analysis, and quality of care is generally low. The health status of the people
of Slovak Republic is in line with other middle-income countries, but relative to EU averages, life expectancy
in Slovak Republic is lower by 6 years, and infant mortality and the incidence of tuberculosis are higher.
Death rates in Slovak Republic due to circulatory system disorders, cerebrovascular diseases, and ischemic
heart diseases are significantly higher relative to EU averages.
The Government of Slovak Republic has adopted a comprehensive and an ambitious strategy to
address these problems, and has initiated a broad range of health sector reforms aimed at improving financing,
delivery, production and management of health services. The general thrust of these reforms is to enhance
efficiency, effectiveness, quality and equity in the health sector, with the ultimate objective of improving
health outcomes. The Government strategy gives priority to controlling the growing indebtedness in the
health sector, making hospitals more responsive to the needs of the people by granting legal, administrative
and financial autonomy to state-owned health care institutions, improving quality and effectiveness of health
care by introducing continuous quality improvement, and ensuring equity and access to health services,
particularly in respect of the highly cost-intensive health services and for the poor and the vulnerable sections
of the population. The reforms propose to continue with the decentralization process already underway, and
create legislative conditions for increased participation of regions in the ownership of health care institutions.
The reforms emphasize the need to fight corruption in the health sector, and increase the effectiveness of
health expenditures and interventions.
2. Objectives
The overall goal of the HSMSL is to support comprehensive health sector reforms that promote fiscal
sustainability while continuing to provide quality health care services and financial protection for the



population. The overarching objectives are to: (i) improve fiscal discipline through structural changes in the
health sector that will alleviate the chronic problem of arrears in the health sector, encourage greater technical
and allocative efficiency and institute a system that will promote fiscal sustainability; and (ii) improve the
quality and cost-effectiveness of the health sector; (iii) mitigate any possible negative impacts on health care
access, specially for vulnerable populations.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The rationale for the proposed HSMS SECAL at this point in Slovak Republic's transition rests on
the observations that: (i) the health sector is facing a real crisis and investments are not reaping the desired
outcomes; (ii) the health sector is a major contributor to the fiscal problem facing the country and in the
context of EU accession, there is strong interest and commitment in the Government to reforming the health
sector; (iii) implementation of health reforms so far have been piecemeal; (iv) the present government has
developed a comprehensive reform program and is intent on implementing the proposed reform package,
thereby providing a political window of opportunity for Bank support; and (iv) the approach that Slovak
Republic has adopted to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the health sector requires important policy
and legal changes complemented with selective investments in building capacity of managers to operate under
the new system, developing management information systems, and improving the quality of care, and Bank
support will provide the necessary technical and financial instruments to further this process.
4. Description
The HSMS TAL will have six components to build the institutional capacity in MOH, Health
Insurance Fund and related institutions to effectively design and implement the reform agenda: (i) Reforms in
Health Care Financing and Delivery; (ii) Development of Quality Improvement System; (iii) Development of
Health Management Information Systems; (iv) Reforms in Social and Long-Term Care; (v) Social Impact
Analysis and Public Information Campaign; and (vi) Project management and monitoring.
5. Financing
Source (Total (US$ 55 m)
BORROWER (0)
IBRD (55)
Total Project Cost: USD 55.00
6. Implementation
Slovak Republic is undertaking a major and complex reform of the health care system, which will change
the basic paradigm within which health care financing, delivery and regulatory institutions are required to
operate. International experience in the implementation of health sector reforms shows that adequate technical
capacity of the MOH and other key institutions responsible for regulatory functions, health insurance funds
and health providers is critical for the successful implementation of a health sector reform program. Reforms
proposed in the Government's Manifesto would be supported by a companion Technical Assistance Project
(HSMS TAL), which will focus on the development of technical capacity within Slovak Republic, especially
within institutions such as the MOH, health insurance funds, hospitals and units created to implement the
complex health reforms proposed under HSMS SECAL. Without the development of this technical capacity,
implementation of the health sector reforms are not likely to be successful.



7. Sustainability
Implementation of the reforms proposed in the HSMS SECAL would contribute significantly to
expenditure control in the short term and reduction in the mnediunm termn. The granting of autonomy to
hospitals, especially tertiary hospitals in Bratislava, would have the immediate impact of removing
govemment guarantees to hospitals with concomitant implications for setting a hard budget constraint for
hospitals and reducing the build-up of unsustainable debts to suppliers. There would be improvements in
allocative and technical efficiency in the health sector as health insurance funds and health providers make
necessary changes in response to the incentives generated through the health reforms. There would be greater
transparency in public resource management and planning.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Preparation for the health sector reforms has been underway for quite sometime now. Between
December 1999 and June 2002, the MOH utilized a PHRD Grant of US$509,400 to examine several issues
related to strengthening finance, delivery and management of health services.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The proposed HSMS SECAL is not expected to result in any negative impact on the environment. For the
purpose of Operational Directives 4.01, it has been placed in Category C, which does not require an
environmental assessment. The ISDS has been reviewed and cleared by ECSSD environment staff.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mukesh Chawla
The World Bank
Liaison Office, Budapest
Hungary
Telephone: (202) 458-1291
Fax: (202) 477-3387
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:    (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



