                                               Document o f
                                            The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                     ReportNo. 26155-SK




                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                 OF THE

            INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                                 TO THE

                                       EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

                                                  ONA

       HEALTH SECTORMODERNIZATIONSUPPORT SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN

           INANAMOUNT OFEURO55 MILLION(US$62.92MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO

                                       THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                             August 18,2003




        HumanDevelopmentUnit
        CentralEurope and the BalticStates (ECCU7)
        Europeand CentralAsia Region




This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
                           (Exchange Rate Effective August 15,2003)

                                  CurrencyUnit = SlovakKoruna
                                       1S K K =US$0.0269
                                       US$1= S K K 37.138
                                        EURO =US$1.126

                                  WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                           Metric System

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1- December31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ALOS      Average Lengtho f Stay                  MOF     Ministry o f Finance
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy             MOH     Ministry of Health
CEEC      Central and Eastern European Countries  NHA     National Health Accounts
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
CPI       Current Price Index                     OECD    Organization o f Economic Cooperation and
                                                          Development
DRG       Diagnosis Related Groups                PCU     Project CoordinationUnit
ECA       Europe and Central Asia Region          P E M   Public Expenditure Management
ECSSD     Environmentally and Socially            PHRD    Policy and HumanResources Development
          Sustainable Development                         Fund
EMU       European Monetary Union                 PIP     Project ImplementationPlan
EU        EuropeanUnion                           PPA     Public Procurement Act
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                  PPF     ProjectPreparation Facility
HCSA      Health Care Surveillance Authority      SECAL   Sectoral Adjustment Loan
H I C     Health Insurance Company                S K K   Slovak Koruna
H M I S   Health Management Information System TA         Technical Assistance
HSMS      Health Sector Modernization Support     TOR     Terms o f Reference
SECAL     Sectoral Adjustment Loan
HSMS TAP  Health Sector Modernization Support     TSU     Technical Support Unit
          Technical Assistance Project
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction   VAT     Value Added Tax
          and Development
ISDS      Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet




                  Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu (ECAVP)
               Country Director:     Roger Grawe (ECCU7)
                 Sector Director:    Annette Dixon(ECSHD)
                Sector Manager:      ArminFidler (ECSHD)
             Task Team Leader:       MukeshChawla(ECSHD)

                                 THE SLOVAKREPUBLIC
    HEALTH SECTORMODERNIZATIONSUPPORT SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                        {HSMS SECAL)

                                      LOANSUMMARY

I Borrower     The Slovak Republic
I Amount       EURO$55 million (US$62.92 million equivalent)
  Terms:       IBRDterms
  Objectives   The overall goal o f HSMS SECAL i s to support comprehensive health sector
               reforms that promote fiscal sustainability while continuing to provide quality
               health care services and financial protection for the population. The
               overarching objectives are to: (i)   improve fiscal discipline through structural
               changes in the health sector that will alleviate the chronic problem o f arrears
               in the health sector, encourage greater technical and allocative efficiency and
               institute a system that will promote fiscal sustainability; (ii)improve the
               quality and cost-effectiveness o f the health sector; and (iii)mitigate any
               possible negative impacts on health care access, especially for vulnerable
               populations.
               Implementation o f the reforms supported by HSMS SECAL would contribute
               significantly to expenditure control in the short term and reduction in the
               medium term. The granting o f autonomy to hospitals, especially tertiary
               hospitals in Bratislava, Kosice and Banska Bystrica would have the
               immediate impact o f removing government guarantees to hospitals with
               concomitant implications for setting a hard budget constraint for hospitals and
               reducing the build-up o f unsustainable debts to suppliers. There would be
               improvements in allocative and technical eficiency in the health sector as
               health insurance companies and health providers make necessary changes in
               response to the incentives generated through the health reforms. There would
               be greater transparency inpublic resource management and planning.
               The issues facing the country's health system are complex and will take time
               to resolve. Even though the Government has a clear vision about the direction
               o f the health care reform, it i s well recognized that the strategy for addressing
               structural problems in financing and delivery o f health services, Le., weak
               expenditure management by health insurance companies and hospitals and
               excess hospital capacity, i s risky. It i s imperative that the key pieces of
               legislation are passed so that the reforms and their implementation have the
               appropriate legal support. Even so, there i s the likelihood o f adverse outcomes
               due to the reforms. The reforms will significantly increase market exposure
               for health insurance companies and health care providers. The reforms could
               lead to bankruptcies o f health insurance companies and providers, which
               could result in the disruption o f services, the social consequences o f lay-offs,
               access problems for vulnerable population, loss o f public trust and public
               outcry. Nevertheless, in the current context o f already high expenditures for
               health care, there i s little realistic opportunity to mobilize significant
               additional resources to balance expenditures and revenues. It i s also likely that
               increasing drug costs and pressures to increase salaries will continue to
               exacerbate health care costs. It would also be challenging to sell the reforms
               to key stakeholders (e.g. doctors and patients). In addition, the proposed

              expansion o f social groups obliged to make co-payments will be unpopular,
              though it is hoped that the current 1o w 1eve1 o f fees will mitigate this risk
              somewhat. For the government strategy to succeed, significant risk mitigation
              measures need to be in place. These include, among others: (i)careful
              sequencing and phasing o f the reforms,          (ii)laws that provide clear
              regulations to prevent adverse outcomes o f reforms, including prudent
              financial supervision, government step-in rights, prevention of cream-
              skimming and risk selection, regulated private charges, etc, (iii)  regulations,
              incentive structures should be technically well designed; (iv) protection o f
              vulnerable, first o f all by establishing monitoring capacity o f access to care
              and private expenditures, and then rapid action to respond to problems; (v)
              financial support for restructuring efforts before market environment leads to
              collapse o f health care organizations; (vi) capacity building for key health
              sector staff to operate under new conditions, although the impact o f this will
              not be immediate.
Schedule of   US$17.7 million equivalent after effectiveness, US$17.7 million equivalent
Disbursement: after satisfaction of second tranche, and US$27.18 equivalent after
              satisfaction o f thirdtranche.
Implementing  MinistryofHealth
Agencies      Health Insurance Companies
              Hospitals and other health care providers
Poverty       This operation does not have direct povertyreductioninterventions. However,
Category      as a part o fthe monitoring and evaluation plan, access to care among
              vulnerable groups will be continuously monitored and evaluated.
Rateof Return
Project ID    PO65954
Number




                                                11

                                PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA
PROPOSEDHEALTHSECTOR MODERNIZATIONSUPPORTSECTORALADJUSTMENT
                               LOANTO THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                               Table o f Contents

I INTRODUCTION
 .                        ...........................................................................................................         1

I1 THEECONOMY
 .                       ............................................................................................................         2

I11 KEYSECTORISSUESAND GOVERNMENT'S REFORMPROGRAM
  .                                                                                                                               .............4

A . Key Issues inthe Health Sector                .....................................................................................       4
B   Health Sector Reforms Supported by HSMS SECAL                                        ................................................     6
C ..Social Impact of the Reforms and Measures to Mitigate Possible Negative
    Consequences   .................................................................................................................        12
D ImplementationPlans for the Reforms
  .                                                           .......................................................................       14

IV HEALTHSECTOR MODERNISATION SUPPORT SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT
  .
LOAN(HSMS SECAL)          .........................................................................................................         17

ANNEXES:

Annex 1: Time Table and Task Team                  ..................................................................................       24

Annex 2: Policy Matrix for HSMS SECAL                       .........................................................................       25

Annex 3: Letter of Sector Policy         ...........................................................................................        28

Annex 4: Country at a Glance          ..............................................................................................        36

Annex 5: Key Economic Indicators               ......................................................................................       38

Annex 6: Statement of Loans         ................................................................................................        39

Annex 7: FundRelations Note             ............................................................................................        40


                                PROGRAMDOCUMENT OF THE
          INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                                 TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
      ONA PROPOSEDHEALTHSECTORMODERNIZATION SUPPORT SECTORAL
                       ADJUSTMENT LOANTO THE SLOVAKREPUBLIC

1. Isubmit for your approval the following Program Document on a proposed Health Sector
Modernization Support Sectoral Adjustment Loan (HSMS SECAL) to the Slovak Republic for EURO
55 million (equivalent o f US$ 62.92 million). The proposed Loan i s the first sector adjustment
operation designed to support the Government's overall program o f public expenditure management
and structural reform inthe health sector.

     I. INTRODUCTION

2. The Slovak Republic i s facing a crisis in the health sector. Public expenditures on health care are
already 7percent o f gross domestic product (GDP), there i s a chronic problem with hospital arrears to
suppliers, and technical efficiency o f the health sector as compared with other EUaccession countries i s
poor. C linicalprotocols for major diseases in the S lovak Republic are outdated and non-compatible
with evidence-based medicine and cost-effectiveness analysis, quality o f care is generally low as well.
The health status o f the people o f the Slovak Republic i s inline with other middle-income countries, but
relative to EUaverages, life expectancy inthe Slovak Republic i s lower by 6 years, and infant mortality
and the incidence o f tuberculosis are higher. Death rates in the Slovak Republic due to circulatory
system disorders, cerebrovascular diseases, and ischemic heart diseases are significantly higher relative
to EUaverages.

3. The Government o f Slovak Republic has adopted a comprehensive and an ambitious strategy to
address these problems, and has initiated a broad range o f health sector reforms aimed at improving
financing, delivery, production and management o f health services. The general thrust o f these reforms
i s to enhance efficiency, effectiveness, quality and equity in the health sector, with the ultimate
objective o f improving health outcomes. The Government strategy gives priority to controlling the
growing indebtedness o f the health sector, malung hospitals more responsive to the needs o f people by
granting legal, administrative and financial autonomy to state-owned health care institutions; improving
quality and effectiveness o f health care by introducing continuous quality improvement; and ensuring
equity and access to health services, particularly for the poor and the vulnerable sections o f the
population in respect to highly cost-intensive health services. The reforms will continue, with the
decentralization process already underway, and create legislative conditions for increased participation
o f regions in the ownership o f health care institutions. The reforms emphasize the need to fight
corruption in the health sector, and to increase the effectiveness o f health expenditures and
interventions.

4. The Health Sector Modernization Support Sectoral Adjustment Loan would support the
Government's health sector reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness o f public
expenditures on health care, enhancing quality o f services, as well as increasing the regulatory,
planning and policy-making capacity o f the Ministry o f Health (MOH). The reforms supported through
the HSMS SECAL are part o f the Government's Manifesto for health sector reform, which was
approved inNovember 2002.

5.   Technical and implementation capacity within institutions such as the MOH, health insurance
companies, and hospitals are necessary for the design and effective implementation o f these health
sector reforms. Inorder to support building o f capacity o f the health system to become more efficient in

the financing and delivery o f health care services and to improve the quality o f health care services
while maintaining access to care for the population, especially vulnerable groups, a Technical
Assistance Project i s proposed as a companion operation to HSMS SECAL. The Health Sector
Modernization Support Technical Assistance Project (HSMS TAP) will support the development o f the
institutional underpinnings to support the health sector reforms. The HSMS TAP will have six
components to build the institutional capacity to effectively design and implement the reform agenda in
MOH, Health Insurance Companies and related institutions. These components consist o f (i)                  Reforms
in Health Care Financing and Delivery; (ii)Development of Quality Improvement Systems; (iii)
Development o f Health Management Information Systems; (iv) Reforms in Social and Long-Term
Care; (v) Social Impact Analysis and Public Information Campaign; and (vi) Project management and
monitoring.

     11.       THE ECONOMY

6. Recentprogress. Slovakia's recent track record in stabilization dates from 1998, when it took initial
measures to ensure recovery from a financial crisis. Despite substantial challenges (including the
stringent demands o f EU accession on macro policy) and the adverse external environment, the recent
evolution o f the Slovak economy has been impressive. Despite the slowdown in the EU - the Slovak
Republic's main market - real GDP grew by a robust 4.4 percent in2002 and an estimated 4.1 percent
in the first quarter of 2003, one of the highest growth rates in the region. Core inflation' reached a
historical minimum o f around 2 percent in 2002.               The unemployment rate remains high even by
regional standards, but has started to recede inline with improved performance inthe real sector, falling
from about 18 percent in2002 to 14.6 percent inJune 2003.

7. The deficit in the current account o f the balance o f payments, which remained above 8 percent of
GDP for the last two years, began to show definite signs o f improvement in2003, primarily as a result
o f significantly stronger export performance and the containment o f consumption growth. Large capital
account surpluses have financed the current account deficit while also allowing a substantial
accumulation o f foreign reserves, which rose from 3 months o f imports o f goods and services at the end
o f 2001 to 5.9 months at the end o f 2002. The large capital inflows, which primarily reflect substantial
privatization-related FDI receipts and investments made in anticipation o f EU accession, have
contributed inparallel to a recent nominal and real appreciation o f the koruna. Inthis context, monetary
policy has been geared toward preventing sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate and restraining
upward pressures on the koruna.

 8. Fiscal deficits in the Slovak Republic were relatively high throughout the 1990s. This partly
reflected policy measures to reduce tax pressure and make the economy more competitive and attractive
to investors. Corporate and personal income taxes were reduced and generous "tax holiday" schemes
were introduced. As a result, tax revenues fell by some 7.5 percentage points o f GDP from 1996 to
2001. These reductions were not matched by an equivalent containment o f expenditures, with total
 expenditures and net lending (excluding privatization receipts) declining by only 2.5 percentage points
 o f GDP between 1996 and 2001. At the same time, there was recurrent pressure to bail out critical
 sectors (including the health sector), which continued to runup payment arrears. Inaddition, the Slovak
Republic accumulated significant government guarantees (equivalent to 16 percent o f GDP as o f end-
 2002), mainly to ensure the financing o f such troubled state-owned enterprises as the railway and power
 companies. The uneven implementation o f fiscal plans, with more success in reducing taxes than


 'Core  inflation is defined as the change inprices (headline inflation) excluding the controlled prices (such as gas,
 water and electricity). Controlled prices were adjusted as part o f the preparation for EU accession resulting in
 price increases that reached up to 30 percent for some utilities.


                                                           2

expenditures, reflected an inability to break with the past and initiate structural reforms in key
expenditure areas, including the health sector.

9. Inthis environment, the moderation o f aggregate demand through a tightening o f fiscal policy has
become essential to reduce inflationary and current account pressures. This adjustment will also allow
for a better policy mix, with a more relaxed monetary stance working to contain exchange rate
appreciation. Over the past two years, and despite elections being held in 2002, the government has
begun t o make strong progress inthese areas. Fiscal measures taken in2001 and 2 002 reduced the
consolidated fiscal deficit (ESA 95 basis) from 10.7 percent in2000 to 7.2 percent in 2002.

10. On the structural front, there has been good progress since the late 90s, but challenges remain. The
mainbanks and utilities have been restructured and privatized, fiscal transparency and c ontrol have
improved, and quasi-fiscal activities have been curtailed, while the legislative framework has been
strengthened. Corporate restructuring, labor market reforms, and further strengthening o f banking
supervision have also begun though further work i s needed in each o f these areas. More difficult yet,
are pending reforms in the pension system, health and education sectors. In addition, more remains to
be done instrengtheningthe state administration, and thejudicial system.

11. Medium-term Prospects. Inthe recent Article IV consultation for the Slovak Republic, concluded
by its Executive Board o f the IMF on July 23, 2003,2 the IMFprojects growth and competitiveness to
remain strong, with downside risks from weak external demand and for core inflation. Real GDP
growth i s expected to continue at around 4 percent for the coming three years.            Due to needed
adjustments in utility tariffs, excise tax increases and adjustments to the VAT tax rate, annual (end o f
period) headline inflation i s projected to increase to around 9 percent in 2003, before falling to around
3.6 percent by 2005. However, core inflation i s expected to remain moderate, averaging 3.8 percent in
2003-04 before falling back to 2 percent in2005.

12. Improving the policy mix by continuing to bring the fiscal deficit to more sustainable levels i s an
explicit priority for the Government, especially as it seeks to meet the Maastricht criterion o f 3 percent
o f GDP, a prerequisite for joining the European Monetary Union (EMU), by 2006. This challenge i s to
be met through reforms in the tax system combined with sustained reductions in the share o f public
expenditures in GDP. As mentioned in para. 11 above the latter will require structural reforms in key
areas o f public sector involvement, including the health sector reforms supported by the proposed
operation, so as to prevent further accumulation o f debts while improving the effectiveness o f service
delivery. To this end, the 2003 budget envisages a 2 percent o f GDP reduction in the consolidated
fiscal deficit, to be achieved mainly through expenditure cuts, including in the health sector. Further
reductions in the deficit to around 3.5 percent o f GDP by 2005 will be required to meet the Maastricht
fiscal criterion by 2006, to secure fiscal solvency, and to stabilize public debt well below the Maastricht
debt ceiling.

13. External deficits, while still large, are narrowing. Supported by the noted macroeconomic policy
adjustments and structural reforms, the current account deficit i s projected to decline from 8.2 percent
o f GDP in 2002 to around 6.3 percent o f GDP in 2003 and then to 4 percent in 2005. Over the same
period, the Slovak Republic's gross external debt i s projected to decline from 55.7 percent o f GDP to
38.3 percent o f GDP. A t end-2002, IBRD exposure was a low 0.9 percent o f GDP, with IBRD
representing around 1.4 percent o f the Slovak Republic's total external debt service payments.

 14. The improved macroeconomic setting and the robust outlook will create a positive environment for
this adjustment operation, though challenges remain.            Nonetheless, continuous monitoring o f


  See Annex 7


                                                      3

macroeconomic conditions, in consultation with the IMF, will be important to ensure that an
appropriate macroeconomic framework i s maintained, notwithstanding the fact that there is n o IMF
program in Slovakia at present.

    111.     KEY SECTORISSUES AND GOVERNMENT'S REFORMPROGRAM

A.       Kev Issues inthe Health Sector

15. The Slovak Republic i s facing a major fiscal crisis in the healthcare sector. The main symptoms o f
serious health financing problems are increasing arrears and informal out-of-pocket payments by
patients, which are regressive and create access barriers. Accumulated arrears o f health institutions
(health insurance companies and providers) stood at S K K 30 billion at the end o f 2002 and are
gr~wing.~ cope with increased expenditures, the Government has gradually raised the contribution
           To
rate o f the active population to 14 percent o f payroll tax and has over the years increased its
contribution f o r non-active populationrates to 9.8 percent o f minimum wage. The Government has
repeatedly been forced to clear arrears o f health insurance companies (HICs) as well as publicly owned
health care providers through transfers o f privatizationreceipts from the National Property Fund.These
extra-budgetary contributions have grown rapidly, from almost zero to over 7 percent o f health
spending in 2001. The use o f non-recurring revenues to fund what appear to be recurring expenditures,
combined with the continuing growth o f health system arrears, i s a clear indication o f the weakness o f
health system finances. In addition to only providing temporary relief, repeated Govemment bailouts
have created a moral hazard problem for indebted health organizations. The health care system i s
financially unsustainable, and reforms are urgently needed to make better use o f public expenditures on
healthcare.4

16. This situation occurs against the backdrop o f relatively high overall health financing envelope o f
                                                                                        7.3 percent o f GDP (2601).5 Public
I               Figure 1. HealthSectorRevenues andExpenditurer ("Aof GDP)               spending on health averaged about 5.8

                                                                                - 0     percent o f GDP in the second half o f the

                                                                         - 7 2 -   0 1  1990s - more than 1 percent o f GDP
                                                        64        a 6 4      6 4-  0 2  higher than the average for other Central
                   \                                                            -       Asian      and    European      Countries
                                                                                - -03

                                                                                  -04   (CEECS),~and more than 2.5 percent o f
                                                                                        GDP higher than the average for upper
                                                                                  -06   middle-income countries. Giventhe high
                                                                                  -07   overall budget deficit in the Slovak
                                                                                        Republic, there i s little opportunity to
                                                                                        increase public revenues for the health

       1995   1996      1997       1998     1999     2000        2WI     2WZ            sector. While some o f the reasons for
                                                                                        increased expenditures on health care
                                                                                        are legitimate, such as the increased cost
o f drugs obtained from international markets (the average cost o f drugs i s 75 percent o f EU average),
the increase in expenditures appears to be due to deep structural problems inthe hospital sector and to
weaknesses inthe management o f health expenditures.


 Health Care Policy, Chapter 1, Zajac, Pazitny, draft report.
  Substantial analytical work has been completed on the Slovak health sector including by the Bank. The most
recent Bank reports on the health sector include: (i)                  the health chapter o f the Development Policy Review (DPR)
(2002) and (ii) healthchapter o f the Social Sector Expenditure Review (2001).
               the
 MOH data.
 Data from "Expenditure Policies towards EUAccession." World Bank (Technical Paper, forthcoming).



                                                                             4

17. Five health insurance companies manage mandatory social health insurance expenditures. The
largest, General Health Insurance Company, covers about 70 percent o f population. The companies are
public institutions set up under the 1994 Health Insurance Law and other subsequent regulatory Acts.
There are gaps in financial and managerial accountability regulations, and the insurance companies are
not subjected to independent audits, which allows for misrepresentation o f the true financial p ~ s i t i o n . ~
The insurance companies collect contributions that are currently set at 14 percent o f income for
employees, calculated on the basis o f maximum income o f SKK 32,000 per month, and 3percent o f
average wages o f those for whom the state pays the premium. The HICs retain only a certain portion o f
their collections and would be required to deposit the rest in an equalization pool. The Government
contributes for non-active population, using a formula set annually by the Parliament. For the year
2003, the contribution rate i s 14 percent o f 70 percent o f the minimum wage (or 9.8 percent of the
minimum wage). Contribution compliance rates are reportedly high, disguised by low reported
contribution basis o f self-employed. Compliance with redistribution formula i s lower, resulting in
deficits ininsurance companies that are net recipients under the redistribution formula.

18. Mounting arrears and indebted hospitals are symptoms o f deep structural crises inthe Slovak health
care system, which are present on both demand and supply sides. The Constitution and associated
legislation guarantee a very broadrange o f health services at very little direct cost to patients, who have
few incentives to limit their use of health services.* This has led to a very rapid increase in demand,
with hospital admission rates and per capita outpatient visits rising by about 18 and 20 percent
respectively, between 1990 and 1999. Along with the rising demand, spending has increased as well,
risingby one-third as a percentage o f GDPbetween 1991 and 1999.

 19. The health status o f the people o f the Slovak Republic does not compare too unfavorably with EU
averages overall. Life expectancy inthe Slovak Republic i s 72 years, lower than the EUaverage of 78.1
years. Infant mortality i s 8.6 per 100,000 live births, compared to the EU average o f 5.2 deaths per
 100,000 live births. The incidence o f tuberculosis in the Slovak Republic is 20.4 cases per 100,000,
compared to the EUaverage o f 12.3 per 100,000.9

20. An examination o f the Standardized Death Rates for causes o f death shows that the people o f the
 Slovak Republic have significantly higher incidences o f death due to circulatory system disorders,
cerebrovascular diseases, and ischemic heart diseases, relative to the EU. Standardized death rates in
 Slovak Republic due to disorders o f the circulatory system are 541 per 100,000, more than double the
EU average o f 269.8 per 100,000. Likewise, the death rates in the Slovak Republic attributable to
 cerebrovascular causes and ischemic heart diseases are 86.8 and 275.6 per 100,000 respectively,
 compared to the EU average o f 68.6 and 109.1 per 100,000 respectively. Indications o f how the
 observed mortality may be reducedcan be acquired by comparing the main causes o f death between the
 Slovak Republic and those o f the EU."




  For example, the annual report o f General Health Insurance Funds for 2001 lists significant assets from accounts
 receivables in spite o f the fact that 40 percent o f those were from bankrupt companies. These assets were used to
 balance the liabilities o f the fund to providers and pharmaceutical retailers. Probability o f recovering receivables
 was low, probability o f need to pay out accounts payable was high. Most likely, no independent audit would have
 allowed the accounts to pass without qualifying them.
 * Exceptions include dentistry, which involves significant co-payments, some types o f elective surgery, and a
 relatively small portion (about 6-10 percent) o f drug costs.
  All country data is for the year 1999 while the EUaverage is for the year 1997.
 lo Source: WHO, Health for All Database, 20001. All country data is for the year 1999, while the EU average i s
 for the year 1997.


                                                             5

B.       Health Sector ReformsSupportedbv HSMS SECAL

21. The Government's Health Sector Manifesto, adopted by the Parliament inNovember 2002, seeks to
address problems in the health sector through a broad range o f reforms aimed at improving financing,
delivery, production and management o f health services. The reforms seek to control the growing
indebtedness in the health sector, enhance efficiency in the use o f available financial and human
resources, and make the protection o f individual health a priority, particularly inrespect to highly cost-
intensive health services for the poor and the vulnerable members o f the population. Inorder to enhance
quality o f care, the Govemment Manifesto proposes the establishment o f a Health Care Surveillance
Authority that will oversee provider accreditation and quality assurance. The reforms propose to
continue with the decentralization process already underway, and create legislative conditions for the
increased participation o f regions in the ownership o f health care institutions, thereby granting legal,
administrative and financial autonomy to state-owned health care institutions. The reforms emphasize
the need to improve access to health care, fight corruption in the health sector, and increase
effectiveness o f health expenditures and interventions.

22. The policy agenda for support under HSMS SECAL i s summarized in the attached policy matrix
(Annex 2), which was prepared in consultation with the Ministryo f Health and Ministry of Finance. It
i s reflected more fully in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 3). Annex 2 also outlines the key
monitoring indicators agreed with MOH for evaluating the short and medium term impact o f reforms in
different areas supported by HSMS SECAL, and for assessing the overall reform program outlined in
the Letter o f Sector Policy. Key areas which will be supported by HSMS SECAL are outlined below.

     (i)     Health Care Financing

23. Current Situation. The five HICs in the Slovak Republic that are responsible for financing health
services covered under the state guaranteed basic benefits package, only nominally perform the
insurance functions and do not function as active purchasers o f health care services. Prices for health
services are set by MOH, and the HICs have no control in this regard. Reimbursement rates for
outpatient and hospital inpatient care are defined in terms o f global budgets, which in turn are set
historically. The HICs contract with all providers - i.e., there i s no selective contracting    -and the
existing contracting arrangements between the HICs and health providers are weak, resulting in low
contract compliance. HICs set global ceilings for contracts with health providers, but these ceilings are
continuously challenged by the providers, who demand payments for claims that exceed the contracted
volume, using arguments such as providing emergency care and enforcing entitlements for the insured.
Having been bailed out before, hospitals have not taken any steps to contain service volume and curtail
costs. Therefore, HICs have, in effect, little or no control over both price and volume o f services
provided. The legal and regulatory framework governing the operation o f HICs i s also unclear, and the
HICs operate as quasi-governmental organizations with multiple controls.

24. Reforms Supported by HSMS SECAL. Under the Government's health sector reform strategy,
HICs will be given greater organizational and management autonomy and their institutional capacity
will be developed so they become active purchasers o fhealth services on behalf o fthe insured.The five
HICs will be required to provide the revisedstate-guaranteed basic benefits package to all insured, and
will be allowed t o contract s electively with providers o f health s ervices. The HICs will also collect
premium contributions (currently set at 14percent o f income for employees, calculated on the basis o f
maximum income o f SKK 32,000 per month, and 3percent o f average wage for those for whom the
 state pays the premium).The Government contributes on behalf o f the non-active population, using a
 formula annually set by the Parliament. For the year 2003, the contribution rate i s 14 percent of 70
percent o f minimumwage (or 9.8 percent o f minimumwage). The HICs will be permitted to retain only
 10 percent of their collections and would be requiredto deposit the rest in an equalization pool, which



                                                     6

will then be redistributed among the HICs based on a risk-adjustment formula covering 40 age/gender
sub-groups. The HICs will be allowed to implement new provider payment systems to address cost-
containment, efficiency and quality issues. Financial accountability arrangements will be clarified and
HICs will be subject to mandatory independent audits, financial reporting and solvency requirements.
The MOH will regulate the operation o f the HICs with a view to addressing issues related to market
failures like adverse selection and cream skimming. The MOH will also support institutional and
organizational capacity building, including training for HIC staff, the development o f health
information systems to maintain patient records and the monitoring o f costs and quality o f health
services.

25. Despite the term widely used in the Slovak Republic, the present arrangement o f "prospective
budgeting" i s based on a centralized planning mechanism that estimates the yearly budget based on
historic performance, number o f beds, staff, other input factors and inflation. MOH i s moving toward a
true prospective payment systems and developing case-mix payment methods (such as those based on
Diagnosis Related Groups), in order to create appropriate incentives for consolidation o f services,
increasing efficiency in the utilization o f hospital resources and providing incentives to reduce hospital
over-capacity. The developing prospective payment systems and developing case-mix payments will
ensure that `money follows the patient' and that a one-to-one correspondence i s established between
expenditures and treatment. MOH i s simultaneously proposing to introduce performance-based
compensation for directors and staff o f autonomous hospitals in order to reward effort and improve
overall performance and quality.

     (ii)     Scope of State-GuaranteedHealthCare

26. Current Situation. The Constitution o f the Slovak Republic guarantees free health care for all its
citizens. The Treatment Act lists services that are covered by health insurance, and defines, in effect,
the scope o f covered services. Considering resources available for health care, the current range of
covered services i s very generous in terms o f both the content (range o f benefits offered) and volume
(number o f benefits paid). Virtually all mainstream services provided by health care providers qualify
for health insurance coverage, and it i s difficult to identify excluded services (with the exception o f
such services as cosmetic surgery). There are currently no official cost-sharing arrangements for
patients for the services provided under the current health insurance scheme.     ''

27. Service volumes are high and continue to rise. Providers o f primary health care are paid on a
capitation basis, and have no incentives to restrict referrals to specialists, who are paid on a fee-for-
 service basis. Because o f incentives embedded in reimbursement schemes, hospitals and specialist
outpatient clinics tend to increase volumes, even when the overall contract amount i s capped.12Patients
have little incentive to limit their use o f health services, since there i s no official cost sharing at the
point o f service (although informal payments are common).

28. Reforms Supported by HSMS SECAL. Under the Government's health sector reform strategy, the
 scope o f services covered by health insurance will be defined on the basis o f full coverage o f
 catastrophic care (A category), partial coverage o f other essential care (B category) and no coverage for
non-essential services (C category). The coverage o f core services under categories A and B i s expected
to satisfy the Constitutional guarantee o f health care that all Slovak citizens currently enjoy, and



 11Exceptions include dentistry, which involves s ignificant c o-payments, some types of elective surgery, and a
 relatively small portion (about 6-10 percent) of drug costs.
 12Providers hope to get payments for overprovided services at later term as part of a bail-out package and also
 have inthe past succumbed to prisoner's dilemma when sliding fee schedules were applied.


                                                          7

services omitted from these categories and included in category C will be financed entirely out-of-
pocket.

29. The Government reform strategy also includes a proposal to introduce copayments at the rate of
SKK20 for primary health care and outpatient visits, and SKIS30 per day per hospital day. These co-
payments are expected to modify patient decisions on service utilization, and raise additional (albeit
limited) revenue for health care providers. In fact, in an amendment to the Act on Health Care, passed
on April 9, 2003, the Slovak Parliament has already approved the introduction o f copayments by
patients for hospitals and doctors as well as for medical drugs. MOH estimates that this will increase
formal out-of-pocket payments by patients by SKK30 to 40 per month.

HospitalAutonomy

30. Current Situation. The Slovak Republic has 92 hospitals, including 7 faculty hospitals, 4
specialized hospitals, 75 general hospitals and 6 psychiatric hospitals. The number o f hospitals as well
as hospital beds i s very high by international comparisons ( 7 per 100,000 population in the Slovak
Republic as compared with an EU average o f 5). Hospitals in the Slovak Republic are underutilized,
and most operate at less than 70 percent o f the bed capacity compared to 80 percent and more in most
OECD countries. Average length o f stay in acute hospitals i s 9.6 days, which i s relatively high
compared to other countries o f the region, like Hungary (7.0), Czech Republic (8.7), and Austria (6.8).
The number o f physicians workmg inhospitals i s high, and has increased by 23.7 percent inthe last 10
years. The majority o f hospital expenditures are on staff, which leaves very little for variable costs. In
addition, hospitals have limited resources to buy other variable inputs.From a physical perspective, the
hospital system, i s characterized by old buildings designed for the different needs o f a bygone era.
Typically, these buildings have a great deal o f non-functional or "dead" space (eg. large and empty
corridors) which are expensive to heat and maintain.

31. All hospitals are state-owned and operated, either by M O H or by municipalities in the case o f
decentralized facilities, and the hospital s taff are c ivil s ervants. There are f e w strong administrative
imperatives to manage these facilities effectively and efficiently. None o f the hospitals have been
 closed or liquidated for debts, and no Director has been fired for financial mismanagement. None o f the
hospitals have seen any significant reductionin staffing levels, and none o f them can hire or fire staff or
makes changes in salary levels. Within hospitals, medical professionals predominantly occupy
management positions, though they may have little management training.

           Table 2: Comparing Slovakhospitalswith the corporatemodelof g~vernance'~

 Characteristic Corporate Model                     Slovak public hospitals
 Decisionrights Most          decision     rights, Many key decision rights (including those related to
                   especially    over  key    cost the key cost driver - labor and managing capital) are
                   drivers, held by organization    not held by the hospitals.
 Rightsto          Can    keep    any    financial Hospitals are allowed to keep revenues from co-
 financial         surplus; responsible for debts   payments. They are not responsible for debts. Their
 surplus or                                         assets are the property o f the owner, so hospitals do
 debts                                              not have independent financial identities. An implicit
                                                    government guarantee i s confirmed by the debt build-
                                                    up and payment cycles, which strengthen the signal
                                                    to suppliers that payment arrears will eventually be


 l3Preker A, Harding A. 2002. Innovations in Health Service Delivery: The Corporatization of Public Hospitals.
 The World Bank, Washington DC.


                                                      8

                                                     covered by the government.
Market            Medium to High, patients Market exposure is fairly- high,as patients can choose
                                                                                 -
Exposure          and/or        payers      have     to go to- different hospitals, and the HIF will
                  meaningful     choice   among reimburse payments. Gratuity payments distort the
                  providers                          market.

Social            Valued hospital activities not     Social   functions,   such   as  teaching,   research,
Functions         paid for in service payments       maintenance o f bum units, are not as yet specified
                   are specified and funded by and funding arrangements are not clear.
                  other means (e.g. teaching;
                  research).
Accountability    An      "arms-length"    (from     Soft accountability to MOH that i s not able to
Structure          government) mechanism i s in monitor the performance o f so many hospitals.
                  place to provide oversight.
                  This is     usually a board
                   structure.

32. Institutional and organizational economics indicate that one o f the major reasons for poor technical
and allocative efficiency o f public hospitals i s the lack o f appropriative incentives and accountability
mechanisms. This i s typical o f public sector institutions that face soft-budget constraints and where the
lines o f accountability are blurred. To address these problem many countries, including those in the
E C A Region, have been implementing reforms that create hard budget constraints for hospitals giving
them greater organizational and management authority over the staff, implement competitive
procurement practices as well as rationalize and right-size hospital infrastructure as needed. Evaluation
o f these reforms indicates that their success i s contingent on influencing govemance arrangements,
funding arrangements and the market environment. Unless all three elements are present, hospital
reforms will not produce the desiredresults.

33. Reforms Supported by HSMS SECAL. MOH proposes to rationalize the number o f hospitals and
hospital beds, by consolidating a number o f hospitals and reconfiguring the mix o fhospital beds. Based
on a master plan o f hospitals, which i s under preparation, a network o f `essential' hospitals will be
determined and will be strengthened during the rationalization process. Hospitals and hospital beds
identified as excess capacity in three big cities o f Bratislava, Banska-Bystrica and Kosice will be
included in the first round o f consolidationprocess, followed by hospitals and hospital beds in smaller
cities. Special attention will be paid to maintaining patient access to hospitals, particularly for
vulnerable populations, and those inless-populated areas.

34. The Government's health sector reform strategy proposes to grant administrative and managerial
autonomy to hospitals as well as implement policies that will generate market-like conditions and
encourage hospitals to operate like private entities. Autonomous hospitals will not have an implicit
government guarantee (which they currently enjoy), which will send the important signal to suppliers
that they cannot simply continue to lend to hospitals. This i s expected to create hard budget constraints
for hospitals, and compel them to accord high priority to efficiency. However, autonomous hospitals
will be allowed to retain savings and keep revenues, which may then be re-invested in the hospitals,
thereby generating additional incentives for the hospitals to change the input-mix and align inputsmore
closely with outputs in order to rationalize and implement rationalizationplans. Appropriate changes in
the legal and regulatory framework for hospital governance will support the introduction o f hospital
autonomy.

35. For hospitals that continue to build arrears, there will be the prospect o f bankruptcy and closures or
the possibility o f selected bailouts by the Govemment or commercial banks in exchange for a


                                                      9

 rationalization plan (forced administration). In view o f the substantial excess hospital capacity in the
 Slovak Republic, however, improvements in efficiency due to hospital autonomy are not likely to have
 a negative impact on access to care.

           InternationalExperienceinthe Implementationof HospitalReform KeyLessonsLearned
                                                                                      -

 Hospital reform has been a key area o f health sector reform in the majority o f ECA countries. In most o f these
 countries, these reforms have been implemented with lending and non-lending support from the World Bank. One
 o f the main objectives o f these reforms has been to support rationalization o f the number o f hospitals, hospital
~



 infrastructure and personnel. The overall experience indicates that it i s extremely difficult to close down hospital
 especially tertiary hospitals in capital cities, which are key cost drivers. One o f the key lessons learned is that in
 order f o r hospital reform t o be s uccessful, a full range o f external and internal c onditions that c ould facilitate
 reform need to be inplace. For example, in some countries, although hospitals have been granted autonomy and
 the right to hire and fire health staff, hard budget constraints have not been imposed and accountability
 mechanisms have not been established. Another observation is the key role o f the health care financing system in
 generating appropriate incentives. In countries where public sector resources for health care are limited and out
 pocket payments, especially informal payments, are a major source o f earning for health care providers, it has
 been difficult to successfully implement hospital reforms. In countries where public financing i s a large portion o f
 total health expenditures, organizing health care financing to make health insurance agencies active purchasers
 and implement appropriate provider payment systems and selective contracting can play an important role in
 facilitating hospital reform. In addition, attention needs to be paid to the governance arrangements and ensuring
 that hospital directors are appointed ina transparent manner. Another key lesson is that hospital reform is complex
 and difficult to implement, but this does not mean that countries should shy away from implementing these
 reforms, but rather ensure that external and internal incentives are closely aligned, and continuous monitoring and
 evaluation i s undertaken to allow policy makers to adapt the strategy as needed.

 Source: Jakab M, Preker A, Harding: TheMissingLink?: Hospital Reform in Transition Economies;
 Scott G,McKenzie L and Webster J. Maladjustments in the Corporatization Model: Hospital Reform in New Zealand;
 Corden S.Autonomous Hospital Become a Commercial Network: Hospital rationalization in Victoria, Australia.


 36. Careful planning and sequencing i s needed to successfully implement hospital reforms. The first
 step will be the creation o f an appropriate 1egal and regulatory framework (e.g. through the Health
 Provider's Act). T he MOH i s also planning to set a deadline by which all hospitals inthe Slovak
 Republic should become independent entities. The criteria and processes for hospital closures will be
 clearly specified and communicatedto all health providers. The MOH will establish a technical support
 unit (TSU) to provide technical assistance to hospitals in developing a business plans. Training will
 also be provided for hospital managers and others in charge o f development and implementation o f
 business plans. The MOH will also establish a Hospital Restructuring Fund to support specific capital
 investments in the hospital sector. These developments will take between 2                   -  3 years. During this
 time, it is expected that health insurance companies w illalso be facing a different set of incentives
 which will encourage them to become active purchasers o f health care services as well as institute hard
 budget constraints for providers. The changes inhealth care financing companies are expected to occur
 simultaneously (over 2-3 years) with the changes inhospitals.

 Quality of Health Care

 37. Current Situation. There i s no functioning quality o f care system in the Slovak Republic that
 regularly incorporates evidence-based medicine in the production, delivery and financing o f health care
 services, nor are there any institutionalmechanisms to review quality of care at the health facility level.
 Clinical protocols for major diseases in the Slovak Republic are outdated and non-compatible with
 evidence-based medicine and cost-effectiveness analyses, and there i s also anecdotal evidence that




                                                            10

quality o f care i s generally 10w.l~The existing quality improvement systems are fragmented and are not
integrated across different elements o f the health care system, including Government regulations and
supervision, professional self-regulation, purchasing by health insurance companies, training o f health
professionals and internal management practices o f individual health care. As a result, the existing
quality control institutions do not achieve the objective o f continuous quality improvement.

38. Reforms Supported by HSMS SECAL. The Government reform plans have a particular focus on
quality. The policy on the implementation o f a comprehensive quality improvement program developed
by MOH addresses issues related to quality improvements at all levels (ambulatory, inpatient and long-
term care) o f the health care system, particularly focusing on structural, process and outcome
dimensions o f quality o f care. The main objectives o f the reforms in quality o f care are to set up a
Quality Assurance system and to introduce evidence-based medicine as well as institutional
mechanisms in the Ministryo f Health, health insurance companies, and hospitals for continuous quality
improvement in the health care sector. The MOH proposes to establish a Health Care Surveillance
Authority (HCSA), which will function within a clear-cut regulatory framework. The HCSA will
provide accreditation o f health services, and carry out financial surveillance, reviews o f health services,
licensing o f professionals and institutions, as well as design and development o f standard therapeutic
procedures and clinical guidelines. The establishment o f HCSA, which will take on some o f the
regulatory roles o f the State Health Care Institutes, State Institute for Drug Control, and the Institute o f
Health Information and Statistics, will not represent further growth o f the administration apparatus,
since prospectively it will become an independent entity.

Financing of Social and Long-Term Care

39. Current Situation. Social care services in the Slovak Republic are defined as `subsequent care,'
`special care' and `community care.' Subsequent and special care are covered through health insurance,
while c ommunity care i s financed by the state budget or through direct payments. Subsequent care
follows acute care and includes nursing, rehabilitation, psychological and spa care. Social care
institutions charge fees, and are used by families to obtain fi-ee-of-charge state care for their older and
disabled relatives. Special care includes psychiatric care and care o f those with alcohol and drug
problems. Community care largely consists o f home nursingcare agencies. The number o fprivate home
nursingcare agencies have grown rapidly. Keyproblems withregardsto social care services includethe
lack o f clear definition o f what constitutes social care and the lack o f clear classification o f the types o f
financing and benefits under the various social care categories.

40. The Slovak Republic health care system i s not adequately prepared to deal with issues related to
health care for the elderly. In 1994, there were six institutes with 665 beds for the long-term ill,which
mainly cared for elderly people. In 1997, their numbers had increased to 14 with 1122 beds. The
number o f beds i s still inadequate and there i s a long waiting period for patients to be admitted. Social
care institutions charge fees, and institutes for the long-term illare used by families to obtain fiee-of-
charge state care for their older and disabled relatives. Although there are community care services that
include long-term inpatient care, day care centers and social services for the chronically ill,the elderly
and other groups with special needs such as the mentally ill,mentally handicapped and the physically
handicapped, there i s lack of clarity about roles and functions o f health care and social care
respectively. Acute hospitals currently provide inappropriate and inefficient long term nursingcare and
social care for patients who could potentially be cared for with home support or with lower cost, more
appropriate nursing home care.



l4Well-publicized cases where high level Government officials sought health care abroad after medical errors in
Slovak's health care system.



                                                       11

41. Reforms Supported by HSMS SECAL. The main objective o f the social care reforms supported
under the HSMS SECAL i s to create appropriate financing mechanisms such that these groups will not
be affected as hospitals close wards allocated for long-term inpatient care and for the chronically ill.
The development o f appropriate financing mechanisms i s expected to spur a supply-side response in
terms o f growth o f private social care services, including community-based services. As the hospitals
are exposed to a new set o f incentives, it i s expected that geriatric wards, and wards for the chronically
illwillbecloseddown.This shouldnotmeanthat vulnerable groups suchasthe elderlyandthe
disabled should lack access to needed care. Under the HSMS SECAL, an infrastructure up gradation
plan for long-term care facilities will be developed and implemented. Further, financing mechanisms
for social care will be clarified and incentives will be provided to the private sector to expand social
care.

Improving Management and Regulatory Capacity

42. In order to improve hospital management systems, a comprehensive Health Management
Information Systems (HMIS) will be implemented with resources available under HSMS SECAL. The
design o f HMIS will be financed under the companion HSMS TAP. Further, the HSMS SECAL will
support strengthening o f regulatory capacity o f MOH to oversee the functioning o f the HICs and
HCSA.

C.       SocialImpact of the Reforms and Measures to Mitigate Possible Negative Consequences


43. The Ministry o f Health plans to implement policies that will generate market-like conditions and
encourage hospitals to operate like private entities. Legal changes would allow all hospitals in the
Slovak Republic to operate as autonomous entities. An immediate impact o f hospital autonomy will be
that hospitals would no longer have an implicit government guarantee, which w ould be a signal to
suppliers that they cannot simply continue to lend to hospitals. This will effectively create hard budget
constraints for hospitals, and force them to focus on improving efficiency. The autonomous hospitals
will be allowed to retainrevenues and re-invest inthe hospitals, generating additional incentives for the
hospitals to rationalize and implement rationalizationplans through changes ininputs mix.

44. Since the hospital restructuring program will focus initially on the three big cities o f Bratislava,
Banska-Bystrica and Kosice, where overcapacity i s most acute, the health sector reforms are not likely
to have a negative impact on access to health care services. MOH proposes to rationalize the number o f
hospitals and hospital beds, by consolidating a number o f hospitals and reconfiguring the mix o f
hospital beds. Based on a master plan o f hospitals, which i s under preparation, a network o f `essential'
hospitals will be determined and will be strengthened duringthe rationalizationprocess, which provides
the additional assurance that potential decisions regarding closures will not c ompromise health c are
provision. The `non-essential' hospitals that continue to build arrears, will face the prospect o f
banlauptcy and closures, or the possibility o f selected bailouts by the Government or by commercial
banks in exchange for a rationalization plan. Hospitals and hospital beds outside the network identified
as excess capacity, in three big cities o f Bratislava, Banska-Bystricaand Kosice, will be included in the
first round of consolidationprocess, followed by hospitals and hospitalbeds in smaller cities.

45. The MOH recognizes that rationalization o f hospital services in rural areas will need to be
 conducted with great caution. This i s particularly true for mountainous areas, where travel time to the
nearest facility might be severely extended in case o f a hospital closure. These facilities will be
 included inthe network o f essential hospitals and protected from closure.




                                                       12

46. Closure o f hospitals is also likely to be accompanied by redundancy o f staff, though the exact
nature and extent o f potential labor adjustment will depend on the depth o f the restructuring process.
However, given that hospital networks will be created and a number o f facilities protected from closure,
it is anticipated that during the first phase the rationalization of hospitals and hospital beds will
primarily involve consolidation o f hospital buildings rather than hospital staff. However, this does not
mean that the Government should not have a medium-term plan to deal with the redeployment o f health
professionals. The Ministry o f Health i s working out redeployment strategies for doctors, nurses, and
support staff. To keep distortions, and possible adverse social effects caused by anxiety and insecurity,
to a minimum M O H i s proposing to use such change-management strategies as staff training,
redeployment o f excess staff to consolidated facilities in their region, public information campaigns to
accompany service reorganization, and capacity building to improve financial and public health
management.

47. Roma and other Vulnerable Groups. The health status of the Roma i s widely believed to be worse
compared to the non-Roma. Most Roma experience inadequate nutrition, poor housing conditions and
illhealth.Childnutritionisafrequentproblem,particularlyinpoorersettlements,andthereisevidence
o f stunting among some children. Housing conditions are the worst inthe most isolated and segregated
settlements. Access to utilities and public services i s nonexistent, or limited, in many o f the more
marginalized settlements. The most serious problems include lack o f electricity and water, as well as
lack o f proper sewage drainage and garbage collection. On the health side, the prevalence o f
communicable diseases associated with poor living conditions such as hepatitis, trachoma, tuberculosis
meningitis, and s k m diseases i s particularly highinisolated and segregated settlements.

48. Since the new Government has assumed office, MOH officials have been continuously engaging
major stakeholders in the reform debate. There have been numerous workshops, presentations and open
discussions about the merits and potential pitfalls o f the reform measures. As part o f the social impact
monitoring effort, key stakeholder groups will continue to be consulted regularly throughout the
project's implementation period. In addition, the Government plans to begin to systematically collect
information on equity in health and access to health care that will be analyzed by the planned Health
Policy Unit inthe Ministry of Health, which will also respond appropriately to identifiedproblems.

49. In December 2002, MOH commissioned a baseline survey probing the Slovak citizens' level o f
satisfaction with the existing health system and their attitudes towards the reforms. The survey
provided the Government with an opportunity to gain a picture o f public attitudes toward the planned
health reforms as well as the perception o f the health system's performance and service delivery by
different stakeholders. Efforts are underway to obtain thorough feedback from the population at large
(through baseline surveys) as well as specific target groups (through qualitative research) regarding
their understanding and support o f the reforms as well as the stakeholders' ability to voice their
opinions and concerns regarding the reform.

50. In order to monitor the progress o f implementation o f the reforms and their impact on the quality
and accessibility o f health services for the poorest population groups, generate better awareness o f the
health sector reforms, create a more enabling environment for implementation, and build stakeholder
commitment, the companion HSMS Technical Assistance Project will support a program o f quantitative
and qualitative social impact monitoring methods as well as the development and implementation o f
public information campaigns. The results o f the social impact-monitoring program will serve as a basis
for the development o f a public information campaign in support o f the health reform, which will
include media productions, road shows, publications, seminars, workshops, and training. The first phase
o f the campaign will focus on building support for the legislative process (targeting primarily
Parliament members and journalists), followed by a second phase during which a nation-wide media-
based public education campaign will be launched.



                                                     13

51. Inthe course o f the preparation o f HSMS SECAL, the MOH has agreed to the following actions: (i)
the Government will develop a public information campaign and designate a team to coordinate
governmental efforts in the area o f public information and communication. The campaign will explain
the rationale for the introduction o f health sector reforms and explain the benefits citizens should expect
from the reforms; and (ii)     the Government will initiate an assessment o f social and communication
issues related to the sector reform, carrying out a study on the impact o f health sector reforms on
various segments o f the population. The assessment will review the approaches to communicating the
new system to all sections o f society, analyze the perceptions and attitudes o f the various stakeholders,
and recommendcommunication channels and messages.

D.        ImplementationPlansfor the Reforms

52. Preparation for the health sector reforms has been underway for quite sometime now. Between
December 1999 and June 2002, the MOH utilized a PHRD Grant o f US$ 509,400 to examine several
issues related to strengthening finance, delivery and management o f health services. The areas
investigated include: (i)   clinical performance indicators for health facilities; (ii) o f services and
                                                                                        scope
new provider payment systems; (iii)        types o f indicators to be included in the health management
information system and the basic design o f an HMIS system; (iv) management training and education
o f providers inambulatory and inpatient health facilities; and (v) design o f preliminary National Health
Accounts.

53. Following the adoption by the Parliament o f the Government Manifesto on Health Reforms in
November 2002, the MOH started working on the legislative requirements to provide the essential
underpinnings o f the health sector reforms and lay down specific responsibilities, rules and regulation
required for implementation o f the reform measures. In April 2003, the Parliament passed an
amendment to the Act on Health Care, under which patient copayments have been introduced for a
wide range o f health services. An Act on Health Insurance has been drafted and discussed in various
professional and political forums, and i s expected to be presented to the Parliament in June 2003.
Legislation for hospital autonomy and quality assurance i s under preparation and expected to be
completed inthe very near future.

54. The passage o f the Act on Health Insurance that would clarify the institutional and organizational
status o f the health insurance companies, and the rules and regulations under which the health insurance
companies would operate, are parts o f the overall reforms in health care financing, organization and
management. A central feature o f the health financing reforms relates to changes in methods o f
payment by health insurance companies to hospitals. In order to create appropriate incentives for
consolidation o f services, increasing efficiency in the utilization o f hospital resources and providing
incentives to reduce hospital over-capacity, financing reforms will support the development o f
prospective payment systems based on case-mix payment methods (such as those based on Diagnosis
Related Groups, or DRG), which will ensure "money follows the patient" and that a one-to-one
correspondence i s established between expenditures and treatment. The central idea behind the system
i s that if the object o f purchase o f a particular type o f medical service i s the implementation o f proper
procedures inresponse to a given medical situation and, inconsequence o f that, curing the patient o f the
given medical condition, then the cost o f the proper procedures will in effect be the cost o f treating the
given medical condition. Further, if the proper procedures can be standardized, a direct connection can
be established between the medical parameters o f the patient and the cost o f treating the specific




                                                        14

medical condition. A full mapping o f medical parameters and related costs, therefore, i s expected to
provide a sound basis for purchasing the health services from the providers.''

55. A team o f international and domestic experts will be responsible for the preparation o f case-mix
payment methods, which will also include a calculation o f medical procedure costs as well as coding o f
diseases and medical procedures. The team will collaborate closely with a Ministry o f Health Working
Group formed expressly for this purpose. This group will advise on the sources of data, existing codes
and protocols for codifying medical procedures, cost accounting methods, etc. The Workmg Group will
also provide a review and critique o f the technical and analytic work done by the team. The team will
also collaborate with health insurance companies and work closely with the management and staff o f
the selected hospitals.

56. Hospital Autonomy: International experience shows that successful implementation o f hospital
reform requires changes in the internal environment o f the hospital as well as changes in the external
environment constituting the health system. MOH has started to develop the required legal and
regulatory framework in the form o f a Health Provider Law, which will outline arrangements for
organization, management and financing o f autonomous hospitals, as well as rules for bankruptcies and
hospital foreclosures. The law will also outline the different options available to hospitals as they shift
from being public entities to autonomous, "corporatized" entities. Another area the law i s expected to
cover relate to relationships between autonomous hospitals, health care financing companies and the
Ministry of Health and other regulatory bodies. It will also specify the rights and privileges of
autonomous institutions (e.g. control over personnel policies, right to keep profits generated) as well.
The law will also define the date by which all hospitals in the Slovak Republic are expected to become
autonomous entities, which may be up to 4 years from the date the law i s to come into effect. The
passage o f the Health Provider L a w i s critical to operationalize the hospital reforms in the Slovak
Republic.

57. The Ministry o f Health will develop a Master Plan for the three large cities (Bratislava, Kosice and
Banska-Bystrica), which have the largest number of hospitals and hospitals beds. The purpose o f this
master plan i s to evaluate the medium and long-term needs inthe hospital sector for the three cities and
use this information to develop new population norms and standards. MOH will also initiate a Hospital
RestructuringFund, which will provide fund capital investments for hospitals, based on the adoption o f
a sound business plan. The Hospital Restructuring Fundwill have a Technical Assistance Cell that will
provide short-term technical assistance and training to hospital managers and staff in developing
business plans. Hospitals will make applications to the Hospital Restructuring Fundto cover health care
management training costs for hospital managers and staff. Applications to the Hospital Restructuring
Fund will be reviewed on a competitive basis and will largely be dependent on the submission o f an
adequate business plan. In addition to enabling hospitals to become autonomous entities, reforms in
health care financing will generate financial incentives for hospitals to implement efficiency measures.
Reforms inhealth care financing will occur simultaneously withreforms inthe hospital sector.

58. Quality of Cure Reform: The implementation o f the quality o f care reforms will entail the
establishment o f a Health Care Surveillance Institute within the Ministry of Health and the creation o f
clinical care quality teams in hospitals. The Health Care Surveillance Institute will provide guidance



l5Such systems are used in a number of countries around the world. InUSA, where they originated and are most
commonly used, these systems are known under the name o f Diagnosis-Related Groups. InFrance, a considerably
more modified version is used and i s called PMSI, while in England they are known by the name of Health
Resource Groups. In response to financial problems o f insurance funds, case-mix systems are being initiated in
Hungary and inthe Czech Republic also.




                                                     15

and assist intraining, development and implementationo f evidence-based medicine in Slovak Republic.
A core team at the Institute will be responsible for information-collection, documenting international
best practices, establishing protocols, training and monitoring. It will also organize workshops and
information dissemination sessions to adapt and apply international medical research and cost-
effectiveness research to the Slovak context. A specialized branch within the Health Care Surveillance
Institute will be responsible for operationalizing these guidelines and for providing information to
health insurance companies, providers and groups within the MOH responsible for updating the state
guaranteed benefits package and amendments to the treatment act.

59. The M O H estimates that effective implementation o f the reforms will cost around US$ 96 million
over the next four years. Table 3 presents the indicative cost estimates by activity. Of the total,
US$12.38 million equivalent of these costs will be financed from a proposed technical assistance loan
for a Health Sector Modernization Support Technical Assistance Project. The remaining costs will be
financed from the Government budget. The proposed adjustment loan will provide US69.92 M
equivalent o f budget financing support through the period o f reform implementation, in view o f these
incremental fiscal costs.

                               Table3: EstimatedCostsof the Reforms

                                                                   I          Year (US$ million)         I
Activity                                                           120031 20041 20051 20061TOTALl




60. The Government has already made a provision in the 2003 budget (CY2003) o f an amount o f
US$10 million as an additionality over and above the usual health budget to support the health sector
reforms. Secure and stable finance for subsequent years has also been estimated and agreed to with
MOF. As per the agreement with MOF, MOH will receive up to US$15 million in the period 2003-
2006 as an additionality over and above its usual annual budget to take care of all technical assistance
and capacity buildingactivities. The remaining costs o f reform implementation (US$8 1million) will be
met by M O H from their own budget (budgetary sources and flow o f funds over the next four years have
been identified). Both M O F and MOH see significant value-added-belief through use o f budget
financing support from the Bank, as this imposes a set o f policy conditionalities that the Government
believes are necessary and critical for effective implementation o f the reforms.

61. Implementation Capacity: The Slovak Republic i s undertaking major, complex reform of the
health care system, that will change the basic paradigm within which health care financing, delivery and
regulatory institutions are required to operate. International experience in the implementation o f health



                                                    16

sector reforms shows that adequate technical capacity o f the MOH and other key institutions
responsible for regulatory functions, health insurance companies and health providers i s critical for the
successful implementation o f a health sector reform program. As discussed earlier, reforms outlined in
the Government's Manifesto would be supported by a companion Technical Assistance Project (HSMS
TAP), which will focus onthe development o ftechnical capacity withinthe Slovak Republic, especially
within institutions such as the MOH, health insurance companies, hospitals and units created to
implement the complex health reforms supported by HSMS SECAL. Without the development o f this
technical capacity, implementation o f the health sector reforms are not likely to be successful.

    IV.       HEALTH SECTORMODERNISATIONSUPPORT SECTORAL
              ADJUSTMENT LOAN(HSMS SECAL)

62. Objectives: As stated earlier, the overall goal of the HSMS SECAL is to support comprehensive
health sector reforms that promote fiscal sustainability while continuing to provide quality health care
services and financial protection for the population. The overarching objectives are to: (i)       improve
fiscal discipline through structural changes inthe health sector that will alleviate the chronic problem o f
arrears in the health sector, encourage greater technical and allocative efficiency as well as institute a
system that will promote fiscal sustainability; (ii)     improve the quality and cost-effectiveness o f the
health sector; and (iii)   mitigate any possible negative impacts on health care access, specially for
vulnerable populations.

63. Policy agenda and rationale: The policy agenda under HSMS SECAL i s summarized in the
attached Policy Matrix (Annex 2). The Policy Matrix was jointly developed with the Ministry o f Health
and has been discussedwith the Ministry o f Finance.

64. The health reforms supported by HSMS SECAL are similar to those that have been implementedin
many OECD countries and the transition economies. The reforms focus on supporting greater autonomy
for purchasers and providers, introducing incentives that encourage greater technical and allocative
efficiency, and concentrating the role o f the state in financing a package o f benefits for the entire
population, including regulation, policy-making and planning. The focus areas o f HSMS SECAL
reform agenda are:

              Creating hard budget constraints for health care providers to support incentives for
              technical efficiency at the level o fhealth facilities;
              Giving health care facilities (particularly hospitals) organizational and management
              autonomy to implement needed changes to improve efficiency;
              Creating incentives for purchasers (health insurance companies) to become more efficient
              by granting them greater organizational and management autonomy (e.g., to set prices,
              implement selective contracting with health providers and implement changes in the
              provider payment systems);
              Establishing an appropriate regulatory framework to ensure social functions o f the Slovak
              health system are maintained (financing for social care, regulation o f health insurance
              companies,     quality o f care accreditation and licensing, providing information to
              consumers) ;
              Rationalizing the benefits under compulsory health insurance to create a better match with
              available public resources for health care, and putting in place mechanisms to curb
              unsustainable growth inthe future.

 65. Relation to Country Assistance Strategy: The proposal for a sector adjustment loan to the health
 sector i s consistent with the analysis o f overall public expenditure management (PEM) sectoral reforms



                                                       17

as carried out under the Development Policy Review (2002) and the Social Sector Expenditure Review
(2001) for the Slovak Republic. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) o f 2001 identifies the social
sectors as one o f the major areas inwhich the Bank should continue to be involved inthe coming years.
The CAS identifies three areas for Bank support to the Slovak Republic: (i)completing the
transformation reforms to restore and sustain high growth rates and stability; (ii)strengthening
governance and institutions, to promote, inter alia, convergence with the European Union's Acquis
Communitaires and European practice; and (iii)improving social security, enhancing human
development and meeting environmental standards. The Health Sector Modernization Support Loan
would contribute to achieving all three objectives, supporting fiscal stabilization in the health sector,
strengthening governance in health sector institutions, and bringing access and regulatory standards, in
the health sector, in line with European practice. With EU accession now imminent, the outlook for
Slovakia has changed in important ways since the CAS was prepared in overall context as well as in
specific risks. Total adjustment lending has been considerably less than envisaged in the CAS, during
which period only US$177 million in adjustment lending has been committed compared to an approved
base case total o f US$300 million. The proposed SECAL would bring the total to some US$227
million, still well within the base case scenario.

66. Rationale for Bank Involvement: The rationale for the HSMS SECAL at this point in the Slovak
Republic's transition rests on the observations that: (i) the health sector i s a major contributor to the
fiscal problem facing the country and within the context o f EU accession, there i s strong interest and
commitment in the Government to reforming the health sector; (ii)        the health sector i s facing a real
crisis and investments are not reaping the desired outcomes; (iii)   implementation o f health reforms so
far have been piecemeal; (iv) the present government has developed a comprehensive reform program
and i s intent on implementing the reform package, thereby providing a political window o f opportunity
for Bank support; and (v) the approach that the Slovak Republic has adopted to improve efficiency and
effectiveness in the health sector requires important policy and legal changes complemented with
selective investments in building capacity o f managers to operate under the new system, developing
management information systems, and improving the quality o f care. The rationale for adjustment
lending i s to support the incremental up-front fiscal costs o f reform (such as capital investment and
labor redeployment), and channel this support through normal public finances, alongside policy
conditionalities to lock in the key policy, regulatory and resource allocation decisions over the multi-
year framework required for effective reform. A complementary technical assistance loan will provide
the necessary technical and financial instruments and institutional development to further this process.
Over the medium term, the investments will achieve a return in efficiency gains as hospital
consolidation, and sector rationalization i s implemented.

67. Tranching and Disbursements: This fast-disbursing policy-based loan would be made directly to
the Slovak Republic represented by its Ministry o f Finance, to be deposited in the Central Bank. The
loan will be released in three tranches. The first tranche o f US$17.7 million equivalent will be released
in2003 following effectiveness. The second tranche of US$17.7 million equivalent will be released on
fulfillment o f the specific second tranche release conditions. The third tranche o f US$27.18 million
equivalent will be released after the release o f the second tranche, and on fulfillment o f the specific
thirdtranche release conditions. The closing date o fthe loan shallbe December 31,2006.

68. Monitorable Actions and Tranche Release Conditions: Tranche release will be dependent on (i)         an
acceptable macro framework inplace; (ii)     the implementation o f the overall reformprogram as outlined
in the HSMS SECAL Policy Matrix (Annex 2) and the Letter o f Sector Policy (Annex 3), and (iii)
fulfillment o f the specific core conditionalities. Achieving the HSMS SECAL objectives and
implementing the Government program presented above will require secure and stable finance; an
efficient and effective institution to implement the program; and a consistent way o f setting priorities to
ensure that the overall program produces maximum value for money.



                                                     18

69. BeneJits: Implementation o f the reforms supported by HSMS SECAL would contribute
significantly to expenditure control in the short term and reduction in the medium term. The granting of
autonomy to hospitals, especially tertiary hospitals in Bratislava, would have the immediate impact o f
removing government guarantees to hospitals with concomitant implications for setting a hard budget
constraint for hospitals and reducing the build-upo f unsustainable debts to suppliers. There will be
improvements in allocative and technical efJiciency in the health sector as health insurance companies
and health providers make necessary changes in response to incentives generated through the health
reforms. There will be greater transparency inpublic resource management and planning as well.

70. Risks: In relation to the macroeconomic context in which the operation i s expected to take place,
there are additional challenges that the absence o f an IMF program in Slovakia poses to an adjustment
lending operation. This issue had been explicitly discussed between the Bank and the IMF, and it has
been agreed that continuous monitoring o f macroeconomic conditions, in consultation with the IMF, i s
imperative to ensuringthat an appropriate macroeconomic framework i s maintained. Inrelation to the
sectoral context o f the operation, there i s no doubt that the health sector reforms are comprehensive and
very complex, and there are substantial political and technical risks associated with the design and
implementation o f these reforms. The issues facing the country's health system are complex and will
take time to resolve. Even though the Government has a clear vision regarding the direction o f health
care reform, it i s well recognized that the strategy for addressing structural problems in financing and
delivery o f health services, i.e., weak expenditure management by health insurance companies and
hospitals and excess hospital capacity, i s risky. It i s imperative that the key pieces o f legislation are
passed so that the reforms and their implementation have the appropriate legal support. Even so, the
reforms are likely to have adverse outcomes. The reforms will significantly increase market exposure
for health insurance companies and health care providers. The reforms could lead to the bankruptcy o f
companies and providers, which could result in the disruption o f services, leading to lay-offs, access
problems for vulnerable population, loss o f public trust and public outcry. Nevertheless, in the current
context o f already-high expenditures for health care, there i s little realistic opportunity to mobilize
significant additional resources to balance expenditures and revenues. It i s also likely that increasing
drugcosts and pressures to increase salaries will continue to exacerbate health care costs. It would also
be challenging to sell the reforms to key stakeholders (like doctors and patients). In addition, the
expected expansion o f social groups obliged to make co-payments will be unpopular, though it i s hoped
that the current low level o f fees will somewhat mitigate this risk.

71. For the government strategy to succeed, significant risk mitigation measures need to be in place.
These include: (i)  careful sequencing and phasing o f the reforms; (ii) that provide clear regulations
                                                                           laws
to prevent adverse outcomes o f reforms, including prudent financial supervision, government step-in
rights, prevention o f cream-skimming and risk selection, regulatedprivate charges, etc. (iii)  regulations
and incentive structures that are technically well designed; (iv) constant monitoring to ensure access to
health services for the poor and the vulnerable; (v) adequate provision o f financial support to hospitals
through their restructuring efforts, before the market environment leads to their collapse; (vi) capacity
building for key health sector staff to operate under new conditions; and (vii) building greater
stakeholder commitment and ownership o f the reforms. Table 4 highlights the main political and
technical risks and associatedrisk mitigation measures, some o f which are already inplace while others
are inthe process o f implementation.




                                                       19

                             Table 4: Risks and RiskMitigation Measures


`Macroeconomic:The macroeconomic                 Continuous monitoring o f macroeconomic conditions, in
framework deteriorates, and inthe absence o f    consultationwith the IMF.IMF confirmation that
an IMFprogram, additionalburdens or              macroeconomic conditions are satisfactory will be sought
monitoring and dealing with associated           before each tranche i s released.
macroeconomic risk are placed upon this
Dperation.                                       EUmonitoring mechanisms for compliance with
                                                 requirements for EMUwill complement monitoringby
                                                 the IFIS; EMUthese requirements will provide an
                                                 incentive framework for ensuringmaintenance o f
                                                                                   -
                                                 appropriate macroeconomic policy settings.
Political: Government commitment to              The context o f EUaccession creates incentives for
restructuring andrationalization (reflected in   successive Governments to address and sustain strategies
the Letter o f Sector Policy and agreed policy   for fiscal consolidation and performance improvement in
matrix) will not be continued, and political     the health sector, and for transparent, internationally
support for transparency o f information and     comparable reporting o f fiscal information and health
reporting on health sector performance and       sector data.
resource allocation will not be maintained

Key stakeholders inthe three major cities do     MOH i s carrying out extensive discussions andpolitical
not see the incentives indeveloping              lobbying for support inthe three big cities. The Ministry
optimization plans                               o f Finance i s providing close oversight.

Local concerns about restructuringundermine      A comprehensive public information campaign aimed at
political commitment to reform.                  educating stakeholders and others about the reform
                                                 measures will support implementation.
Technical:Expendituremanagement i s not          All hospitals will berequiredto develop strategic
adequate to maintain and operate health          business plans clearly outlining steps proposed for
facilities, and enable them to respondto new     revenue and expenditure management. Hospitals will be
financial incentives                             assisted inpreparationo f these plans, and will be
                                                 supported through initial years to assure effectiveness.

Public healthrevenue i s not stable              The Government i s committedto allocating funds to
                                                 cover health insurance premiums on behalf o f those
                                                 supported by the state, and this year's budget has the
                                                 required allocation; budget for future years will be
                                                 monitored by MOF and Bank team.



72. Fiduciary and accountability environment: The public sector investment and other expenditure
required for health reform supported by the HSMS SECAL will predominantly be financed through
mainstream public finance mechanisms (with the exception o f reform expenditures financed by the
related HSMS Technical Assistance Project, which will be subject to the standard fiduciary
requirements for all Bank investment operations.) It i s therefore important to provide fiduciary
assurance that public expenditure on health reform will be managed in line with the international
procurement principles o f transparency, efficiency and competition. The May 2001 CPAR establishes
that the first Public Procurement Act (PPA) was adopted in 1994. Several amendments have been
passed, the latest one in September 1999, with a view mainly to fulfilling the requirements o f the
Slovak Republic's candidacy for the European Union. The 1999 PPA is an improvement upon the


                                                  20

previous PPAs in many respects (including the creation o f an independent procurement office, more
detailed and clear procurement procedures, accreditation o f procurement professionals, introduction of
the Public Procurement Bulletin and expanded bid protest resolution procedures), though some o f the
methods still lack transparency and may not result in efficient and competitive procurement. In
accordance with Bank practices, a procurement capacity assessment o f the Ministry o f Health and the
PCUestablishedthere was carriedout inMarch2003, andno significant procurement issues or risks are
anticipated.

73. The Government has begun an ambitious program o f public finance reforms, consisting o f
abolishing extra-budgetary funds, adopting new audit legislation, the introduction o f a medium-term
fiscal outlook, a major overhaul o f budgetary 1egislation, e laborating and implementing ESA95 and
GFS2001 methodologies for reporting on public finance, improving control o f the deficits o f local
Governments and public funds, initiating fiscal decentralization, adopting a pilot scheme for program
budgeting, and creating a legal framework for a State Treasury and a Debt and Liquidity Management
Agency (DLMA).Many o f these reforms are now reflected inthe Slovak Republic's legislation and are
being operationalized with the support o f the donor c ommunity and specifically through the Public
Finance Management Project, which was approved by the Bank's Board on June 10, 2003. The ability
o f the N B S to properly maintain a Deposit Account i s reflected in the unqualified (clean) opinion
received from the auditor o f the EFSAL Deposit Account inJuly 2002.

74. Disbursement: The first tranche would be released upon approval o f the Loan and notification by
the Bank o f Loan Agreement Effectiveness. The Ministry o f Finance will open and maintain a special
Deposit Account in the National Bank o f Slovakia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Upon notification by the Bank o f Loan Effectiveness and submission to the Bank o f a withdrawal
application, the proceeds o f the first tranche o f the Loan will be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit
Account o f the MOF. Uponreceipt o f the Loan funds into the Deposit Account, the N B S will debit that
account and credit an equivalent amount o f Slovak Koruna to the single treasury account o f the MOF,
held at the NBS.

75. If, after deposit inthe Deposit Account, the proceeds o f the Loan are used for ineligible purposes
(for example, to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services on I B R D ' s
standard negative list), IBRD will require the borrower to either: (i) that amount to the account
                                                                         return
for use for eligible purposes; or (ii)  refund the amount directly to the IBRD, in which case the IBRD
will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount o f the Loan. Disbursements will be made based on the
Application for Withdrawals submitted to the Bank by the Ministry o f Finance. If the proceeds o f the
Loan are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance items imported from non-member
countries, or goods or services on I B R D ' s standard negative list), IBRD will require the borrower to
either: (i)return that amount t o the account for use for eligible purposes; o r (ii)   refund the amount
directly t o the IBRD,in which case the IBRDwill c ancel a n equivalent undisbursed amount o f the
Loan.

76. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing. The N B S will maintain records o f all transactions under the
Loan in accordance with sound accounting practices. Every six months, the N B S will prepare a report
showing all payments into and from the Deposit Account and the M O F will have the report audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with terms o f reference acceptable to the
Bank.

77. Environmental Impact: The HSMS SECAL i s not expected to result in any negative impact on the
environment. For the purpose o f Operational Directives 4.01, it has been placed in Category C, which
does not require an environmental assessment. The ISDS has been reviewed and cleared by ECSSD
environment staff.



                                                       21

78. Social Safeguards: Given the nature o f the lending instrument, the project does not trigger any
social safeguards. However, it i s likely that the implementation o f the health sector reform agenda will
generate some social issues (for example, following the introduction o f patient copayments for health
services and changes in scope o f covered services) and result in possible redundancies in the health
sector. In this regard the Government i s talung necessary steps to protect the vulnerable and the poor
who may be unable to make even the nominal copayments that have been introduced. In addition, the
social impact o f the reform will be monitored at regular intervals throughout the reform process, and
public consultations and briefings among the concerned stakeholders will be carried out.

79. Past and Current Bank Operations: There are two ongoing Bank operations in the Slovak
Republic. The Social Benefits Administration Project (P038090) (SIL) was approved in 2002. The
objective o f t his project is t o s upport the Government's plans for pension reformby improving the
policy framework and management o f its social protection system. This project has become effective
recently. The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan was approved in July 2001. The
objective o f this loan i s to support the Government o f Slovak Republic's comprehensive program o f
bank and enterprise reforms. The Government has met the conditionalities under the first tranche and i s
expected t o meet s econd and third tranche conditions shortly. Inaddition, a Bank 1oan for a Public
Finance Management Project was approved in June 2003; preparation activities are being completed
with a PPF Advance and implementation i s expected to get underway shortly. The objective o f this
project i s to strengthen Slovakia's institutional capacity to use public resources more effectively,
efficiently and transparently, inline with Government priorities.

80. Collaboration with IMF and o ther Donors: K e y issues related t o support for the health sector
reforms have been discussed with the IMF and are consistent with the IMF's evaluation o f the critical
fiscal and public expenditure issues facing the Slovak Republic.

8 1. Performance Indicators: The project will be supported by regular social impact monitoring system
and feedback gathering mechanism from key stakeholders, including the poorest and marginalized
groups (as potential patients) as well as health sector employees likely to be affected by the
restructuring process. The social impact monitoring conducted throughout the entire project
implementation period will provide feedback regarding the general public's as well as the respective
stakeholders' impact assessment o f the reform. A series o f regular quantitative and qualitative research
instruments will enable the MOH to collect, on a regular basis, information related to the level o f public
satisfaction with health services and accessibility o f various social groups to health care.

82. It i s also important to have a good measure o f debts inthe health sector, as one o f the objectives of
the reforms i s to alleviate the chronic problem o f debts. The stock o f debt o f the health sector i s
currently about S K K 30 billion (or about 2.5 percent o f GDP), and debts continue to accumulate both in
HICs and in hospitals at a monthly rate o f around S K K 500 million. The Government has appropriated
S K K 3.4 billion in the 2003 budget for the repayment o f debts in the health sector. This i s going to be
used in full to bail those hospitals that are in the process o f decentralization (a process now said to be
momentarily stopped).16 The remaining hospitals and the HICs, which accumulate the majority o f the
sector's debt, will only be bailed out o f existingdebts inthe 2004 and 2005 budgets.

83. Measurement o f debts poses many problems. To begin with, debts, or the lack o f them, may not be
the best indicator to follow if the financial performance o f hospitals and HICs is to be monitored.
Whether a debt i s due or overdue may not be the most important aspect since this status could be easily
changed by the willingness o f the creditor to roll over the debt. By doing this the creditor would move


16The law on decentralization has been passed but no protocol has been signed with the lower govemment units
that would assume over the 59 health care providers.


                                                     22

its creditor rights from `overdue' to `due.' In fact, two financially identical institutions could look
different if one takes over an investment project, and assumes the correspondent debt resulting from its
credit financing, while the other doesn't. Therefore the concept o f unsustainable debt, expressed in the
policy matrix as the ratio o f total debt to revenues, would need to be adjusted for investment carried out
over the monitoring period. Furthermore, if financial institutions are not all cleared out o f existing
debts17as currently planned, the monitoring of health institutions will have to be based on incremental
debt (or adjusted-for-investment-incremental-debt) over a period, and not total stock o f debt.'' For this,
a clear understanding o f the initial status o f the hospitals and HICs financial liabilities would be needed
at the time o f the start o f HSMS SECAL.

84. Initial information on the balance sheets o f hospitals would provide the starting point. A
clarification o f reciprocal claims between creditors and debtors would be desirable to avoid any
discrepancy between creditors and debtors' rights.lgHaving done this, a monitoring system could be set
up to follow the adjusted incremental debt based on the statement of revenues and expenditures. This
information i s already regularly collected by the MOH, and this will be followed up with randomly
selectedcreditors for corroboration o f the accuracy o f the information.

85. Other performance indicators that need to be in place to permit monitoring and performance
assessment and measurement include: (i)          development and passage o f enabling legislation; (ii) o fratio
general budget deficit to GDP and a measure that would allow for the calculation o f the contribution o f
the health sector to the deficit; (iii)    drugs prescription patterns; (iv) clinical guidelines for primary and
secondary health services; (v) measure o f ambulatory surgeries; (vi) number o f hospitals granted
autonomy; (vii) bed occupancy rates in hospitals; (viii) baseline data on allocative and technical
efficiency indicators; (ix) baseline data on allocation o f health expenditures for preventive and primary
health care; (x) baseline data on allocation o f health expenditures for secondary and tertiary health care;
(xi) administrative costs o f health insurance companies; and (xii) number o f functioning hospitals and
hospital beds. Most o f this information i s already collected and reported by the MOH in a routine
manner; remaining informational gaps would needto be addressed.




l7As per Government's plans, only the 59 hospitals inthe process of decentralizationare going to be fully bailed
out of existing debts as of end-2002. For these - and only for these - debts, there are budgetaryallocations inthe
2003 budget (equivalent to S K K 3.4 billions). Plans to clean up the remaining health providers - the biggest
public sector hospitals not inthe process of decentralization - andthe HICs will haveto wait for future budgets.
'*Even   this concept could be further refined, as an institution not cleared o f its debt burden would also have to
carry the burden of the interest paymentson that debt, whereas an institution free of debt would not.
  The MOH i s currently involved in carrying out a reconciliation of claims and obligations within the framework
of the bailout o f the debts o f the 59 healthproviders currently inthe process of decentralization.


                                                           23

                                 Annex 1:Time Table andTask Team

  T i m e Table for K e v Steps inL o a n Processing

  Time for Preparation
  Identification Mission                            December 2002
~
  Pre-Appraisa1Mission                              January 2003
  Appraisal Mission                                 May 2003
  Negotiations                                      July 2003
  Board Presentation                                 SeDtember 2003



  Task T e a m

              e
 Mukesh Chawla, ECSHD                           Team Leader
 MarzenaKulis, ECSHD                            HumanDevelopment Operations Officer
 Jan Bultman, ECSHD                             LeadHealth Specialist
 Toomas Palu, ECSHD                             Senior Health Specialist
 Dominic Haazen, ECSHD                          Senior Health Specialist
 Virginia Jackson, ECSHD                        Senior Operations Officer
 Jan Pakulski, ECSSD                            Senior Social Development and Civil Society
                                                Specialist
 Marcel0 Bisogno, ECSPE                         Country Economist
 Sarbani Chakraborty, ECSHD                     Health Specialist
 Maria Vannari, ECSPS                           Senior Procurement Specialist
 Michael Gascoyne, ECSPS                        FinancialManagement Specialist
 Claudia Pardinas Ocana, LEGEC                  Senior Counsel
 Hans Jurgen Gruss, LEGEC                       Chief Counsel
 Rohit Mehta, LOAGl                             Senior Finance Officer
 Petra Vehovska, ECCU7                          Operations Analyst (Bratislava)
 Nadejda Mochinova, ECSHD                       Program Assistant
 Imelda Mueller, ECSHD                          Program Assistant
 Peer Reviewers:
 Maureen Lewis                                  Chief Economist, HDNVP
 Jean-Jacques Dethier                           Lead Economist, DECRG




                                                      24

                             A n n e x 2: Policy Matrix f o r H S M S S E C A L
                                      (Core conditionalities in bold)

Area and                                                                          Third Tranche
Objective           (Euro 15 million,             (Euro 15 million,               (Euro 25 million,
                                                                                  equivalent to US$27.18
                                                                                  million)
Macroeconomic Maintain adequate macroeconomic framework

Undertake           A new Health                  The contribution of the         The contribution of the
systemic reform     InsuranceAct                  health system to general        health care system to
of health care      developed and                 budget deficit i s reduced      general budget deficit i s
financing to curb   submitted to the              to 1.0percent of GDP            reduced to 0.75percent of
the immediate       Cabinet."                     compared with baseline.         GDP compared with
problem of                                                                        baseline.
growing arrears     A new Health Care             Mechanisms and
and ensuring        Surveillance                  institutional                   Number of hospitals
long-term           Authority Act                 arrangements developed          incurring debts i s reduced
financial           developed and                 for the inclusion o f new
sustainability.                                                                   by 50percent, compared
                    submitted to the              treatment procedures            to 2002.
                    Cabinet.                       and pharmaceuticals
                                                   into the essential
                    A new Treatment Act            package of health
                    developed and                  services?'
                    submitted to the
                    Cabinet.                       Selective purchasing
                                                   and contract monitoring

                    Plans for the                  capacity developed in
                                                   Health Insurance
                    introduction of                Companies.
                    financial discipline,
                    stringency and hard-           Needs assessment of
                    budget constraints in Health Management
                    hospital financing             Information Systems
                    developed.                     completed.

                                                   Numberof hospitals
                                                   incurring debts" i s
                                                   reduced by 25percent,
                                                   comDared to 2002.
                    Detailed Terms o f             Imp1ement changes,             Minimumfour clinical
and patient-        References (TORS)and           acceptable to the Bank, in guidelines for PHC and
                    ImplementationPlan             the physician and nurse         eight guidelines for



2o The new Health Insurance Act should, at the minimum, address the following issues:        (i) Government
                                                                                                clarify
contributionrates, (ii)describe h o w the health insurance c ompanies would be a dministered; ( iii)describe the
regulations governing the health insurance companies; and (iv) clarify the process of selective contracting.
  The decision whether a new treatment or drug is included or excluded in the package o f health services should
be basedon evidence.
22Borrowing incurred inthe course o f business constitutes a debt only ifit remains unpaid after maturity.


                                                        25

quality o f health     ireparedfor                   icensing system in               secondary care adopted,
care.                  mplementationof               *elationto the system of         tested and implemented.
                       ;ontinuous quality            zontinuing Medical
                       mprovement.                   Education (CME).

                                                     The implementation o f
                                                     national quality
                                                     improvement plan
                                                     xceptable to the Bank i s
                                                     initiated.23

                                                     A new institutionfor
                                                     quality assurance,
                                                     licensing and
                                                     accreditation (HCSA) is
                                                     operational, and
                                                     implementingits
                                                     businessplan.
Implement              A new Act on Status           An implementationplan Approved
reforms of the         o f Health Care               for rationalizing                implementationplan for
health delivery        Providers developed           hospitalcapacity, inthe          rationalizinghospital
system.                and submittedto the           districts of Bratislava,         capacity inBratislava,
                       Cabinet?4                     Kosice and Banska                Kosice and Banska
                                                     Bystrica developed on            Bystrica has been
                       Eligibility criteria for      the basis of a mapping           implemented.
                       drawing uponthe               exercise.
                       resourcesof Health                                             25percent o f all surgery is
                       Restructuring Fund"           75percent of hospitals in treated on a one-day
                       developed.                    the districts of                  surgery basis, average
                                                     Bratislava, Banska               Length of Stay (ALOS) is
                                                     Bystrica, and Kosice,             down by lopercent and
                                                     operating as                      occupancy rate is up by
                                                     autonomous entities               20percent in acute care
                                                     with self-governing               hospitals implementing
                                                     boards.                           reforms, compared to
                                                                                       2002.

                                                                                       Hospitalinformation
                                                                                       systems developed and
                                                                                       functioning in50percent
                                                                                       o f hospitals.



23 The quality improvement plan should specify the roles and responsibilities o f HCSA, as well as provide
guidance for professionals and other related institutions on their role inquality improvement.
24The legislation should establish the legal framework for hospital autonomy, and (i)      identify hospital governance
structures; (iii)stipulate the rights o f the government to intervene; (iv) establish clear accountability mechanisms;
(v) establish financial supervision arrangements; (vi) set target date for completion.
25 In order to be eligible to draw resources from the Hospital Restructuring Fund, hospitals would need to be (i)
autonomous, (ii) developed strategic business plans highlighting proposals and measures to ensure financial
                   have
discipline and control, and (iii) maintain zero cash losses and demonstrate adherence to a balanced budget for at
least 6 months.


                                                           26

[mplement                                          Concept and
-eforms inthe                                      implementation planfor
financing o f                                      social and long-term
social care.                                       care is develoDed.
Strengthen          A Health Policy Unit            4pproved public                 An evaluation of the first
stewardship         responsible for                 informationcampaign             two years of the reforms,
function            collecting data,                under implementation.           with special emphasis on
[regulation,        monitoring and                                                  patient access, equity and
policy-making       evaluating health                                               quality of care, completed
mdplanning) o f     reforms i s established                                         and compared with the
MOHand other        within the MOH.                                                 baseline for analysis of
relevant                                                                            improvements (or
institutions.       A needs assessment for                                          otherwise) onthese
                    a public information                                            aspects.
                    campaign for health
                    sector reforms
                    completed and a public
                    information campaign
                    formulated.

                    A detailed
                    actionhmplementation
                    plan outlining
                    sequential steps inthe
                    reformprogram for
                    the first year
                    formulated.

                      Data needs for
                      measuringhealth
                      system performance
                      identified.

                      Baseline dataz6for
                      monitoring and
                      evaluation of health
                      reforms collected.




 26Baseline data should include indicators o f allocative and technical efficiency, equity and access, and quality of
 care.


                                                         27

                                   Annex 3: Letter of Sector Policy


                      MINISTRY OF HEALTHOF THE SLOVAKREPUBLIC
                                     OFFICE OF THE MINISTER

                                                April 7, 2003

                  SUBJECT:HealthCare SystemModernizationProject

Dear Mr.Grawe,

         It is my pleasure to present to you the main features o f the Government of the Slovak
Republic's Health Care System ModernizationProject through this Letter o f Sector Policy.

         Targeted to address all aspects o f the health sector - including quality, technical efficiency and
management -the Health Care System ModernizationProject represents a significant step inthe Slovak
Republic's ongoing efforts to improve the health outcomes inthe country.

         As detailed inthe November 2002 Government's Manifesto, the following objectives and tools
for the health sector have been defined. The government:

     targets at establishing stable conditions for health sector activities, at stopping the growth o f
   indebtedness and at providing for a balanced management throughout the health sector.

     declares the intention to increase the ability o f the system o f health care provision to act in
   correspondence to the needs o f the population while accounting for the real availability o f funds.

     will undertake steps to improve efficient accessibility and flexibility o f healthcare.

     will orient the reforms inthe health sector towards a more efficient utilisationof resources.

     recognizes that a highmeasure o f corruption i s part o f the problems existing inthe health sector as
   well as the reasons for the dissatisfaction o f the population.

     shall develop legislative solutions to the basic health-related laws.

     shall draft anew legislative regulation on health insurance which, in connection with the Health
   Care Act and Treatment Act, shall introduce two types o f health insurance.

     shall be pursuing equality o f chances and liabilities o f health insurance companies with respect to
   mandatory health insurance and insurance companies with respect to voluntary health insurance.

     shall define the conditions for the provision o f social medicine including the costs o f the care and
   nursing o f citizens and contributions to cover health care beyond the so-called solidarity package
   and services connected with the provision o f health care to individuals in material and social need
   due to objectivereasons.

     shall establish Health Care Surveillance Authority thus strengthening institutional control o f health
   insurance companies, with the emphasis on the control o f the contents and extent o f health services
   purchased under the so-called solidarity package, as well as control o f health care institutions with
   respect to the ,,lege artis" provision of health care financed fi-om resources of health insurance
   companies.

     shall be pursuing the control o f the solvency o f health insurance companies through Financial
   Market Authority and shall introduce the obligation to all health care institutions whose turnover




                                                      28

   exceeds a set threshold to undergo independent financial audits resulting in an improved
   transparency o f financial flows inthe health sector.

    recognizing the disproportionate share o f expenditures on drugs from resources o f the health
   insurance, the government shall be pursuing the implementation o f a more open and economically
   more realistic drug policy with a certain permanent and pre-determined participation o f patients (co-
   payments).

    shall prepare transformation o f State Health Care Institutes into Health Care Institutions
   emphasising measures directedtowards reduction and/or elimination o f risks o f injury to health.

    shall continue the already started decentralisation process, and shall create legislative conditions for
   an increased participation o f regions on the ownership o f health care institutions without restricting
   their type andkind,to enable purchase and sales o fhealth services (health care andrelated services),
   and conditions for equality o f chances and responsibilities o f health care institutions without
   restricting the types o f ownership.

    shall take care o f an amendment to the Labour Code and to the Public Service Act so as to enable
   individual differentiation o f wages and mobility o f employees o f health care institutions.

    shall prepare the legislative framework o f institutional education o f healthprofessionals through the
   education sector with the opportunity for health service professionals to undergo postgraduate
   training at schools and institutions that will have acquired accreditation for the corresponding type o f
   education.

        In order to support the realization o f the above objectives, the Government of the Slovak
Republic hereby requests the World Bank's assistance in the form o f a Sector Adjustment Loan
(SECAL) supported by a Technical Assistance Project (TAP) to support Health Sector Modernization,
with a total commitment o f US$ 70 million (SECAL US$ 55 million, TAP US$ 15 million) and a first
tranche o f SECAL in2004 inthe amount o f US$ 15 million.

        The overall goal o f the Health Sector Modernization Support Loan would be to support
comprehensive health sector reforms being carried out by the Slovak Government that promote fiscal
sustainability while continuing to provide quality health care services and financial protection for the
population. Key objectives are to: (i)improve fiscal discipline through structural changes in the health
sector that will alleviate the chronic problem o f arrears inthe health sector, encourage greater technical
and allocative efficiency and institute a system that will promote fiscal sustainability; and (ii) improve
the quality and cost-effectiveness o f the health sector; (iii)mitigate any possible negative impacts on
health care access, specially for vulnerable populations.

         The reforms that we propose to carry out will focus on supporting grant o f greater autonomy to
purchasers and providers, introducing incentives that encourage greater technical and allocative
efficiency, and concentrating the role o f the state in financing a package o f benefits for the entire
population, regulation, policy-making and planning. Inthis respect, we plan, among other measures, to
create hard budget constraints for health care providers to support incentives for technical efficiency at
the level o f health facilities; give health care facilities (particularly hospitals) organizational and
management autonomy to implement needed changes to improve efficiency; create incentives for
purchasers (health insurance companies) to become more efficient by granting HIFs greater
organizational and management autonomy (e.g. to set prices, implement selective contracting with
health providers and implement changes in the provider payment systems); establish an appropriate
regulatory framework to ensure that social functions o f the Slovak health system are maintained
(financing for social care, regulation o f health insurance companies, quality o f care accreditation and
licensing, providing information to consumers); and rationalize benefits under compulsory health



                                                     29

insurance to create a better match with available public resources for health care, and putting in place
mechanisms to curb unsustainable growth inthe future.

        These goals will be realized through a series o f focused reform measures in key areas o f the
health sector. Each of these efforts forms a 'module' and all the modules together cover a significant
part o f the health system. These are: A) Informatisation o f the health sector; B) Improvement o f
allocation-related and technical efficiency within the health care system through implementation o f
systemic changes; C) Public opinion and communication o f the reform; D) Implementation inthe health
sector o f the quality and controlling system; E) Setting up o f a social medicine package; F) Education
and management o f managing officers; G) Project management and evaluation. Details o f these
modules are presentedbelow.

Informatisationofthe healthsector

        The primary objective o f the component is to set up a standardized information environment as
well as to define and to build the standardizing role of state with respect to the health sector. As another
objective, motivation incentives have to be introduced to establish an attractive while competitive
environment for providers o f solutions in the field of health information technologies and subsequent
expected direction o f private investments to this sector. As a result, the efficiency o f the utilisation o f
public and private resources intended for information technologies in the health sector will be
significantly improved. The component i s expected to take care of the provision o f adequate volumes o f
valid continuous data for further analytical processing, interpretation and modelling inaccordance with
the needs o f the malung o f state policy, as well as information and comparisons for the various market
stakeholders (patients, providers and purchasers o f health care). The setting o f the principal elements o f
health documentation protection, document flows between and among the market stakeholders, and data
safety are all considered as important aspects. Implementation and practical use o f information obtained
in this way and o f data aiming at the setting up of a standard information interface and a network,
together with training and education o f health managers in close link to components B and F o f the
Project, are also to be considered integral parts.

The standardisation process will be following the next principles:
         object o f standardisation will be information from health statistics, measurement of health care
         quality, key indicators o f economic performance o f the health system, safety standards, ..,
         the standards will maximize the efficiency o f the gathering o f process-related, health and
         economic information (e.g., at every intervention),
         the standards will respect the need of interlinlung and separating o f systems for the processing
         o fprocess-related, health and economic information,
         the standards will be developed at a ,,low system level" (W3C system),
         the standards will define adequate extent o f interlinkage o f paper and electronic documentation
         as well as the implementation o f standard tools and technologies,
         the standards will determine criteria o f accreditation with respect to data, process and safety
         aspects o f commercial solutions,
         the standards will be compatible to the extent possible with the standard internationally
         recognized concepts and methods in the field o f health information technologies and
         management,
         the standards will be tightly interlinked with the applicable legislative environment o f the
         Slovak Republic and the EU.

         The Component envisages the establishment o f the Health Informatisation Department at the
 Ministry of HeaZth (OIZMZ) as a central standardisation unit. The tasks o f the OIZMZ will mainly




                                                     30

include: standardisation activities, methodological activities, provision for data for analytical
processing, interpretation and modelling for the needs o f the making o f state policy, statistical control
o f data validity, definition and administration o f central registers, code lists and code books, generation
and spreading of new knowledge derived from the data, implementation assistance and support,
realisation o f pilot projects. For this purpose, a good quality o f the OIZMZ staffing and development,
technologicaltools as well as advisory services within the said areas will have to be provided for.

Improving allocation-related and technical efficiency within the health sector through the
implementationof systemchanges

       The second component i s expected to promote the clarification o f the tasks o f the existing health
insurance companies and the legal position o f purchasers, providers and patients within the system, as
well as the making more specific the scope of the health care covered from public resources. It includes:
(i) upofasystemofservicepurchasers, includingthedefinitionoftherulesofcompetitionfor
    setting
purchasers with respect to collection, redistribution and allocation o f resources; (ii)   split o f Treatment
Act into services fully covered by purchasers under the basic package o f services, and services to be
partly reimbursed or not reimbursed at all under the various packages o f non-mandatory services; (iii)
management o f receivables o f the existing health insurance companies and o f the existing liabilities o f
health care institutions; and (iv) definition o f the legal position o f purchasers, providers and patients
within the system.

         This component is expected to support investments into the modernisation o f health care
management and provision at selected inpatient facilities. However, investments will only flow to
health care institutions whose existence i s justified with respect to the plan o f the elastic network o f
health care institutions. The managements o f the institutions will be provided with tools and technical
assistance upon the analysis and review o f physical and human structures and their organisation, and
shall be made available funds to finance reconstructions andor abolishment o f inefficient operations, if
any. Such investments will only be made provided that they will result in a demonstrable improvement
o f cost-effectiveness o f the health care institution applying for investment funds. Consequently, all
selected institutions will have to present restructuring business plans that will clearly specify the
volumes o f scheduled investments and their expected quantified benefits. Decisions on the selection o f
modemisation projects will thus be made based on economic retum rates o f the business plans
presented. Investments will be drawn gradually (e.g. in tranches), depending on the outcome achieved
by the selected health care institutions. A detailed mechanism will be developed incollaboration with
World Bank experts duringthe preparatory stage of the proposedProject.

         The modemisation business plans to be developed by health care institutions are expected to be
directedtowards investments that w ould replace inpatient c are by more efficient and modem fonns
(such as implementation o f one-day and ambulatory treatments), development o f unified management
information systems (e.g. to support decision making or to improve control o f spending on drugs),
utilisation o f innovative consulting systems (e.g. aimed at saving costs on unnecessary transport) and/or
other forms o f quality and efficiency improvement o f the care provided.

Publicopinionand communicationofthe reform

         The ongoing reform o f the Slovak Republic's health sector i s rather extensive and
comprehensive, and shall concern a number o f stakeholders -physicians, drug distributors, patients and
health insurance companies. Inthe view o f the need o f austerity measures due to the efforts to stop the
 growth o f indebtedness (by 700 million a month) this will be made felt by all the above stakeholders
 almost immediately, and the impact will be negative. Groups at risk o f drop o f income that are
 organised or will be able to become organised within the shortest time will naturally set up a led



                                                      31

opposition aimed at stopping the reform or at least at radically narrow down its contents. Such groups
will invest efforts and resources into their intentions commensurate to the volume of funds or
advantages they consider as being at risk. The main tools to achieve the objective mentioned will be
activities focusing on exerting o f concentrated pressure o f public opinion upon the government,
parliament, and the person o fMinister o f Health.

         The interests o f the stakeholders are however frequently contradictory, which on the one hand
partly pre-programs general dissatisfaction, malung on the other hand a good opportunity for
a differentiated approach to different target groups to arise. This will result in the need o f a larger
number o fcommunicationlines coordinated inparallel to each other.

         A wide range o frelatively complex concerns is inherent to health care issues, which are uneasy
to understand and thus to prepare an exact interpretation for. In addition, the topics are sensitive and
personal, e.g. health, quality o f life, and life itself. In trying to make health issue economical, some
ethicalparadoxes will moreover appear, such as ,,price o f health" or ,,price o f life".

         Inthe view ofthe above, the communication will be of the nature of a sensitive influencing of
public opinion, establishing relationships with opinion makers and seeking for their support, as well as
o f other more demanding techniques o f the influencing o f public opinion, such as crisis communication
or issue management. Several surveys, analyses, testing and monitoring events will be needed upon
planning and implementing the communication. Moreover, larger amounts o f printed documents will
have t o be drafted and various events will have t o be organised. This w ork will be demanding and
requires highly qualified experts who are familiar with the topics and who have abundant experiences
with the domestic conditions o f working with public opinion. The sensitivity o f the topics to be
communicatedeven more underlines the need o f a highlyprofessional approach. Ministryo f Health
currently lacks the necessary potential and i s not prepared to carry out similar tasks.

Institutional capacity building to provide for health care control and quality

         Component four o f the proposed Health Care System Modernisation Project will focus on the
building and development o f the intellectual and institutional base to provide for control, supervision,
quality and accreditation in the field o f health care through the establishment o f the Health Care
Surveillance Authority. The establishment o f the HCSA will be based on an analysis o f the roles o f
state, State Health Care Institutes, State Institute for Drug Control, and Institute o f Health Information
and Statistics within the health sector.

         The establishment o f HCSA will not represent further growth o f the administration apparatus
since prospectively the HCSA will become and independent entity. HCSA operation will be covered
loopercent from Project funds during the first years o f its existence only, with a gradual transition to
self-financing through contributions o f health care purchasers and providers, grants, sponsorships etc.
Alternatively, the possibility o f financing o f some HCSA tasks at the national level by state through
specific projects will be considered. Such a model i s typical o f a majority o f countries with a developed
system o f the provision for control, quality and accreditation inthe field o f health care.

         The system o f quality and controlling inthe health sector will be implemented through HCSA.
Its task will be to develop standard therapeutical procedures, so-called guidelines. A clear-cut
framework, principles and development o f institutional capacity to provide for financial supervision,
medical control, quality and accreditation o f health services will be defined, including a coherent
strategy o f professional and managerial training and education o f health care providers.




                                                       32

         With respect to financial supervision, the Project will support the definition o f cooperation
between the newly established HCSA and the existing Financial Market Authority in the field o f the
control o f solvency and cash flows o f purchasers, including redistribution o f insurance premium. Also,
HCSA will be monitoring the area o f pricing.

         With respect to the provision for quality and accreditation in the health sector, HCSA will be
taking care o f the development and drafting of standard therapeutical procedures (clinical guidelines /
therapeutical protocols) based on evidence-based medicine. It will be setting and monitoring
performance parameters for health care institutions and checking the lege artis provision of health
services. Prospectively, it will supervise and exercise the process o f accreditation o f health care
providers. As an important part o f this component, an adequate legislative framework will be developed
to allow the functioning o fHCSA with respect to control and quality o f health services.

Social and long-term care

         The objective i s to define the scope and the contents o f social medicine that currently represents
a non-defined overlap o f the health and social areas. Citizens will be deriving benefits from the
humanisation o f the environment, and the systemo f social protection from the setting o f the method o f
financing o f services and devices through four financial channels: health insurance comapnies, social
sector budget, municipalities and citizens. An important task will be to redefine the missions o f the
individual institutions, be it in the health (treatment institutions for the long-term ill,special treatment
institutions - geriatric, hospices, etc.) or social area (pensioners' homes, social services homes, special
schools).

         The c omponent focuses on s everal target groups. These mainly include individuals w ho are
unable to care for themselves and whose health condition requires nursing and attendance care. This
concerns e.g. elderly individuals suffering from age-related diseases, individuals with worsened health
condition, the chronically ill, individuals suffering from mental diseases, patients requiring
resocialization, etc. Important factors to improve the system efficiency will include: (i)    solution to the
management o f the above target groups concerning their permanent and/or temporary admission; this i s
connected with the overall aspect o f the institutionalisation o f these services, and (ii) definition o f the
purchaser o f the services and devices to be provided.

     Education and management of managers

         Inthe view o f the functions of HCSA inthe field of medical control, quality and accreditation,
HCSA will operate as also the maker and promoter o f the coherent strategy o f professional and
managerial training and education o f health care providers that will be interconnected with health policy
objectives and the strategy o f continuous modemisation o f the health sector. HCSA itselfwill not be the
provider o f education; rather, it will be monitoring the implementation o f the strategy and providing
counselling to Ministry o f Health upon the strategy implementation. It will be contracting, from its own
resources, strategically important education programs at the national level and/or projects oriented
towards an improvement o f the system o f professional and managerial training o f providers, in
accordance with the EU requirements. HCSA will be continuously evaluating programs offered by
teaching institutions and workplaces, and will be conducting research in the field o f the provision o f
health s ervices in relation t o the reform program. It at the s ame time will be building international
networks with similarly oriented organisations in other Central and Eastern European countries as well
as inEUMember States.

         Successful implementation o f the reform requires a critical mass o f managers at the level o f
providers and purchasers o f health services to become trained. The objective o f the Project i s to


                                                       33

promote education o f health and other human resources so as to give rise to acritical group able to
effectively manage the system at the micro-level.

Project managementand evaluation

        This component will be financing the Project management, including the preparation,
procurement, financial management and evaluation of the Project results obtained. A Project
Coordination Unit at the Ministry o f Health of the Slovak Republic will be in charge o f the
administrative coordination o f the activities o f consultants, and o f the Project management.

        Special attention will be paid to Project evaluation, in particular at health care institutions
supported by the Project. There, the economic as well as qualitative impact o f investments and
organisational changes will be monitored and quantified. Moreover, customer surveys will be
conducted focusing on the assessment o f the effects o f the reform.

        The health sector reforms proposed above would result in broad-spectrum structural changes,
not only in health sector financing, management and organization, but also in the way the delivery o f
services i s organized and the way that the patients will interact with the providers. W e are aware that
the existing capacity in the health sector at all levels would need to be further strengthened to manage
these changes effectively. Accordingly, we propose to adopt a series o f measures to strengthen the
administrative and managerial capacity inthe health system. Special training modules will be developed
specific t o the needs o f administrators and managers at all 1evels o f the health system, and will be
administered on an ongoing basis.

        We are also aware that the health sector reforms will require sustained c ommitment for the
necessary financial support, and w e w illensure that adequate budgetary resources are available and
earmarked for this purpose. We have already made an allocation o f US$ 10 million for budget year
2003, and will continue to make available the requiredresources inthe rest o f the project years as well.

        We intend to implement the Health Sector Program by mobilizing and harnessing the available
resources inthe Ministryo f Health. A Health Sector Program Coordination Unithas been established to
administer the v arious aspects o f the program. T h e PCUw illdraw o n the necessary expertise from
within and outside the government inorder to implement the various aspects o f the program. The PCU
will also coordinate activities betweenthe MOH, implementing agencies, and the Bank.

         We believe that continuous and effective monitoring o f the progress o f the Health Sector
Program i s key to its success. For this purpose, we propose to rely on a variety o f different instruments
and mechanisms that will guide us throughout the process. Ongoing evaluation will provide us with
essential feedback for gauging progress, malung course corrections and responding to changing
demands and circumstances. A wide variety o f specialized studies and assessments will be undertaken
throughout the duration o f the Program, and will focus on each o f the several modules inthe system. A
system o f tracking changes  -  particularly ina set o f broad financial, access and quality indicators - will
be set up and the necessary supporting information and recording systems will be established.

         The Health Sector Modernization Support Program provides us with an important opportunity
to invest in health o f our people and for the future, and we are glad that we have a partner inthe World
Bank in this effort. We are sure you will agree that the Health Sector Modernization Support Program
presented above i s based on sound principles and will bring about significant improvements in the
desiredareas of health financing, management and quality o f services.




                                                       34

        Iattach(seeAnnex2)thepolicymatrixthatwehaveworkedoutwithourBankcolleagues.We
remain committed to meeting the conditions and benchmarks laid down inthis matrix.



Sincerely,




RudolfZajac
Minister of Health




                                                35

                                                  Annex 4: Country at a Glance
                                                                 Slovak Republic


                                                                     Europe 8        Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Slovak     Central      middle-
                                                           Republic      Asia       income        Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                   5.4      475          504                         Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                              3970      1,960        4,460
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                21.5      930         2,248                               -

Average annual growth, 199642
Population (!A)                                                  0.0       0.1          1.3
Labor force (%)                                                  0.7       0.6          1.8       GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                  per                                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                             capita                                nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)
Urban population('A of total population)                          58        63           77
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                   74        69           71                               -
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                             7        20           24
Child malnutrition('A of children under 5)                                                9               Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)               84        90           87
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                           3           10
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)              102       102          127     1    ---Slovak         Republic
    Male                                                         102       103          128                    Upper-middle-Incomegroup
                                                                                                        ~

    Female                                                       102       101          126

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                               1992      2001         2002
                                                                                                   Economic ratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                                                               ~
                                                                11.8      20.5         23.7
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                                   28.1      32.0         31.2
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                                70.3      74.0         72.8                             Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      24.1      23.4         23.8
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                                 22.9         22.7

Current account balance/GDP                                      -5.9      -8.5         -8.2
interest payments/GDP                                             1.o       2.7         2.5
Total debt/GDP                                                  20.2      55.2         55.7
Total debt service/exports                                        7.2     10.8          13.0
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                                                                  L

Presentvalue of debffexports
                                                                                                                      Indebtedness
                                        1982-92 1992-02        2001      2002       200246
(average annual growth)
GDP                                        -1.1      3.9          3.3       4.4          4.5             -Slovak         Republic
GDP per capita                             -1.4      3.7          3.7       4.4          4.2             __ Upper-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                6.8      8.5          6.5       5.9          8.8


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                                Igg2                               Growth of Investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                                 4 5                  I 40
industry                                                                  31 8                     20
    Manufacturing                                                         23 3                      0
Services                                                                  63 8                    -20
Private consumption                                              503      566           562       -40-
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                     256      200           199                     -GDi            *GDP
Importsof goods and services                                     743      825           799


                                                1982-92     199242        2001         zooz     1
 (average annual growth)                                                                          Growth of exports and imports (%)              1
Agriculture                                          -4.0         4.6      -5.0
 industry                                            -7.0         0.4       3.0
    Manufacturing                                        .,       4.3      10.2
Services                                             4.8          4.6       4.6

 Privateconsumption                                  -2.3         4.0       3.9
 Generalgovernmentconsumption                         1.4         1.8       5.1          4 0     -10 -
 Gross domestic investment                           -6.1         8.1      16.5          4.1    1            ---Exports         +Imports
 Importsof goods and services                         4.4         9.5      11.7          5 3    1                                                I
 Note:2002 data are preliminaryestimates. Group data are through 2001

 * The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill
     be incomplete.




                                                                            36

                                                                                                Slovak Republic

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1992     2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                       I
("A change)
Consumer prices                            10.0      7.3     3.3      10
Implicit GDP deflator                      11.4      5.4     4.0

Government finance                                                   i   5
("A of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                 l o
                                                                                                                    i ,,I
Current revenue                           46.1     35.1    35.9                  97    9,      9,       0,     01
Current budget balance                     4 . 4    -0.7    -1.5                ~    G   D deflator
                                                                                              P       *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                   -11.9     -6.7    4 . 9                                                      I
TRADE
                                          1992     2001    2002                                                     _.

(US$ millions)                                                           Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               12,645 14,365        16,000 -
  Other agriculture                                                    16,000 -
  Commodity2
  Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                               14,770 16,497
  Food
  Fuel and energy
  Capital goods                                                       '
                                                                                                              01
Export price index (1995=100)                                                   96   97    98     99    00          02
                                                     132    133
Import price index (1995=100)                        140     140      I               Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                            94       95

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1992     2001    2002       1
(US$ millions)                                                           Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services             8,050   15,134 17,151
Importsof goods and services              8,783   16,780 18.827
Resource balance                           -733   -1,646  -1,676

Net income                                  -35     -313   4 5 6
Net currenttransfers                                 212     193

Current account balance                    -698   -1,746  -1,939

Financing items (net)                       159    1,888   5,481
Changes in net reserves                     539     -142  -3,542       1-12

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      409    4,186   9,091
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)           28.3     48.3    45.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                                                                                                       I
                                           1992    2001    2002
 (US$ millions)                                                           Composltion of 2001 debt (USSmlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      2,372   11,300  13,188
   IBRD                                     110      205     204       I                  A 205 D 356
   IDA                                         0       0        0                                       E 88

Total debt service                          591    1,671   2,240
   IBRD                                        5      31      31
   IDA                                         0       0        0

 Composition of net resourceflows
   Official grants                                    78     107
   Official creditors                        77      -56
   Private creditors                       -230       65
   Foreign direct investment                       1,579   4,012
   Portfolioequity                                  -229     552                                                        I
 World Bank program                                                    I
   Commitments                                 0     177       24         A-IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                             -
                                                                        ~

   Disbursements                             44       54        0       1 B IDA
                                                                           -        D Other multilateral
                                                                                     -                    F Private
                                                                                                             -
   Principal repayments                        0      22       22         C. IMF                          G .Short-term
   Net flows                                 44       32     -22
    Interest payments                          5       9        9
    Nettransfers                              39      23     -31


 Development Economics                                                                                           8/13/03




                                                     37

                                        Annex 5: Key EconomicIndicators

    Table 1:Slovak Republic: Key Economic Indicators, 1998-2005
                                                                            Actual                            Projection
                                                           1998      1999     2000    2001      2002     2003   2004    2005
REAL ECONOMY
Real GDP (growth rate)                                        4.0       1.3     2.2       3.3      4.4     4.0     4.0    4.1
Unemployment rate                                            12.5      17.5     18.2    18.3      17.8    15.3     15.0  14.5
Inflation (CPI, period average)                                6.7     10.6     12.0      7.3      3.3      8.5     8.1   4.8
Private ConsumptiodGDP                                       57.2      58.9    58.5     58.7     58.0     56.7    55.6   54.6
Gross National SavingsiGDP                                   25.0      23.4    22.8     22.9     22.8     25.0    26.9   27.9
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP                                34.7      28.2    26.4     31.9     30.9     31.3    31.8   31.9

BALANCEOF PAYMENTS
Trade Balance/GDP                                           -10.0      -4.3     -4.5   -10.4      -8.9     -7.1    -5.7   -4.8
Export growth (US$ value)                                    11.2      -4.6     16.1      6.4     13.7    27.2     13.6   10.4
Import growth (US$ value)                                    11.9     -13.4     12.9    15.6      11.7    24.1     11.0    8.4
Current Account BalanceiGDP                                  -9.7      -4.9     -3.6    -8.6      -8.2     -6.3    -5.0   -4.c
Gross Official Reserves (billion US$)                          2.9       3.4     4.1      4.2      9.2      9.6    10.3   10.8
Reserve Cover (months o f imports o f G&S)                     2.3       3.1     3.4      3.0       5.9     4.9     4.8    4.t
Gross ExternalDebdGDP                                        54.1      52.1     54.9    55.2      55.7    45.6     43.1  38.8
MLTExternalDebt Service/Exports o fGNFS                      14.3      16.2     14.1    12.2      11.4     13.7     9.5    8.8

PUBLIC FINANCES
General Government BalanceiGDP, ESA 95 basis                            -6.4   -10.7     -7.3      -7.2    -5.1    -3.9   -3.:
Public DebdGDP, ESA 95 basis                                 28.8      40.1     44.1    49.8      44.3     45.2    44.9  45.(

INTEREST RATES(inpercent, end-of-period)
Lending rate (short term)                                    18.9      16.4     10.7       8.8      7.5
Deposit rate (one week)                                      16.2       12.1     6.0      6.0       4.0
N B S policy rate (two week standard tender rep0 rate)                          8.00    7.75      6.50

MONEYAND CREDIT
N e t domestic assets (percent change)                       10.9        9.5     6.2    16.5     -13.0     18.5
 Credit to enterprises and households (percent change)          5.8      4.6     4.5       5.3     12.1    11.0    10.5
 Broadmoney (percent change)                                   4.2      11.4    15.5     11.8       3.4    10.5    10.5

LABORAND WAGES (percent, period average)
Nominal wage growth                                             9.0      6.7     6.4       8.3      9.3     8.8     8.9    5.f
 Real gross wage growth                                         2.7     -3.1    -4.9       0.8      5.8     0.3     0.7    0.1

EXCHANGERATES (average)
 Nominal Exchange Rate ( S K K per US$)                      35.2      41.4     46.2    48.3      45.3
 Nominal Exchange Rate (SKK per Euro)                        39.2       44.1    42.6    43.3      42.7
 Real Effective Exgange Rate, CPI-based, percent                        -2.5    11.0       0.3      0.2
change
 Real Effective Exgange Rate, ULC-based, percent                       -14.1      1.6      0.3     -2.4
change

Memo Items
 Gross Domestic Product (current S K K billion)                775       836     909      989    1,074    1,186   1,307  1,411
 Gross Domestic Product (current US$ billion)                 22.0      20.2    19.7     20.5      23.7    31.1    34.2   35.'
 Atlas GNI per Capita (US$)                                 4,000     3,860    3,800   3,760     3,950
Source: Statistical Office o f the Slovak Republic, Ministry o f Finance, National Bank o f Slovakia and IMF, 2003.




                                                              38

                                                    Annex 6: Statement of Loans



OperationsPortfolio(JBRDmA and Grants)
As Of Date 08/18/2003
ClosedProjects              3

IBRDmA    *
 Total Disbursed(Active)     53.76
       of which hasbeenrepai 0.00
 TotalDisbursed(Closed)      130.43
       ofwhichhasbeenrepai 38.39
 TotalDisbursed(Active+Cla   184,190,499.44
       of which hasbeenrepai 38,393,219.18
 TotalUndisbursed(Active)    195.46
 TotalUndisbursed(Closed)    0.00
 TotalUndisbursed(Active +( 195,464,340.00

 Active Proiects                                                                                                    DifferenceBetween
                                                    LastPSR                                                         ExpectedandActual
                                               SupervisionRating                OriginalAmountinUS%Millions           Disbursements

                                                                                                                         Orig.    Frm
ProjectID                   ProjectName     Develooment Imolementati
                                             Obiectives  onProgress Fiscal Year IBRD IDA GRANT Cancel. Undisb.                   Rev'd
PO64542                     EFSAL                S           S         2002      177.3                       159.873  123.5431
PO69864                     PUBFINMGMT                                 2003        5.45                     5.67225
PO38090                     SOCBENREFADh         S           S         2002        23.5                     29.91909 8.6333333
Overall Result                                                                  206.25                      195.4643 132.17643




                                                                        39

                                    Annex 7: Fund RelationsNote
                                                                       InternationalMonetary Fund
                                                                       700 19* Street, NW
                                                                       Washington, D. C. 20431 U S A
Public InformationNotice (PIN) No. 03/94
August 5,2003

                              SlovakRepublic:PublicInformationNotice

         On July 23, 2003, the ExecutiveBoardo fthe InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF) concluded the
Article IV consultation with the Slovak Republic.

Background

         Slovakia has emerged as one o f the fastest growing European Union accession countries over
the past two years against the backdrop o f successful macroeconomic management and structural
reforms since the late 1990s, including the curtailment o f quasi-fiscal activities and restructuring and
privatization o f public sector enterprises; improvements infiscal transparency and control; and inflation
reduction. Lower trade barriers, substantial foreign direct investment, and financial sector reform added
further impetus to growth. Recent reforms have culminated in an invitation to join the EUinMay 2004,
which was then ratified by a national referendumheld inM a y 2003.

         Despite significant progress, the Slovak economy continues to be hampered by structural
weaknesses and related macroeconomic imbalances. The unemployment rate remains very high, both
absolutely and by regional standards; large fiscal deficits have persisted; and substantial external
imbalances have re-emerged since mid-2001.

         Having won a second term inthe September 2002 elections, the government o f Prime Minister
Dzurinda declared its intentionto address these weaknesses through acceleratedfiscal consolidationand
structural reforms covering the tax system, the benefits system, pensions, labor markets, and the
judiciary. The government and the National Bank of Slovalua (NBS) have also announced their
intentionto meet the requirements for euro adoptionby 2006.

         The economic expansion gained momentum in 2002 in the context of low core inflation and
improving external accounts, but a widening fiscal deficit. Real GDP grew by a robust 4.4 percent, led
by strong household consumption. Core inflation was only 1.9 percent at year-end, well below the
indicative benchmark o f the NBS. A combination o f strong real export growth and declining import
growth rate helped a slight narrowing o f the current account deficit to 8.2 percent of GDP, while the
general government deficit exceeded 7 percent o f GDP (ESA95 basis). Foreign direct investment was a
record 17percent o f GDP in2002, owing largely to the sale of the state gas monopoly.

         Buoyant-although slowing-economic activity so far in 2003 reflects a shift away from
consumption, towards investment and exports. Indeed, despite the slowdown in Europe, exports
continued to accelerate, led by strong expansion in the automotive sector. Price deregulation and
indirect tax hikes have curtailed household consumption and fueled a rise in headline inflation to 8%
percent at end-June-but core inflation remained low, at 3 percent. Also, fiscal retrenchment was
initiated in the context o f a 2003 budget that targets a 2 percentage point reduction in the general
government deficit from 2002.




                                                    40

        Unemployment remained stubbornly high through end-2002, reflecting mainly structural
factors including slulls mismatches, regional disparities, high social contnbution rates, and a benefit
system that creates disincentives to work. But the registered unemployment rate fell by 3 percentage
points in the first six months o f the year, to less than 15 percent, reflecting a tightening o f eligibility
requirements and buoyant economic activity.

        Since the fall o f 2002, monetary policy has been challenged by the increasing conflict between
reducing inflation and containing speculative capital inflows. The N B S has resorted to foreign exchange
market intervention-most recently inM a y 2003-and cut interest rates by 150 basis points in November
2002. It has indicated its readiness to reduce interest rates further ifwarranted by market developments.

Executive BoardAssessment

        Executive Directors commended the Slovak authorities for their successful implementation
over the past few years o f policies that have resulted in brisk economic growth, falling unemployment,
and notably resilient exports despite weak growth in Slovakia's major trading partners. The
government's skillful economic management and commitment to reform have contributed to a major
improvement inthe perception o f the Slovak economy abroad, and the recent announcements o f major
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) projects have further bolstered the outlook for continued productivity
gains, strong growth, and progress toward EUconvergence.

         Directors nevertheless agreed that, to sustain this favorable outlook, the authorities will need to
take further decisive action to address the still-high unemployment, achieve a sustainable fiscal deficit
reduction, and promote a further narrowing o f the external current account deficit. They welcomed the
government's wide-ranging reform agenda to address these challenges, and noted that full
implementation o f this ambitious agenda will also be key to prepare Slovakia's entry into the EU.They
encouraged the authorities to build on the outcome o f the recent referendum on Slovalua's EU
membershipand on its prospective accessionin2004 to press ahead with their reformplans.

         Directors emphasized that fiscal consolidationto increase national savings, improve the policy
mix and reduce external imbalances should remain the top priority inthe period ahead. They supported
the authorities' plan to meet the Maastricht deficit criterion o f 3 percent o f GDP by 2006 as well as their
intermediate objective to reduce the general government deficit t o 5 percent o f GDP in 2003. They
urged the authorities to pursue steadfast policy implementation to avoid future fiscal slippages, and to
carefully design and sequence the expenditure and revenue measures needed to help achieve the fiscal
objectives.

         Directors agreed that fiscal consolidation will hinge on expenditure reduction. They supported
the authorities' plans to streamline health sector and welfare spending, and urged them to continue to
seek savings in other areas. Directors stressed the importance o f reducing public employment and o f a
prudent wage policy, including to help ensure economy-wide wage discipline and continued
competitiveness. Carefully prioritized expenditure reductions will also be essential to create room for
the infrastructure development needed to support real convergence to EU living standards. Directors
encouraged the authorities to carry on with their plans to develop a comprehensive medium-term
expenditure framework to support progress towards their fiscal objectives and ensure spending
discipline at all levels o f government.


         Directors agreed that the forthcoming tax reform will support economic performance, reduce
distortions and improve tax administration and compliance through enhanced transparency and
simplicity. Given the uncertainties surrounding the revenue impact o f the reform, Directors urged the



                                                      41

authorities to stand ready to take all necessary measures to achieve their fiscal targets should downside
risks to revenue materialize. They were encouraged that the authorities already demonstrated their
commitment in this regard. Some Directors suggested close monitoring o f the distributional impact of
tax reform proposals.

         Directors highlighted the importance o f pension reform for underpinning a sustainable fiscal
position in the longer term. They recognized that the authorities face a difficult decision on whether to
introduce a mandatory, funded pillar to the pension system given the potential implications for the
timely observance o f the Maastricht deficit criterion. Directors encouraged the authorities to press
ahead in any event with the reform o f the existing public pension system. The priority should be to
achieve a sufficiently ambitious increase in retirement ages and to strengthen the relationship between
benefits and contributions.

         Directors commended the N B S for its skillful management o f monetary policy, with core
inflation remaining low notwithstanding increases inadministered prices and indirect taxes. They noted
that monetary policy will continue to face a delicate balancing act between further progress on
disinflation and the need to safeguard competitiveness in the face o f surges in capital inflows, without
leaning against exchange rate appreciation that would be inline with economic fundamentals. Given the
still relatively high level o f headline inflation, some Directors suggested that priority shouldbe given to
further disinflation efforts. Directors welcomed the NBS's efforts to improve inflation forecasts, which
would support a more forward-looking monetary policy with greater emphasis on core inflation
benchmarks. They also stressed that closer coordination between the government and the N B S on
public communicationswould help guide market expectations.

         Directors welcomed the authorities' strategy for euro adoption, and saw their plans to meet the
Maastricht criteria by 2006 as feasible. They stressed, however, that this will require the full
implementation o f the planned fiscal consolidation and structural reforms to ensure that the Maastricht
criteria are met in a sustainable manner prior to the adoption o f the euro. Directors therefore encouraged
the authorities to continue to make strong progress on their structural reform agenda. Inparticular, they
saw a need for further efforts to enhance product and labor market flexibility and improve the benefits
system, to address the still-high unemployment, reduce regional disparities, and facilitate the
adjustment o f the economy to adverse shocks.

         Directors also stressed the importance o f continued efforts to strengthen the resilience o f the
financial sector against the possibility o f increased capital flows. They welcomed the recent
strengthening o f banking supervision-including the reorganization o f t he NEB'Sbanking supervision
department-and the increased cooperation among financial market regulators, and encouraged the
authorities to implement fully the Supervisory Development Plan to improve on-site and off-site
banking supervision.

         Directors commended the authorities' focus on developing entrepreneurship, including recent
efforts to comply with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development anti-bribery
convention. They welcomed the progress made on improving the quality o f economic statistics,
increasing transparency, and c omplying w ithinternational standards, includinginthe areas o f fiscal
transparency and management. They looked forward to further improvements in line with the original
Reports on the Observance o f Standards and Codes recommendations.


For questions please contact. Mr.Femandez-Ansola, Division Chief, European IDepartment, IMF, tel.
no.: 202-623-7320.




                                                       42

MAP SECTION


