                                        Slovak Republic
     Health Sector ModernizationSupport Sectoral Adjustment Loan (Loan 7195- SK)
                         Second Tranche Release- FullComeliance


                                     I. BACKGROUND

 1.     The HealthSector Modemization Support SectoralAdjustment Loan (HSMS SECAL)
 i s supportinghealth sector reforms inthe Slovak Republic (the Borrower) aimed at improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures on health care, enhancing the quality
of services, and increasing the regulatory and planning and policy-making capacity of the
Ministry of Health. The reforms supported through the HSMS SECAL are part of the
Govemment's Manifesto for health sector reform, which was approvedinNovember 2002.

                        11.     RECENTECONOMIC PERFORMANCE

2.      The economy has been gathering strength over recent years. Real GDP has risen
steadily from 2.0 percent in 2000 to 5.5 percent in2004, and growth has remained robust at
5.1 percent in the first quarter of 2005. Meanwhile, inflation i s abating: average consumer
price inflation declined from 7.5 percent in 2004 to 2.7 percent in January-June 2005. High
inflation in2004 was causedby the last major round of de-regulation of administratedprices.
Core inflation remained low at 2.6 percent in 2004 and 1.1 percent in January-June 2005.
Despite large cuts in interest rates and several rounds of market interventions, the koruna i s
appreciating(5.7 percent year-on-year at end-December 2004 and 3.9 percent year-on-year at
end-June2005).

3.      Although the current account deficit increased to 3.5 percent of GDP in 2004, it
remains within comfortable margins. Foreign direct investments have regained their
movement upwards, with manynew contracts inthe automotive, electronics and engineering
sectors, although the levels are still lower than in 2002. The expansion in exports halved,
from 22.5 percent in 2003 to 11.4 percent in 2004, below the 12.7 percent growth rate of
imports. The negative contribution of net exports to overall economic growth, caused
primarilyby the retooling of the German-ownedVolkswagen Slovakia car assembly plant,
Slovakia's major exporter, is expected to be a temporary occurrence. Rising technology
imports and recovering domestic demand are expected to fbrther fuel the rapid increase in
imports.

4.      Supportedby strong revenueperformance, the fiscal outcome for 2004 was better than
expected. The 2004 consolidatedbudget deficit (including local budgetsand off-budget costs)
was 3.3 percent of GDP. The 2005 deficit i s targeted at 3.4 percent of GDP, excluding the
costs of pension reform, which will divert a portion o f payroll taxes from the state-run pay-
as-you-go scheme to private accounts (adjusted for pension reform, however, the projected
deficit would be 4.2 percent of GDP). The 2006-08 budget framework envisages a further
decline in the deficit (excluding the cost of pension reform) to 2.9 percent of GDP in 2006
and 1.6percent of GDP in2007, consistentwith Euro adoption in2009.

5.      As a result of rapid GDP growth, the first quarter of 2005 reported 7.2 percent real
wage growth, after 2.5 percent growth in 2004 and 2.0 percent decline in 2003 (year-on-
year). However, wages still remain much lower than inother Visegrad countries:hourly labor
costs in2003 expressed as percentageof the EuropeanUnionaverage (EU15=100) were 25.6

 in Hungary, 26.7 in Poland, 27.3 in the Czech Republic, and only 20.2 in Slovakia. The
 increase was highest in agriculture (10.1 percent) which benefited the most from EU
 membership, in manufacturing (9.9 percent) reflecting increased demand o f foreign
 companies for domestic skilled labor, andpublic administration (7.5 percent).

 6.     High unemployment remains a concem however, particularly among low-skilled
 labor. The registered unemployment rate declined to 13.1 percent in December 2004 and to
 11.1 percent in June 2005, down from the reported 15.6 percent in December 2003. Recent
 reforms, which resulted in a major improvement o f the business environment and increased
 labor market flexibility, attracted foreign investments, which - as seasonally adjusted figures
 seem to indicate - have started generating employment since the third quarter o f 2004. New
jobs have been generated especially in the westem part o f the country. Regional disparities
 remain deep, mainly because o f poor transport infrastructure, with the registered
 unemployment rate atjust 2.3 percent inthe capital, Bratislava, but approaching 28 percent in
 the two poorest districts located in central-south Slovakia. Meanwhile, the duration o f
 unemployment continues to rise.

      111.   PROGRESSINIMPLEMENTING THE HEALTHREFORMPROGRAM

 7.     The first two years o f the health reform program have focused on controlling the
growing indebtedness o f the health system and ensuring fiscal sustainability, and a series o f
measures have been adopted to keep health expenditures within the bounds set by revenue
collections. Collectively known as "Stabilization Measures", these efforts consisted
essentially of: (i)
                  introduction o fnominal copayments for patients; (ii) changes inthe process
and procedures related to procurement and reimbursemento f pharmaceuticals; and (iii)      pilot
projects for hospital restructuring in the three large districts o f Bratislava, Kosice and
Banska-Bystrica.

8.      Patient copayments have been introduced at all levels and types o f care (except for
emergency care, preventive care and health services for children under the age of 6 years),
andpatients are now requiredto pay SKK20 peroutpatient visit andSKK5O per day for every
inpatient day for a maximum o f 10 days (the last day i s free). People identified as poor and
vulnerable receive a monthly subsidy o f SKK50 per person to defray additional expenses on
account o f copayment for health services. In the two years since the introduction o f fees in
the health care system, Slovaks have paid a total o f SKK2.7 billion to doctors, pharmacies,
andhospitals, andthe number ofvisit to physicians has decreasedby 8 percent. This hasbeen
accompanied by a reduction inthe number o f pharmaceutical prescriptions, resultinginhuge
savings for the healthcare system as a whole.

9.      The impact o f copayments on access and utilization o f health services i s regularly
monitored, and initial survey reports and public opinion polls do not provide any evidence o f
access and utilization o f health care being adversely affected by the introduction o f
copayments. Early results indicate that only 2 percent o f those surveyed stated that they did
not seek care becauseo fthe copayments.

10.     The most significant and far-reaching measure to control pharmaceutical expenditures
that has been adopted i s that of open competition among pharmaceutical providers, which i s
conducted on-line so that all bidders have complete information about the bids of their
competitors as well. This simple measure has led to a significant reduction in the prices o f
many drugs.At the same time, the insurance companies reimbursethe patients on the basis o f



                                                2

 the lowest price in every therapeutic category, which i s determinedon the basis o f daily dose
 requirementsand publishedin a handbook that is widely circulated among pharmacies. The
 pharmacies are required under the law to explain to the patient the substitutability and
 availability o f drugs and the different copayments associatedwith them. Patients choosing the
 higher-priced drugs make the higher copayment as determined and laid down in the
 handbook. As a result of these measures, the rate o f growth o f expenditures on drugs during
 2003-04 dropped to low single digits (adjusted for increase in V A T taxes), lower that the
 annual double-digit inflation inthe vicinity o f 12to 15 percent inprevious years.

 11.     Rationalizingthe numbero fhospitals andhospital bedsby consolidating hospitals and
reconfiguring the mix o f hospital beds i s a priority in the ongoing reform program of the
Ministryof Health. A detailedassessment of all hospitals has been carried out and a master
plan for hospitals i s close to finalization. A network o f essential hospitals i s being drawn up
 and will be strengthened during the rationalization process. Hospitals and hospital beds
 identifiedas excess capacity inthe three big cities of Bratislava, Banska-Bystrica and Kosice
are included in the first round o f the consolidation process. The Ministry o f Health has also
established a Hospital Restructuring Fund to support specific capital investments in the
hospital sector inthe near future.

 12.     Inaddition, steps are beingtakento corporatizepublic hospitals andmakethemfully
autonomous in their functions. Corporate hospitals will not have an implicit govemment
guarantee, which will send an important signal to suppliersthat they cannot simply continue
to lend to hospitals. This is expected to create hard budget constraints for hospitals and
compel them to attach high priority to efficiency. Corporate hospitals will be allowed to
retain savings and keep revenues, which they may re-invest in the hospital operation, thus
generating additional incentives for hospitals to change their input mix and align inputs more
closely with outputs. For hospitals that continue to build arrears, there will be the prospect o f
bankruptcy or the possibility o f selected bailouts by the Government or commercial buy-
backs inexchange for a rationalizationplan.

 13.     Since the hospital restructuring program i s focusing on the three big cities o f
Bratislava, Banska-Bystrica and Kosice where overcapacity i s most severe, the rationalization
process o f hospital facilities i s not likely to have a negative impact on access to health care
services. The Ministry o f Health recognizes that the rationalization o f hospital services in
rural areas will need to be conducted with caution. This i s particularly true for mountainous
areas, where travel time to the nearest facility might be severely extended in case o f a
hospital closure. These facilities are proposed to be included in the network o f essential
hospitals andprotected from closure.

14.     The net result o f the stabilization measures was that annual systemic debt fell fkom
SKK9 billion in 2002 to SKK4.8 billion in 2003 to SKK2.4 billion in 2004, which i s under
0.3 percent o fGDP.

15.     System measures - the second o f the three steps in the reform program - aim to
increase the efficiency o f the system and mobilize resources. Supporting legislation for this
step o f the reform program has already been passed in the Parliament. The system measures
place emphasis on reforming the health insurance system and reducing the benefit package
covered by mandatory social health insurance. Legislation with respect to these measures has
taken the form o f the following six Acts: (ijAct on Health Insurance, which regulates social
and private health insurance; (iij Act on Health Insurance Companies and the Health Care


                                                  3

 Surveillance Authority, which introduces budget constraints, transparent financial
 relationships, accounting and auditing; (iii)Act on Providers, which introduces increased
 independence in decision-making and autonomy o f individual healthcare providers and their
 responsibility for consequences of their decisions; (iv) Act on the Ambulance Service, which
 organizes and integrates emergency service; (v) Act on Healthcare, which defines healthcare
 and forms of its provision, rights and duties, handling of health documentation, and
 regulation o f provision o f health-related services; and (vi) Treatment Act, which defines and
 develops the scope o f services covered under social health insurance. Network measures- the
 thirdofthe three steps inthereformprogram-aimat improving the quality andefficiency o f
 health care providers. A Health Care Surveillance Authority has recently been set up for this
 purpose, and has become operational. A Hospital Restructuring Fundhas recently been set up
 andi s expected to become hllyoperational soon.

              IV.     PROGRESSAGAINST TRANCHE RELEASECRITERIA

 16.     The Borrower has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic policy framework, as
judged on the basis o f the macroeconomic scenario defined in the 2004 Country Partnership
 Strategy with the Borrower. According to this macroeconomic scenario, economic growth in
the Slovak Republic would exceed the average for EU countries, inflation would be
maintained at low levels, substantial FDI flows would continue, the current account deficit
would average about 3 percent of GDP through 2007, and the Govemment's fiscal deficit
would decline to 3 percent o f GDP in that year. These criteria would also be considered to
constitute satisfactory progress towards meeting the Maastricht criteria and subsequently
joining the European Monetary Union. All o f these criteria have been met, as described in
Section I1above, confirming that the Borrower has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic
policy framework.

 17.    Progress against specific tranche release criteria as set out in Section Io f Schedule 2
o fthe LoanAgreement i s described below.

18.     Condition 1: The contribution of the health system to the general budget deficit has
been reduced to one percent (1 percent) o f GDP.

19.     This condition has been met. The stock of debt attributable to accumulated health
system deficits has continued to grow but at a declining pace, which i s the goal o f this
condition. In2003 the health system deficit fell to less than 0.4 percent o f GDP and to less
than 0.3 percent in2004. The gap is projected to be closed in2005. Stabilization measures
introduced during the first two years o f the reform program contributed significantly to this
narrowing o f the gap between health system revenues and expenditures. These measures
included the introduction o fnominal copayments for patients, simple but effective changes in
pharmaceutical policies, and hospital restructurings. As a result, the annual deficit in the
health sector fell from SKK9 billion in2002 to SKK4.8 billion in2003 and to SKK2.4 billion
in2004, corresponding to thedecliningpercentagesof GDP shown above.

20.     Condition 2: The Borrower has developed mechanisms and institutional
arrangements acceptable to the Bank for the inclusion of new treatment procedures and
pharmaceuticals into the essentialpackage o fhealth services.

21.     This conditionhas been met. In September 2004, the Borrower's National Council
passed Act No. 577/2004 on the scope o f healthcare covered by public health insurance and


                                                4

 on settlements for healthcare-relatedservices, which regulates, inter alia, the inclusion ofnew
 treatment procedures and pharmaceuticals into the essential package of health services. The
 Act became effective on January 1, 2005. Article 3 of this Act establishes the Catalogue of
 Health Procedures in relation to Diagnosis, and lays down the criteria for inclusion of health
 procedures into this Catalogue. Article 12 of the Act lays down the criteria for inclusion of
 new pharmaceuticals, and establishes that new drugs can be introduced in the List of Drugs
 only ifit is demonstratedthat the drug's benefitsare superior to those of similar drugs already
 in the List of Drugs. The Statute of the Catalogue Commission was approved by the
 Ministerial Board inMarch2005 and the Chairmanand 11members ofthe Commissionhave
 been appointed already. The Catalogue Commission is functioning as an advisory board to
 the Ministerof Health andhas its principal offices inthe Ministry of Health.

 22.      Condition3: Selective purchasing and contract monitoring capacity satisfactory to
 theBankhasbeendevelopedinthe Health InsuranceCompanies.

 23.      This condition has been met. Selective purchasing and contracting capacity has
 been developed in the Health Insurance Companies. Two companies - VSZP and Sideria -
 started to implement selective purchasing in 2004 while others have started this year. The
process of collection and analysis of relevant data for criteria selection has started and the
 first set ofresultsare expectedby the end ofthe year.

24.      Condition4: The Borrower has reduced the number of hospitals incurring debt by
twenty-five percent (25 percent) comparedto 2002.

25.      This condition has been met. Of the 46 health care facilities under review, eight
facilities had no new debts by 2004 (defined as outstanding arrears above S K K 1 million at
the endofthe year) and five facilities haddebts smaller than2002 levels.

26.      Condition5: The Health Care SurveillanceAuthority has become operational and i s
implementingits businessplan.

27.      This conditionhas been met. In September 2004, the Borrower's National Council
passed Act No. 578/2004 on healthcare providers, medical workers, professional
organizationsinthe health services and on the amendment and supplementingo fcertain laws,
which constitutes the legal framework for the Health Care Surveillance Authority (HCSA).
The Act became effective on January 1, 2005. HCSA became fully operational and
functioning in November 2004, and has begun to perform its regulatory functions. HCSA
also controls and supervises the legal and financial matters of the public health insurance
companies for the fulfillment of obligations established in the law and those that emanate
from the healthcontractswith beneficiaries.

28.      Condition6: The Borrower has developed, on the basis of a mapping exercise, an
implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank for rationalization of hospital capacity in the
districts of Bratislava, Kosice and BanskaBystrica.

29.      This condition has beenmet. The plansfor rationalization ofthe hospital capacity in
the districts ofBratislava, Kogice and BanskaBystrica, also called Restructuring Plans for the
respective districts, have been developedbasedon the results of the nation-wide assessment
of hospitals carried out by experts between October 2004 and February 2005. The mapping
and evaluation exercise covered all 44 state owned hospitals; 19 non-state hospitals also


                                              5

 participated in the exercise. The preparation o f the Restructuring Plans i s part o f a complex
 process o f rationalizing hospital capacity in Slovakia interlinkedwith the updated definition
 o f the MinimumPublic Network o fproviders andthe preparation o f the HealthRestructuring
 Fund (the financial tool for the realization of the rationalization and development plans
 prepared within the framework o fthe Hospital Master Plan - MinimumPublic Network). The
 Ministry o fHealth issued a Regulation on the MinimumNetwork ofHealthCare Providers in
 November 2004, which also has an impact on the Restructuring Plans in the three selected
 districts.

 30.     Condition 7: Seventy-five percent (75 percent) of hospitals in the districts of
 Bratislava, Kosice and Banska Bystrica have commenced operating as autonomous entities
 with self-governingboards.

 3 1.     This conditionhas been met. In September 2004, the Borrower's National Council
passed the six health Acts that formed the legislative basis o f the health care reforms in the
 country. This legislation, which became effective on January 1, 2005, envisages the
 transformation o f health insurance companies into joint-stock companies and health care
 facilities into either joint-stock companies or not-for-profit organizations. The process o f
 transformation o f health care providers under the governance o f the Ministry o f Health i s
covered by Articles 84 and 91 o f Act No. 578/2004 (on Health Care Providers, etc.). The
previous legislative status allowed for full autonomy o f the hospital directors, but was based
on the Law on Public Service. Under the new legislation, the autonomy i s based on the
Commercial Code while undergoing transformation from state-owned entities intojoint-stock
companies.

32.      Six hospitals in Bratislava have been combined into one faculty hospital, which has
become autonomous. Likewise, the specialized cardiology and oncology hospitals in
Bratislava, two general hospitals and one carlology hospital in Banska-Bystrica and two
general hospitals, one cardiology hospital and one oncology hospital in Kosice have also
become autonomous. With this, all hospitals (i.e., 100 percent) in the districts o f Bratislava,
Banska Bystrica and Kosice have become autonomous. The nature and extent o f hospital
autonomy as it stands today empowers the hospital directors to hire and fire their staff freely
(withinthe bounds laid down by the MinimumPersonnel Requirements)and to remunerate
them based on performance. Health facilities also have autonomy in procurement and can
choose what, how much and when they will procure as long as it i s within the fkamework o f
the Public Procurement Act. Health facilities enter into direct contracts with the health
insurance companies, and are authorized to retain their earnings from all business activities,
including from patient copayments.

33.      Condition 8: The Borrower has developed a concept and implementation plan for
social care and long term care, acceptable to the Bank.

34.      This condition has been met. A detailed and comprehensive concept,
implementation planand comparative study for social and long-term care has beendeveloped
andpublished. A draft law basedonthe above mentioned documents has also beenprepared.

35.      Condition 9: The Borrower is implementing a public information campaign in
support o fthe healthreform.




                                                6

36.     This conditionhas been met. The public information campaign beinginiplemented
by the Borrower includes conferences, workshops, prints, monitoring o f media, etc. in
support o f the health reform. Duringthe first year, the public information campaign produced
a large volume o f printed information materials (brochures, leaflets, posters) targeted to the
general public. These covered issues such as "Information for the Patients on Health Care
Fees," "The Rights of the Patients within the Reform Laws," "Get Informed on your
Pharmaceutical," and "Payments within the Health Care System." Materials targeted to
specialists and health care staff included "Health Care in the Slovak Republic Concept,"
"New Healthcare: News and Information," "New Healthcare: How It Will Be?," "Reform
Agenda: Health Reform in Slovakia," "The Analysis o f the Development until the Approval
o f Six Refomi Laws," "Slovak Reform o f Health Care: From Fees to Systemic Changes,"
"The State of Social and Long-term Care in Slovakia," a comparative study "Long-term Care
inOECD Countries and the System of Social Services in Slovakia," "Model for Long-term
Care for the Slovak Republic Based on the Integration o f Health Care and Social Care."
Selected materials were published inall importantnation-wide dailies and weeklies.

37.     Several conferences have also been organized as part of the public information
campaign, including an intemational conference on "New Healthcare as a Challenge and
Opportunity" and two conferences in cooperation with WHO on "Health Care Reform:
Strategic Purchase o f Health Care" and "National Medicine Policy: Pharmaco-economics as
Effective Tool for Practice." Several seminars and workshops for specialists have been
organized in cooperation with the Association o f Private Doctors and the Slovak Medical
Society. Inorder to establish a virtual information center, the Ministry o f Healthhas launched
aninternetportal www.novezdravotnictvo.sk and its English version www.newhealthcare.sk.

                                     V.      CONCLUSION

38.       In view o f the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the
program supported by the loan, the maintenance o f a satisfactory macroeconomic policy
framework, and the compliance with the specific conditions o f release referred to Section
2.02 (d) (11) o f the Loan Agreement, the Bank has informed the Borrower o f the availability
of the second tranche inthe amount of Euro 15 million.




                                              7

