Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7195-SK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Health Sector Modernization Support Sectoral Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 2, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7195-SK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 2, 2003, between the SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated  
April 7, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s health sector (hereinafter called the 
Program) through the promotion of fiscal sustainability and provision of quality health 
care services and financial protection for the population, declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
 
(B) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount from the Loan Account shall be 
made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is not 
the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan 
Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of 
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and  
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period; 
 
(c) 
“Health Care Surveillance Authority” and “HCSA” mean the institution 
for quality assurance, licensing, accreditation and overall supervision to be designed and 
established by the Borrower under Part B (v) of the Technical Assistance Loan 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined in paragraph (f) of this Section); 
 
(d) 
“Health Insurance Companies” means collectively all the companies 
licensed or to be licensed for the purpose of providing health insurance; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; and 
 
(f) 
 “Technical Assistance Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement 
(Health Sector Modernization Support Technical Assistance Project, Loan No. 7196-SK) 
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty-five million 
Euro (EUR 55,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d), of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of EUR 55,000,000 from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account:  
 
(I) 
unless the Bank has received the payment of the fee referred to 
in Section 2.04 of this Agreement;  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(II) 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from 
the Loan Account shall have reached the amount of fifteen 
million Euro (EUR 15,000,000), unless the Bank shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:  
 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of Program; 
 
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
and  
 
(C) 
that the actions described in Section I of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement have been taken.   
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (A), (B) and 
(C) above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof; and 
 
(III) 
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from 
the Loan Account shall have reached the amount of thirty million 
Euro (EUR 30,000,000), unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after 
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program; 
 
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; 
and 
 
(C) 
that the actions described in Section II of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement have been taken. 
 
If after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (A), (B) and 
(C) above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  Such fee shall be payable not later 
than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:           
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and      
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
(a)  Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each 
December 15 and June 15, the first such installment to be payable on the First (1st) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the sixth (6th)
 
Interest Payment Date 
following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each installment except 
for the last one shall be equal to one-sixth (1/6) of said Disbursed Amount.  The last 
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed 
Amount.  
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after June 15, 2009, the Borrower shall also 
pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of 
 
the Screen Rate.  
 
Section 2.09. 
(a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; and 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa.  
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is 
accepted 
by 
the 
Bank 
shall 
be 
considered 
a 
“Conversion”, 
as 
defined 
in                
Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02. 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Technical Assistance Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except only the effectiveness 
of the Loan Agreement.
 
Section 5.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
of the Slovak Republic 
Ul. Stefanovicova 5 
81782 Bratislava 
P.O. Box 82 
Slovak Republic 
 
Telex 
  Facsimile: 
 
21868 
  (421-2) 
5249-8065 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)   
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bratislava, Slovak Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
 
By 
/s/  Ivan Miklos 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Roger Grawe 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or worked 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728                        
728.43 
 
Tobacco processing 
 
machinery 
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Section I
.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (II) of this Agreement
1. 
The contribution of the health system to the general budget deficit has been 
reduced to one percent (1%) of GDP. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has developed mechanisms and institutional arrangements 
acceptable to the Bank for the inclusion of new treatment procedures and pharmaceuticals 
into the essential package of health services. 
 
3. 
Selective purchasing and contract monitoring capacity satisfactory to the Bank 
has been developed in the Health Insurance Companies.
 
4. 
The Borrower has reduced the number of hospitals incurring debt by twenty-five 
percent (25%) compared to 2002. 
 
5. 
The HCSA has become operational and is implementing its business plan. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has developed, on the basis of a mapping exercise, an 
implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank for rationalization of hospital capacity in the 
districts of Bratislava, Kosice and Banska Bystrica. 
 
7. 
Seventy-five percent (75%) of hospitals in the districts of Bratislava, Kosice and 
Banska Bystrica have commenced operating as autonomous entities with self-governing 
boards. 
 
8. 
The Borrower has developed a concept and implementation plan for social care 
and long term care, acceptable to the Bank. 
 
9. 
The Borrower is implementing a public information campaign in support of the 
health reform. 
 
Section II
.
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (III) of this Agreement
1. 
The contribution of the health care system to the general budget deficit has been 
reduced to seventy-five basis points (0.75%) of GDP. 
 
2. 
The number of hospitals incurring debts is reduced by fifty percent (50%) 
compared to 2002. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has adopted, tested and implemented at least four (4) clinical 
guidelines for primary health care and eight (8) guidelines for secondary care, all 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
4. 
The Borrower has implemented an agreed-upon plan for the rationalization of 
hospital capacity in the districts of Bratislava, Kosice and Banska Bystrica. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has taken all necessary steps to ensure that: (a) twenty-five percent 
(25%) of all surgeries is treated on a one-day surgery basis; and (b) the average length of 
stay is down by ten percent (10%) and the occupancy rate is up by twenty (20%) in acute 
care hospitals implementing the reforms compared to 2002. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has implemented hospital information systems acceptable to the 
Bank in fifty percent (50%) of the hospitals. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has undertaken an evaluation of the first two (2) years of the 
reforms, with special emphasis on patient access, equity and quality of care, and has 
compared the results of this analysis with the 2002 baseline for potential improvements, 
such undertakings done in accordance with the a methodology acceptable to the Bank. 
 
