Document of
The World Bank
Report No 22253-TP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12 6 MILLION
TO EAST TIMOR
FOR A
SECOND HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 29, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1)
Currency Unit = US Dollars
LC = US$1
US$1 = LC
FISCAL YEAR
1 July -- 30 June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMSE                       Autonomous Medical Supply Entity
AusAID                     Australian Agency for International Development
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CFET                       Consolidated Fund for East Timor
DHS                        Division of Health Services
EC                         European Commission
ECHO                       European Commission for Humanitarian Assistance
ETTA                       East Timor Transitional Administration
GPA                        Governance and Public Administration
HPMU                       Health Program Management Unit
HSRDP                      Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
HSRDP II                   Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
IDA                        International Development Association
IMCI                       Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
IHA                        Interim Health Authority
JAM                        Joint Assessment Mission
JICA                       Japan International Cooperation Agency
NGO                        Non Government Organization
OH                         Office of Health
TFET                       Trust Fund for East Timor
UNICEF                     United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA                      United Nations Population Fund
UNTAET                     United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
WHO                        World Health Organization
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ian P Morris



EAST TIMOR
SECOND HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    6
C. Project Description Summary
1 Project components                                                                    10
2 Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         12
3 Benefits and target population                                                        13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        14
D. Project Rationale
1 Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             15
2 Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     18
5 Value added of Bank support in this project                                           19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             19
2. Financial                                                                            20
3. Technical                                                                            21
4. Institutional                                                                        22
5. Environmental                                                                        22
6. Social                                                                               24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   26
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       26
2 Critical risks                                                                        27
3 Possible controversial aspects                                                        28



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            29
2. Other                                                                               29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          33
Annexes
Annex 1  Project Design Summary                                                           34
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description                                                     39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         46
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            47
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summnary     58
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        59
Annex 7. Project Processing Schedule                                                      74
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    76
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             79
MAP(S)
IBRD 30626



EAST TIMOR
Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
SASHP
Date: June 29, 2001                               Team Leader: Ian P. Morris
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland           Sector Manager/Director: Maureen Law
Project ID: P072648                               Sector(s): HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ I Credit    [X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        0 00           U.00          0.00
EUROPEAN COMMISSION (EC)                                        1.74           7 10          8 83
SPECIAL FINANCING                                               1.60          11 00         12.60
Total:                                                          3.34          18 09         21.43
Borrower: E. TIMOR
Responsible agency: UN TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (UNTAET)
Implementing Agency: Division of Health Services
Address c/o UN Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET)
Contact Person. Dr. Jim Tulloch
Tel (61) 407 802 749           Fax (61) 889463901/2             Email ethpmu@ntisp com or
tullochj@un.org
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003        2004
Annual    8.50       10.80       2.13
Cumulative    8.50       19.30     21.43
Project implementation period: Expected Effectiveness Date. July 31, 2001. Expected Closing Date March 31,
2004.
OCS PADFll. - e    ts   X



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the health program is to rehabilitate and develop a cost-effective and financially
sustainable health system in East Timor to be responsive to the immediate basic health needs of the
population and, within a well integrated and sustainable policy framework, to prepare the health system to
meet future needs.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for the overall health program for East Timor over the next two years
include several indicators established for the first project - in some cases refined - as well as indicators of
progress under the second project. They are:
June 01 June 02 June 03
1     Children under I year immunized (in each district) more than.
a) DPT3                                                         20%   30%    50%
b) Measles                                                      20%   30%   50%
2      Births with skilled attendance at birth more than:
a) nationally                                                  20%    25%    35%
b) in each district                                             4%    10%   20%
3.     Population with access to:
a) basic health services within 2 hours from home more than:   60%   90%   95%
b) inpatient services within two hours from a source of
basic health services more than:                             40%    70%    80%
4      Health facilities in district health plans appropriately utilized:
number of outpatient visits per capita per annum more than      1      2      2.5
5.     Health facilities reporting no stock outs of essential drugs
lasting more than 2 weeks in the previous quarter              60%    90%   90%
6.     Draft health sector policy paper discussed with stakeholders and completed by June 2002
7.     Revised regulations on pharmaceuticals:
a) draft prepared by June 2002
b) regulations issued by June 2003
8.     Human resource management and development plan adopted by June 2002
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:            Date of latest CAS discussion: No CAS has been prepared.
No CAS has been prepared for East Timor as yet, but strategic direction for the Bank has been developed
-2 -



in several documents, most recently in the Transitional Support Strategy of the World Bank Group (Report
No. 21184-TP, November 2000). The strategy defines priorities and an approach, giving rise to the five
key objectives presented in brief below:
A. Selection of activities for World Bank Support-
(i) in the short term, focus on basics: protection of the poor, private sector recovery, health and education,
(ii) as the transition to independence approaches, assist the Government and East Timorese civil society to
debate post-independence policy decisions by providing research and capacity building in key policy areas,
B. Ways in which the World Bank works.
(iii) build local ownership of the development process at all levels;
(iv) foster effective donor coordination; and
(v) sequence interventions well in order to match program implementation with institutional
capacity-building.
The Transitional Support Strategy builds on one year of international support to the rehabilitation and
development of East Timor, which was devastated in the violence that followed the August 31, 1999 vote
for independence from Indonesia. The Bank's involvement in East Timor began early in 1999, with the
allocation of responsibility for forward planning in the territory to the Papua New Guinea and Pacific
Islands Country Unit, and it was thus well placed to play a coordinating role in the international response to
the post-referendum conflict. The Bank led the Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) of October 1999 which
identified eight priority sectors and provided first estimates of external financing needs This donor support
is taking place through the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET)
established by Security Council Resolution 1272 (S/RES/1272) on October 25, 1999 UNTAET is
expected to continue until January 2002 by which time it will have prepared the transition to Independence.
Funding for the UNTAET effort is provided through: (i) a $31 million UNTAET trust fund, financed from
assessments on UN member states, which supports UNTAET's administrative costs, (ii) a $126 million
short-term humanitarian pledge; and (iii) a $146 million medium term development trust fund (Trust Fund
for East Timor (TFET) pledge that is managed by IDA (see below). TFET is supported by a coalition of
donors, and provides funding in one year tranches For health, TFET includes an estimate of $38 million
for a three phase program. Significant additional resources for health are provided through bilateral and
NGO contributions, and among the donors Australia, Portugal, the European Commission (EC) and Japan
have participated in project design and supervision. In July 2000, the process of "Timorization" of the
transitional governing structure began with the formation of the East Timor Transitional Administration
(ETTA) and the appointment of a Cabinet with five Timorese Ministers -- including a Minister responsible
for Social Affairs (which includes responsibility for Health). ETTA has management and implementation
responsibility on behalf of UNTAET which remains the legal body responsible for the Government of East
Timor.
The health sector program is fully consistent with the objectives of the Transition Strategy. It is supported
by the on-going first Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project (HSRDP) which became
effective in July 2000, and by the current project (HSRDP II) to be financed jointly from the TFET and
specific project support from the EC. The projects aim to meet immediate basic needs, while supporting
the development of a framework for longer term health policy and systems development, and assumption of
responsibility by the East Timorese. The health projects' objectives are also consistent with the strategic
thrust of the Bank's HNP Sector Strategy (1997) and the HNP Strategy for East Asia and Pacific Region
- 3 -



(2000) which both aim to: (i) improve the health outcomes of the poor, (ii) enhance the performance of a
country's health system; and (iii) ensure sustainable health care financing. The strategies emphasize the
need to encourage, build and sustain partnerships between clients, development partners, civil society and
health stakeholders (including NGOs) to improve development effectiveness. They also - particularly the
East Asia and Pacific Strategy - underline the importance of country-specific approaches and the need to
maintain policy dialogue as well as selective operational support for key HNP reforms within countries
with a significant unfinished health agenda.
The country specific needs of East Timor are obviously unique. Always one of the poorest regions in
Indonesia before the referendum, the country continues to face the need for extensive rebuilding and
rehabilitation, while at the same time establishing its political, economic and social structures and planning
for longer term development. Even before the disturbances the territory lagged behind the rest of Indonesia
in most social indicators, and 30 percent of the population lived below the poverty line - twice the national
average Per capita incomes were estimated to be $210 in 2000 -- 40 to 50 percent below its 1996 level. In
the violence, over 70% of basic infrastructure was destroyed, including health infrastructure, the
institutions of the state suffered total collapse, and a strong cadre of East Timorese public sector mnanagers
is not yet in place. Communication and transport continue to be difficult, the institutional framework for
project implementation and financial control while improving, remains in need of strengthening, and the
need for effective coordination of the large inflow of foreign aid is great.
As a consequence of the disturbances the economy was hit by a dramatic supply shock caused primarily by
the destruction or looting of local inventories of manufactured goods, the closing of the border with West
Timor, and the lack of civilian access to ports. The physical infrastructure and equipment in every bank
was destroyed or looted, and financial systems nation wide broke down. Commerce within East Timor has
re-started, though it is constrained by small port capacity, and communication difficulties (mail and courier
services remain unreliable and land-line telephone services almost non-existent). There are also only
limited financial services -- although the situation is improving in Dili. The presence of many international
NGOs, and the international staff of UNTAET is creating something of a dual market. IMF staff estimates
indicate real GDP grew 15 percent in 2000 and projections for 2001 and 2002 indicate a growth rate of 15
percent will be sustained through 2002. This would indicate that per capita incomes are growing.
Nevertheless, East Timor remains a low income country and will not have restored income levels to
pre-disturbance levels during the project period. The dual nature of the economy developing as a
consequence of the intemational presence and initial reconstruction efforts involving large infusions of
external resources would suggest East Timorese per capita income levels will not be growing as fast as the
average.
It is against this background that the proposed health project supports the main objectives of the Trust
Fund for East Timor.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main challenges in the health sector were identified in preparation of the first project, conceived of as
the first phase in a three year program of support. Chief among them are the following:
Rebuilding a shattered health system: service delivery. In the violence that followed the referendum,
75% of health infrastructure was destroyed or badly damaged. Most of the senior health managers and
doctors left the country. NGOs came in during the emergency period to re-establish access to health
care but access to preventive services such as immunization was almost non-existent. There was thus
an urgent need for reconstruction and rehabilitation of many health facilities - though not all, given the
-4 -



overcapacity in the previous system - for establishing a health authority, for recruitment, deployment
and training of staff, and for restoration of basic services. A transitional strategy was developed under
which NGOs became lead service providers in the district, and carried out services according to district
health plans agreed with the transitional government. Considerable progress was made in increasing
access, but utilization is low, the construction program is only just about to get underway, and civil
service recruitment is only just complete. Much therefore, remains to be done.
Rebuilding a shattered health system: policy and systems development. Development of the system
over the long term will require a clear health policy. Though East Timor is in a unique position to
formulate and apply health policies and legislation suited to its particular needs, the exigencies of
establishing a new constitution and a new government have prevented legislative action to date. Some
progress has been made in the health sector, particularly with regard to establishing a decision- making
process, but most of the factors that drove planning for policy and systems development in the first
project still apply - in particular the need to consider and try out different options, and to address
policy development within an overall policy framework that shows clearly how the various pieces fit
together.
The health system was inefficient before the referendum. despite extensive infrastructure and over
staffing, health status was poor, and utilization low. UN figures estimated life expectancy at below 50
in 1995. Public health services such as water and sanitation were also limited. Considerable access to
health services is being provided under the first project, but low utilization remains a significant
concern. Improving the quality of care and health system capacity to provide that care are major
needs, as is strengthening demand through health promotion and community involvement.
Heavy Reliance on NGOs. With the collapse of the government health care system, NGOs (mostly
international) became the main service providers together with East Timorese staff on temporary
stipends financed by the Consolidated Fund for East Timor (CFET), under agreement with the DHS
(The Church and religious charities operate clinics and some small hospitals, as they have done for
many years, and the coffee cooperatives also have their own health facilities). Under the agreements
with the DHS, and the district health plans, access to first level curative care and to preventive services
was increased. During this time, NGOs received resources from their own organizations, the
European Commission's Humanitarian Office (ECHO) and the first health project. This funding
enabled the NGOs to employ expatriate staff, including doctors. East Timor itself has very few doctors
- currently about 20. However, the costs of supporting the NGO presence is high, and unsustainable
at current levels. In addition, while the NGOs have been invaluable during the first year of the
program, there is a natural pressure for "Timorization" of district health management.
Dependence on Donor Assistance. East Timor is heavily dependent on donor support, and will be for
the next several years. Although the main channels for donor support have been the UNTAET trust
fund, CFET and TFET, several donors (particularly AusAID), the United Nations Technical Agencies
(WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA) and NGOs have also provided financial and technical support. The
health sector has adopted a sector wide approach to both donor coordination and program development
But with the prospective reduction in the importance of TFET (or other joint donor financing
arrangements for the development program) and the increasing size of bilateral and projectized support,
donor coordination in support of the agreed program will become increasingly important - to minimize
demands on DHS, to ensure assistance to the sector is guided by an overall strategy and to minimize
the risk that projects and technical assistance programs not within the strategic framework will not
jeopardize future development (e.g., un-programmed investments in hospital care that incur high
running costs). The implications for recurrent costs of all planned investments is an issue for all
- 5-



donors - not just those involved in supporting the Sector Wide Approach.
Sustainable Resourcing of the Health Sector. East Timor continues to face a major challenge to
rebuild and develop a health system which is financially sustainable in the medium to longer term. One
implication of the adoption of a sector wide approach to the redevelopment of the health sector is that it
enables health authorities to monitor the incremental recurrent costs arising from the financing of new
capital programs and donor financed projects. It is very important that this is monitored by all parties
to ensure activities started can be financed in the longer term. The current estimate of the total
incremental recurrent costs arising from approved projects is $2.2 million over the next 3 years.
Estimates of the recurrent budget available to health in FY02 are about $7.5 million. This would need
to rise to about $9.5 million in FY04 or about 30 percent. This is significant but remains feasible with
total recurrent costs for health rising from II percent of the total recurrent budget in FY02 to 13
percent of the expected total recurrent budget in FY04.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A major issue that runs throughout the choices below is the question of balance. Getting the balance
right between short term and longer term needs - between urgent restoration of services and policy
development, and between basic health care and hospital care is a continuing challenge.
Another choice has been to maintain the overall direction incorporated in the three phase program
supported by the first project. The fundamental logic of the program - to put in place the minimum
necessary to meet urgent needs, while retaining flexibility for future policy and systems development
decisions, is sound. The project is now moving to extend and improve the quality of those services, and
to provide continued support to the policy and systems development process.
- 6 -



Issue                   Strategic choices
Rebuilding a shattered    A primary strategic program choice made early in 2000 by the East Timorese
health care system:     Health Professionals Working Group was the decision not to re-establish the
service delivery        pre-1999 health system. This system was chronically under-funded, with
public subsidies (expenditures) that were not pro-poor, and which tried to
support too much infrastructure and staff without other essential quality
enhancing inputs (drugs, equipment etc.). The first health project supported
the establishment of appropriately located community health centers and
mobile clinics to re-establish health care access and the rebuilding of critical
public health programs including immunization and health promotion.
To ensure that improved access results in increased utilization the second
project has identified the following areas crucial to improved quality of care:
hospital services, more attention to certain elements of the basic package;
health information systems; and capacity building broadly defined.
Without referral to hospital care, the first level has limited credibility, and
quality of care is reduced. Although much remains to be done at the first
level, the three year time horizon for donor funding through TFET, and the
need to rationalize hospital services, have made rehabilitation and
reconstruction of a sustainable hospital sector (in financial and human
resource terms) the main choice for civil works in the second project.
Elements of the basic package needing attention are communicable disease
control, immunization/Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI),
reproductive health and health promotion. The project will also support
development of a health and management information system (see policy and
systems below)
Capacity building in diverse areas is needed to strengthen skills in different
parts of the system: human resource development, management, service
provision, community mobilization, and communications strategy
- 7 -



Rebuilding a shattered    The project aims to encourage a more integrated systems approach to the
health care system:    definition and implementation of health sector policy and programs. The
policy and systems     project will work on supporting systems development in a few key areas, rather
development           than attempting to address the full range of health problems. For example, to
provide adequate reproductive care - in particular maternity care - involves the
need to think through the whole continuum of care from community to tertiary
level, and what needs to be in place to make that system work.
Other areas - or functions - selected for emphasis in systems development are:
(a) community mobilization; (b) strengthened support systems, including
referral systems; and (c) improving health and management information
systems.
The project will also support the district health planning and management
process, as described under "Heavy Reliance on NGOs" (see below)
For health policy development, there is a big risk if a health policy framework is
imposed without adequate consultation. Many countries have good policy
papers, but they do not reflect reality The best option is to allow some time for
building capacity and conducting needed studies and analytic work, as well as
employing a wide consultative process. However, there are some urgent policy
choices that need to be made fairly soon to minimize distortion of future
development of the system. The issue of how to deal with the emerging private
sector - formal or informal, for profit and non-profit - is one such urgent need.
Heavy reliance on      The unsustainable level of support to NGOs, and the growing pressure to put
NGOs                   East Timorese managers in charge of the district health planning process
makes strategic decisions necessary about the role of NGOs. The choices are
(a) full resumption of responsibility immediately by East Timorese district
managers; (b) full resumption of responsibility, but with establishment of
management advisers to the central DHS whose main function would be
district support; or (c) encourage a change in the role of the NGOs to
providing support to the new district teams, with benchmarks for handing over
responsibility. Given the cost of supporting the NGO presence, and the recent
appointment of the district management teams, (b) is the option chosen. The
management advisers will each cover the whole country, providing specialized
support in various key dimensions. Given the small size of the country
(850,000 population) this should provide a more cost-effective solution to the
need to support the new district teams than the district based altemative. The
management advisers however, could be individuals, or personnel of
development NGOs or management consulting firms with relevant experience.
The expense of expatriate doctors until now recruited by the international
NGOs will be reduced by recruiting them from other developing countries
and/or encouraging expatriate East Timorese doctors to return.
-8-



Dependence on donors   The danger that dependence on donors will result in loss of strategic control by
government of its health program, is lessened by the adoption of a Sector Wide
Approach. This works at two levels: first it encourages definition of health
needs across the board - service delivery, rehabilitation of the health
infrastructure, health systems and health policy development, and identification
of the resources and source of resources necessary to support them, and second,
it facilitates coordination of donor financing, and assistance from the UN
technical agencies in support of the agreed program This is the approach
chosen by the project.
Recurrent Resources    The project aims to encourage the development of a financially sustainable
health system. The adoption of a sector wide approach assists in the
coordination of the development program in support of the agreed sector
strategy (as it evolves) and most importantly the documentation of the
incremental recurrent costs arising from investments and policy decisions in a
medium term framework. This is supported by the development of a program
budget structure within East Timor for the health sector which shows total
expenditures for all activities and their sources of finance. An altemative
choice would have been to maximize capital investments in the short term
without concem for medium term financial sustainability of the health system.
-9-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Component 1: Support On-going      Primary Health,     3.52      16.4       3.52      28 0
Service Delivery                  Including
Reproductive
This component will support (a)    Health
continued service delivery through the
provision of technical assistance to the
new district health management teams
in the development and
implementation of the district health
plans, and by drawing on the support
of the specialized technical agencies,
and (b) provision of pharmaceuticals
to health facilities, including hospitals
The component ensures basic services,
selected high priority activities,
pharmaceuticals and logistics systems
and essential hospital care.
- 10 -



Component 2. Improve the Range and   Hospitals,        14.79       69.0      5.95       47.3
Quality of Services, and Develop and    Secondary &
Implement Supporting Systems        Tertiary
The second component will support
improvements in the quality of services
with particular emphasis on
standardizing and enhancing the quality
of delivery of the basic package of
services including reproductive health,
developing communicable disease
surveillance and control (i.e., for
diseases with epidemic potential or
other public health importance),
developing health promotion activities,
and addressing environmental health
issues.
A major activity will be strengthening
referral systems and a rational hospital
system. The project will therefore
assist the rehabilitation/reconstruction,
refurbishing and equipping of hospitals,
an urban community health center, the
Central Medical Laboratory, and
communications and transport. A
communications network will be
established, and assistance provided to
driver training and vehicle maintenance.
Technical assistance will be provided to
the building up of supporting systems
such as laboratory services, and
pharmaceuticals and medical supply
systems.



Component 3: Develop and Implement  Primary Health      2 72       12.7       2 72      21.6
Health Sector Policy and Management
Systems
Health policy development will include
conducting a Demographic and Health
Survey to provide information on which
to base policy; and assistance to
capacity development in the
formulation and promulgation of
policy, and its implementation.
An important sub-component will be
support to the development and
implementation of a Human Resource
Management Strategy which includes
training and all other aspects of human
resource management.
Systems management will be
strengthened by the development of a
health and management information
system, by the re-establishment of
administrative infrastructure and
processes at central and district level,
and by management training and
capacity building. The project also
provides for audits
The component will also support the
Health Program Management Unit's
(PMU) running costs, including training
for East Timorese staff in financial
management and procurement
Contingency                                             0.40        1.9       0.40       3 2
Total Project Costs                   21 43     100 0      12 59      100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                    21.43      100.0      12 59     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*   Ensure that health system development is guided by clear policy for the future of the health sector in
East Timor and that the DHS is in a position to present the a newly Independent Government of East
Timor with a coherent set of policies and strategy options;
*   Ensure the anticipated overall medium term health expenditure program is financially and
institutionally sustainable including the development and implementation of a program to rehabilitate
the hospital sector that meets core health needs (e g., emergency obstetric care) but is sustainable
- 12 -



financially and in human resource terms;
*   Ensure that public expenditures on health are targeted to: (a) improve access to the poor, particularly in
rural areas; and (b) to health services which have strong "public good" and "high positive externality"
characteristics and other areas that justify government interventions (e g., market failures);
*   Institute mechanisms for community participation in the choices about their health care and provision
of information to consumers of health services;
*   Assist in the creation of capacity to maintain oversight over policies in other sectors that affect health
outcomes;
*   Continue support for the Autonomous Medical Supply Entity, responsible to government but run on
commercial lines by non-government employees;
*   Support the continuation of the Sector Wide Approach;
*   Specialized support to district health management and service delivery.
3. Benefits and target population:
The situation with regard to expected benefits, and beneficiary populations remains much the same for the
second project as for the first Except in a few urban areas and perhaps rural areas with significant cash
cropping, poverty is very wide-spread. Though IMF staff estimates GDP is now growing at 15 percent
per annum total GDP remains well below pre-emergency levels. Per capita incomes were estimated at only
$210 per annum one year ago and it is doubtful that incomes of the poor have been growing as fast as GDP
given the dual nature of the recovery. East Timor was one of the poorest provinces in Indonesia, and
remains one of the poorest countries in the world.
The whole population will benefit from the restoration of health services, and from the development of a
sustainable and efficient health system, that is able to fulfill its commitment of ensuring access to the poor.
Though an important emphasis of the second project is hospitals, the support is to rationalization of
hospital services, in which there is currently over-capacity -- the legacy of the Indonesian system -- and
unregulated provision of emergency care by the NGOs. The second project will support the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of hospitals as recommended by a hospital assessment funded under the first project -
which will take into account the resources available to East Timor. It is important to see hospitals as an
integral part of the health system, to reduce the risk of ignoring that part of the system that tends to draw
most heavily on the recurrent health budget, leading to under-funding of basic health care at the community
level. This has been an important lesson from Bank supported primary health care projects of the 1980s.
Maternity care, and child health (immunization and IMCI), priorities under the first project, have been
identified as needing increased attention under the second. Women of reproductive age (15 to 49), and
children under 5, who represent 23 percent and 15 percent of the population respectively should benefit
significantly. Even under the Indonesian system when there were government services providing family
planning, ante natal care, assistance at delivery and some post natal care, and immunization services -
fertility and child mortality were high UN figures estimate the Total Fertility Rate at between 4 and 5
children per woman, and the under 5 mortality rate may be as high as 200 per thousand. The planned
demographic and health survey should yield a firmer baseline figure.
An additional benefit of the project is that in contributing to the recovery of the health sector, the
construction of health centers and hospitals, and employment of staff should also contribute to the recovery
of the economy as a whole.
- 13 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. The project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003 -- an
implementation period of 27 months.
Project Management. Overall coordination of the health program is with the DHS in the ETTA, the
institution established by UNTAET to manage and implement government programs. The health program is
financed through a sector wide approach, which comprises funding drawn from CFET, TFET, the
UNTAET trust fund, multilateral and bi-lateral sources The project is funded by TFET and, under an
agreement to be finalized with the EC, construction and provision of medical equipment for reconstructed
and new hospitals is expected to be jointly funded by the EC and TFET. The agreement between TFET and
the EC is expected to be finalized by March 15, 2002 The Health Program Management Unit, (PMU) is
directly responsible for implementation of the TFET funded project, and the EC/TFET jointly funded
construction and provision of medical equipment for the rehabilitation and new hospital component.
The PMU Program Manager reports to the Cabinet Minister for Social Affairs through the Head of DHS
who is also the Director of the PMU. The Program Manager, who is responsible for the day to day
management of the PMU is supported by TFET funded staff in the positions of a Finance Officer,
counterpart to the Head Sub-Division of Finance, Administration, Logistics and Procurement, a
Procurement Officer, counterpart to the Head of the Logistics and Procurement Section, and a Senior
Procurement Advisor, on periodic assignment, overseeing procurement planning and management within
the PMU The appointment of a Health Policy and Management Specialist is a condition of Grant
effectiveness and the continuation of the each of these positions are implementation conditions for the
proposed project.
In addition to the above PMU staff the PMU has international consultants in the positions of; Public Health
Officer, Coordinator for Health Policy, a Civil Affairs and Construction Officer, an Implementation
Officer, an NGO Liaison Officer, a Vector Control Officer, an STD/HIV/AIDS Advisor, a Reproductive
Health Officer, and international counterparts to the Heads of the Central Laboratory and Central
Pharmacy reporting to him. These positions are not funded by the project and are financed by
UNTAET/ETTA, and/or drawn form the UN Volunteer Corps.
Disbursement Arrangements. The proposed project is expected to disburse over a period of 30 months
from the date of effectiveness. Disbursement will be either by direct payment (for individual payments of
US$ 200,000 equivalent or more), or through the Special Account to be established with a commercial
bank. All disbursements against contracts for Goods costing US$ 200,000 equivalent or more, Works
costing US$ 300,000 equivalent or more, and Consulting Service contracts with firms for US$ 100,000
equivalent or more or with individuals for US$ 50,000 equivalent or more, will be fully documented under
standard prior review procedures, as will all single source contracts regardless of value. All other
payments, including those for operating costs, training / fellowships and workshops below the above
thresholds will be made against certified Statement of Expenses, SOEs. Documentation supporting SOE
disbursements will be retained by the Division of Health Services for a minimum of one year after receipt
by the Association of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made To facilitate
the payment of minor costs (below US$ 3,000) the PMU will maintain an imprest account of up to US$
10,000 under the procedures established and agreed with the Association for HSRDP. The Association will
conduct a review of SOEs half-yearly
Financial Management. A Finance Officer with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association, is in place funded under HSRDP and the position will be continued under the proposed
- 14 -



project. The PMU Financial Unit will have primary responsibility for the financial management of the
program. The PMU Finance Unit will carry out financial planning, sector wide budgeting, accounting and
reporting functions for the program. The Financial Officer will report to the PMU Program Manager. The
Financial Officer will support East Timorese colleagues appointed to the positions of Head, Sub-Division
of Finance, Administration, Logistics and Procurement and Head of the Finance Section. The UNTAET
Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) will provide overall guidance and supervision of the PMU Financial Unit to
ensure that functions are carried out in accordance with the agreed guidelines. The primary responsibility
for maintaining accounting records for the project will be with the PMU Finance Officer. The PMU
Finance Unit with the guidance of the CFA have established, under HSRDP, accounting and internal
control procedures for authorizing payments, recording of all project related expenditures, periodic
financial reporting and preparation of annual financial statements for external audit, the arrangements will
be continued for the proposed project. The accounting system maintains separate project accounts for
TEFT funded activities in accordance with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. These procedures will be
expanded to cover the proposed EC/TFET funded activities in March 2002. The PMU Finance Officer
will ensure that quarterly and annual financial reports comparing budgeted and actual expenditures are
prepared for the proposed project. The formats of the reports are the same as those agreed for HSRDP,
and will be revised and expanded to detail accounting and reporting procedures agreed between the EC and
TFET for the construction and provision of medical equipment for new hospitals. The financial reports
shall be prepared and submitted to the Association no later than 30 days following the end of the
quarter.
Audit. The CFA will be responsible to carry out internal auditing of the project activities. The PMU will
prepare annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited by an independent extemal
auditor acceptable to the Association. The auditor will be required to provide an opinion on the financial
statements, the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawals from the grant based on statements
of expenditures (SOEs) The Autonomous Medical Supply Entity established under HSRDP I as an
independent entity, and operated under commercial principles by a comnnercial contractor will also be
audited annually by the independent auditor. The audit will also cover expenditure under the EC/TFET
agreement for the reconstructed and new hospital construction and the provision of medical equipment
components of the project. The independent auditor will be appointed on terms of reference acceptable
to the Association.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Option 1: Rebuild the old system: This is perhaps the easiest option that East Timor could choose.
However, as discussed above, the previous system had many limitations and did not provide the desired
quality services, especially to those in remote areas and the poor. The DHS decided against this model
from the beginning, accepting the January 2000 advice of the East Timor Health Professionals Working
Group that "The facilities or service provided in East Timor were based on a standard that was not relevant
to local population needs, situation and/or capacity to maintain. This legacy is evidenced in the high ratio
of facilities to the population served as well as the presence of facilities that are unnecessary or too costly
to maintain".
- 15 -



Option 2: Address immediate needs through the delivery of basic services, and leave policy development
until later. This option was not favored, as concentrating only on the short term could lead to a patchwork
of unsustainable services, and constrain future policy options.
Option 3: Concentrate only on health policy and system development, and leave service delivery until
decisions have been made on overall direction and the package of services. In a country as devastated as
East Timor, it would not be advisable, either from a health or political standpoint to delay addressing the
urgent needs of the population until the health policy options are decided upon.
Option 4. Balancing the short and medium to long term. This is the option chosen for project designi
(a) restoring access to basic health services while retaining sufficient flexibility that future development of
policy and the health system would not be distorted; and (b) making a start on addressing the major policy
issues on which East Timor will have to decide. This approach protects basic services while providing the
technical inputs needed for policy development. The approach also allows for a wide consultative process
that will ensure higher ownership and participation in the development of policy. It also enables DHS to
have a set of policy and strategy options based on professional analysis to present to the newly Independent
Government for consideration when it is established
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Shattered health care system      Health Sector Rehabilitation      S             S
and Development Project (1)
Low demand for health services:   Second Community                  S             S
mechanism for conumunity involvement Empowerment Project
Poor nutrition status             Agriculture Rehabilitation        S             S
Project
Other development agencies
Shattered infrastructure - need for  ADB. Transport Project
transport for referral system,
supervision and drugs and equipment
supply
Health promotion; poor public health   ADB. Water and Sanitation
services contributing to high incidence  Project
of diarrhea, and vector borne disease
IP/DO Ratings HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from other post-conflict countries include.
*   Need to take advantage of technical agency inputs to the formulation and development of health sector
needs and policy;
*   Need to develop a clear conceptual framework to guide health system development as countries emerge
from conflict;
*   Need to establish processes to involve a wide range of stakeholders in a participatory and transparent
process of identifying needs and priorities and considering altemative models and approaches to health
system development;
*   Need to take into account limited implementation experience of many of the agencies in a post-conflict
situation to finance, provide and oversee health service provision;
*   Need to evaluate interventions to ensure more good than harm results, and that resources are used as
equitably and efficiently as possible.
Lessons from health sector development programs in other countries (Largely drawn from OED 1999.
Investing in Health: Development Effectiveness in the Health, Nutrition and Population Sector.)
*   the most complex projects are found in countries with the least implementation capacity;
*   project documentation provides numerous examples of suggested indicators, without assessment of
country capacity to provide them;
*   progress towards development objectives is rarely a focus of supervision;
*   institutional assessment is weak; and
*   the need to look at the sector as an integrated whole. Bank projects in the 1980s focused on primary
health care to the exclusion of the hospital sector, until it was realized that this was leading to ignoring
that part of the health sector responsible for most of the uncontrolled growth in health budgets
Lessons from the ongoing East Timor Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Program
*   the difficulties of implementation in a post-conflict situation where the structures and processes of
government are still being established. The first project was negotiated with UNTAET. A few months
later ETTA was established as the management and implementation arm of UNTAET and as the
forerunner of the independent government structure, with a cabinet covering specific program/sector
areas. Health is part of the Department of Social Affairs within ETTA. Considerable uncertainty
arose about the extent of devolution of legal responsibilities and authority from UfNTAET to ETTA
with respect to project matters - in all sectors. One lesson is that procedures established at negotiation
should be retained until new procedures are agreed by all. Another derives from the fact that for the
health project management unit was coterminous with the DHS. This gave some advantages: it
minimized the levels of bureaucracy and allowed work on the program as a whole to continue: the
Project Director, the Finance Officer and the Procurement Specialist were the same for the DHS and
for the project, no matter whether DHS was reporting to UNTAET or to ETTA.
*   the need for those concemed with longer term reconstruction and development issues to also provide
input into building the structures of government What is done for example on civil service issues has
tremendous long-term impact on the sectors: in health the decision to make all health workers civil
servants right down to drivers and cleaners immediately, and not through contracting in the short term,
risks limiting service delivery options and manpower planning in the longer term. Despite the
provisions for review of performance, intemational experience indicates that once in position, civil
service changes are hard to make, and so the choices now made will influence gender balance, skills
- 17-



mix, and qualifications/certification for many years.
*   more consideration of ways to stimulate community involvement - not just through representation on
committees, where all sectors are trying to do the same thing - but exploring innovative ways that
provide incentives to both the community and service providers for engagement.
*   a positive lesson is drawn from policy development. Here technical assistance in defining major
decisions for setting the policy framework and in establishing a logical step-by-step process for that
decision-making has fully engaged the relevant East Timorese staff within DHS and with other health
stakeholders. The two international staff directly involved provide technical advice only the East
Timorese members of the central DHS in consultation with DHS staff from the districts, and with
representatives of other stakeholders, take the decisions. The discussions are in Tetun, and when the
time for taking the decision comes, the international staff leave the room. This process is producing
strong ownership.
Some of the implications for first project design that were successful, or are still desirable in the second
project are:
*   Selection of a few key indicators, and the focus on these in the twice a year joint donor supervision
missions. (The quarterly monitoring reports from district providers require reporting on these
indicators);
* Greater integration of key technical agencies into sector development, and support to systems planning,
building the technical support e.g., on training, or disease surveillance into DHS systems more broadly;
* Continued support of the process of health policy development. The second project makes provision
for study tours and training to provide increased international perspective on some of these key issues
* Building implementation capacity in a few essential systems areas: e.g., strengthening maternity care
which involves the continuum of care from the community to referral to tertiary level services, and is
thus a litmus test for the whole system;
*   Adequate support to DHS/PMU. The second project will support a health policy specialist and regular
technical assistance from a senior procurement specialist.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The most important indication of borrower commitment to the project has been the preparation of a work
program by the East Timorese staff in the various units of the DHS. This became the basis of a program
management plan and budget that identifies all health program activities. The budget indicates what is
supported through TFET funding, and counterpart funding (CFET) for both project activities, and the other
elements of the program that detennine its overall effectiveness - e.g., for drugs, salaries etc. Information
on bilateral support, chiefly from AusAID and support from the UN agencies -- particularly WHO,
UNICEF and UNFPA -- to agreed priorities is also provided. This budget has been discussed and
approved by the National Council, and incorporated in the Consolidated Budget for East Timor drawn up
by the Central Fiscal Authority in consultation with the National Council
This program budget also indicates commitment to the Sector Wide Approach - and puts DHS in a strong
position to coordinate future donor assistance to an agreed program. The budget shows activities
supported under the existing project (and wider program), and also indicates the support needed under the
second project.
A third indication is the exemplary reporting to the joint supervision missions - with full reporting on
project activities, using the work program format, allowing for clear updating on progress and problems.
The DHS has also established monitorable indicators for each program activity - again part of the program
- 18-



management plan.
The experience of planning the work program and the budget resulted in DHS suggesting a change in the
structure of the new project, with re-organized project components. The present project design reflects
these changes - but the program management system put in place by DHS allows for those activities
supported in both projects to be followed across both projects.
Finally, the strong ownership and commitment of the East Timorese Health Policy Working Group to the
development of a health policy and strategy document bodes well for recipient commitment and ownership
to the strategic objectives of the project. This will provide professional East Timorese ownership of health
policy options to be presented to a newly independent government.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA brings considerable experience in post-conflict situations, and considerable experience of working in
health in poor countries of East Asia to the second health project
It has also brought considerable experience in the sector wide approach in health, and mechanisms for joint
financing of an agreed program. This reduces the risk that donors will follow their own priorities, leading
to a "projectized" approach which is difficult for government to coordinate. This experience has helped
bring consistency to the approach, despite some pressures for separate bilateral projects, and may well
assure some forms of joint financing in the future. The proposed joint financing of the project by the EC is
a reflection of this
The policy dialogue leading to adoption and now strong endorsement of the sector wide approach by DHS,
and the support to budget analysis that helps understanding of the macro economic situation in which the
health sector is operating, are further contributions from the Bank.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million, ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project is designed as the second phase financing of a three phase program of assistance by the
international community to reconstruct the health system of East Timor. The three phase program,
estimated to cost about $38 million over 3-4 years, was based on a multi-donor Joint Assessment Mission
(JAM) in November 1999. This report identified the immediate provision of health care and the
development of health policy as the sector's two key priorities. This was to be achieved through: (a)
restoration of primary health care services at the sub-district level, (b) re-establishment of inpatient
services; (c) re-establishment of a central health authority that will ultimately become the country's ministry
of health; and (d) health manpower capacity building. The three components of this second project: (i)
Support on-going service delivery; (ii) Improve the range and quality of services and develop/implement
supporting systems; and (iii) Develop and implement health sector policy and management systems,
continue to support the key objectives of the JAM report. Component (i) of the project aims to maintain and
sustain services which have been restored -- albeit with a certain degree of fragility. Component (ii) aims
to deepen and extend the range of basic health services (e.g., health promotion, reproductive health,
immunization and child health, and communicable disease control) and strengthen them by ensuring key
support systems including strengthening referral systems and establishing a rational and sustainable
- 19 -



hospital system. Component (iii) aims to continue support for the health policy development process and
provide resources to implement the policy as well as strengthening systems management, health sector
human resource planning and training. This component also provides support to the PMU to assist the
DHS manage project inputs to the overall health program
The program's policy framework addresses two key cross-cutting issues of risk pooling and cost
containment by: (a) supporting the continuing operation of secondary and tertiart care facilities which do
not at present charge fees; and (b) by focusing on basic health care services that includes health promotion
and other components of the "best buys" basic health services package. The drug distribution system
should also contain costs. Further, there is a strong commitment to health equity and it is likely the benefits
of the project will be equitably distributed.
While formal cost benefit and cost-effective analysis is difficult given the nature of the project and lack of
data we do know health indicators were very poor prior to the violence and that without the projects
restoration of basic services could not be re-established and sustained. Without basic services low health
indicators would have deteriorated further lowering substantially labor productivity. If health services
provided by the program improved labor productivity by only 5 % annually this would result in benefits of
$10 million annually. Similarly, an additional benefit of about $4-5 million per annum could be attributed
to improved productivity of the non-monitized sector. Moreover, healthy children would also result in
significantly increased school attendance. Overall benefits could be of the order of $14-16 million per
annum. Strong benefits can also be expected from better input management -- particularly from improved
drug management -- with savings of $1-2 million per annum being reasonably expected.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact.
There is considerable uncertainty about the estimates of the budget envelop for the health system since it
will depend, to a large extent, on the policy decisions that will be made by the DHS and the administration
on the relative importance of the health sector for public financing. The recurrent costs for operating the
system if no changes are made in the general policy direction of the system are estimated to be $7.5 million
in FY02, $8.3 million in FY03; and $9.5 million in FY04. By comparison, the size of next years (FY02)
overall recurrent budget (CFET) is expected to be about $64 million with forward estimates in FY04
(assuming total expenditure can grow at 5 percent per annum) being $71 million. This would mean
recurrent costs would absorb less that 14 percent of the total recurrent budget. The increase in recurrent
health expenditures arising from the program is $2.2 million over 2 years or about 23 percent. Most of this
arises from donor financed projects and not the TFET funded program. The project is financing health
planning support of the supply of doctors to support service delivery and as part of a transition strategy
reducing the level of expenditures on this activity from $4-5 million per annum in FY01 to about $750,000
in FY03. The hospitals, the largest component of the project add an estimated $150,000 to the FY04
operating budget. The recurrent costs for the hospitals are currently provided in the CFET (operating
budget) for FY02 From this perspective the project if fiscally sustainable. Options to introduce user
charges will emerge as a part of the policy development process raising the possibility of reducing the fiscal
impact of the health sector on the public fisc
- 20 -



3. Technical:
In view of the collapse of the government health care system after the 1999 referendum, and the broad
spectrum of needs, a sector wide approach was adopted by the first project. This second project continues
that approach. The sector wide approach has two advantages in the current situation - it facilitates
prioritization and sequencing, and it allows for donor coordination in support of agreed priorities, with less
risk of overwhelming the still new and developing capacity within the DHS. The project and program
design builds on the strengths in the system and provides support for the transition of service delivery
management from International NGOs to the DHS. NGO support will be retained for specific program
support.
While a major priority in the first phase of the redevelopment program supported by the first project was
restoring access to basic services, in the second it is rationalization of the hospitals. There will be fewer
hospitals than under the Indonesian system, though the exact number and scope of services will be decided
after the upcoming hospital assessment (July), which will take a resource based approach to determining
sustainable capacity. Preliminary estimates have been made by the project team's architect/implementation
specialist of the costs of rehabilitating three currently operating hospitals and constructing two new, though
the present project provides for the renovation of the three existing hospitals and the building of one new
hospital (or 2 bedded clinics if this option is suggested by the hospital study). Since all but one hospital is
currently supported by CFET and, through the NGOs, by TFET, it is expected that these investment costs
will result in additions to the recurrent budget of no more than $150,000 a year as four hospitals are
already basically fully funded in the CFET budget for FY02. The project provides for a strong project
management team -- which is in place -- to manage the civil works program and avoid implementation
delays.
A second major investment cost is that of supporting the DHS to resume responsibility for district service
delivery from the International NGOs Their presence offered the best chance of restoring services under
the first project. Support of the new district management teams and implementation of the district health
plans under the second project will be supported by professional health planners and the recruitment of
about 21 doctors -- mainly from developing rather than developed countries -- as part of the transition to a
sustainably financed service delivery system. It was felt this was the most cost effective approach to health
service delivery. The high costs of International NGOs (from $6 -8 per capita), most of whom were
"emergency" focused rather than "developmentally" focused, made the continued use of International NGOs
as the main support for district service delivery unsustainable. NGOs will continue to play an important
role in the support of specific programs.
A third important area of the program from a technical perspective is the focus in service delivery on a
limited package of services (done well and on a sound technical basis) in the short term. This is heavily
focussed on priority programs delivered in an integrated manner and includes immunization, child health,
reproductive health, TB and health promotion -- all areas that can change the health status of East
Timorese and are also demonstrably cost-effective. These programs are all drawing on the major strengths
of the UN technical agencies -- WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA
A fourth significant investment cost is for training and capacity building broadly defined. Courses
overseas, in East Timor, and study tours and exchanges of experience, are all planned to enlarge
perspectives and understanding of the different approaches possible to health policy and financing
questions, as well as for health worker and health management training Costs have been estimated on the
basis of prior experience, course materials, and the knowledge of team members
A fifth area supported by the project is the Autonomous Medical Supply Entity, a system of
- 21 -



pharmaceuticals management that is considered best practice internationally, and for which the costs are
known through the contracting process.
4. Institutional:
4 1 Executing agencies
The formal implementing agency is UJNTAET In practice, the day to day management of the project will
be with DHS within ETTA
4.2 Project management.
Overall coordination of the health program is with the DHS. DHS is a division of ETTA, and is the
institution established by UNTAET to manage and implement health programs in the transitional
government. Both because of the small size of the DHS, and the need to build capacity across the division,
the Health PMU is coterminous with the DHS. The central DHS staff will number about 20 when all
positions have been filled. The newly appointed head is a doctor with MPH training. Most of the newly
recruited staff have been holding their positions temporarily for over a year, but training was delayed until
recruitment was complete, and much remains to be done to build experience, expertise and confidence The
international staff of DHS number 6 to 8, and apart from three senior staff, are mainly UNVs. The PMU
Program Manager, who acts as an Adviser to the PMU Director and Head of DHS, is a senior health
professional on secondment from WHO. The Program Manager reports to the Cabinet Minister for Social
Affairs through the head of DHS. The PMU Program Manager, responsible for the day to day
management of the PMU, is supported by project funded staff in the positions of a finance officer,
counterpart to the Head Sub-division of Finance, Administration, Logistics and procurement, a
Procurement Officer, counterpart to the Head of the Logistics and Procurement Section, and a Senior
Procurement Advisor, on periodic assignment, overseeing procurement planning and management within
the PMU. The procurement advisor was added to the procurement team under the first project to redress
weak procurement capacity. A health planning and management specialist will also be added to the PMU.
The appointment of a health policy and management specialist is a condition of project effectiveness and
the continuation of these positions is an implementation condition of the project. Program budget lines
allow identification of all activities funded under the project.
4 3 Procurement issues
See Annex 6
4 4 Financial management issues-
See Annex 6
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis
The main environmental issues arise from project support of hospital rehabilitation and construction, the
safe management of hospital waste, and how to deal with the asbestos removal
The main issue is management of healthcare waste disposal. The hospitals to be rehabilitated and rebuilt
under the project will include the larger version of the incinerators approved for healthcare waste disposal
in health centers and hospitals in the first project. The incinerators will have similar specifications to those
used successfully in similar situations in the Solomon Islands in recent years. The incinerators are
environmentally appropriate for East Timor, using simple technology and readily available fuel sources -
- 22 -



wood, coconut shells etc The double chamber action ensures heating to a high temperature and control of
toxic gases. The terms of reference for the hospital design contract (to be undertaken by a firm with
specialist skills in hospital design) will require detailed specifications for incinerators to be developed
taking into account the eventual size of the hospitals to be developed. Adequate funds are available in the
project for both the design work and the construction and operationalization of the incinerators. Training in
packaging health care waste and use of the incinerator will be part of the supply contract. The hospitals
are, and will be for the next few years, under the professional management of international health NGOs.
The projects also support the construction of a Central Laboratory and the Autonomous Medical Supply
Entity. Both buildings will contain incinerators. The Autonomous Medical Supply Entity will be managed
on private sector principles by an agency independent of the DHS. One of its main responsibilities is the
management of inventory to avoid the problem of out of date pharmaceuticals.
White asbestos has been found in several health centers and schools destroyed after the referendum, and is
a problem in the larger urban areas. AusAID have funded a team to investigate, and has now, together
with DHS, provided technical assistance to the environmental unit of UNTAET in the development of
guidelines for safe asbestos handling in the extensive construction going on in the country. All TFET
projects involving construction will mandate compliance with these guidelines. All civil works contracts
will provide for the safe handling and disposal of asbestos in accordance with these guidelines. Adequate
funds are provided in the project under the design and civil works components of the project to enable the
asbestos to be handled and disposed safely. The construction coordinator within the PMU of the DHS will
have TORs which include responsibilities to ensure construction contract provisions are being followed
i.e., that worker safety, safe handling and disposal of hazardous materials including asbestos follow the
guidelines. This will include on-site training for asbestos handling and removal.
These issues are also applicable for the first project however delays in procurement activities mean there
are no substantive lessons to be learned from the first project yet. Nevertheless, the supervision and review
team for both the first and second project will continue to monitor these issues carefully. In this context, it
appropriate to note that it was the team's architect which first identified the potential of the asbestos
problem during a review mission of the first project.
All buildings being renovated under the program are simple in design, make the maximum use of
cross-ventilation and will have large roof overhangs to reduce to the minimum the amount of solar
penetration into rooms. Only specialized rooms such as operating theatres, vaccine stores, etc. will require
air-conditioning. All building will be simply constructed using rendered concrete blocks made in East
Timor.
All sanitary waste from both clinics and hospitals will be treated in septic tanks with the overflow going to
appropriately sized soakaways sited at least 30 meters from any wells or water courses to avoid any
possible contamination.
5 2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA
Date of receipt of final draft.
NA
5 4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
- 23 -



of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
5 5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6 1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The impact of the program is expected to be population wide - and especially important to the 80 percent of
the population in rural areas The health policy working group which is taking the lead on policy options
has identified ensuring access to the poor as an important goal of East Timor's health system
Although the first project succeeded in increasing access to services, utilization remains low - a legacy of
lack of confidence in the Indonesian system and the need to continue to develop service capacity in the
peripheral health system Now that recruitment is complete, and the motorcycles procured under the first
project can be delivered to the districts, the mobile clinics should begin to operate as planned, increasing
access and utilization of first level care. It is expected too, that the improved communication and transport
systems funded under the projects, and which again will become fully operational over the next year, will
increase access to hospital care within two hours of a health center, enhancing the credibility of the system.
In addition, the radios provided at health centers are intended to be a community resource, increasing
community feelings of ownership of their health services.
Much more needs to be done with regard to health promotion - both traditional health education, and
community mobilization. District health committees have been established in all 12 districts outside Dili,
but in general are not yet fully functional. The health program supports health promotion, working
through specialized NGOs with experience at community level, and working cross-sectorally, most
importantly with water and sanitation, to improve health knowledge and increase demands on the health
system.
At this point in time, the DHS and the appraisal team do not foresee the need for any land acquisition for
hospitals or other health facilities proposed to be built or rehabilitated under the project. It is expected that
all building will be done on existing health facility sites. Nevertheless, in view of the very small possibility
that the final design work may result in recommendations not to build on one of the proposed sites
provision has been made in the Grant Agreement for confirmation, as a condition of effectiveness, that
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, acceptable to IDA, have been issued by UNTAET.
The program also makes provision for a small grants program to finance the activities of groups within
civil society. The grants will fund activities of professional associations, community groups, local NGOs,
helping to build a broad constituency for health.
6 2 Participatory Approach- How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The mission visited 6 of the 12 districts and met with representatives of the NGO service providers, district
administration, church providers, local groups, and members of the community. These visits helped shape
the second project by confirming progress in increasing access but low felt need for preventive services on
the part of local people. The mission also met with representatives of stakeholders in the bi-monthly health
sector meeting, and with NGO service providers as a group. The UN technical agencies were invited to
- 24 -



participate in the mission. There is provision under the project for both international NGOs and UN
agencies to receive funding to implement program activities, and to fund other groups in civil society
through the small grants program
The health policy working group established as part of the policy development process, includes district
level officials in its meetings, and invites other key stakeholders - from political groups to staff working in
sectors which also impact on health. Participation from the latter two groups has until now been less than
hoped for, but should improve as policy recommendations are readied for national debate. This will be
monitored.
An indicator established under the first project was the number of stakeholder consultations on key policy
decisions, and discussion with stakeholders on key national policy directions is also an indicator for the
second project (see log frame)
6 3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs with specific technical skills and expertise will be engaged to support the DHS implement specific
elements of the basic package. There are agreements for consultations by DHS with stakeholders on policy
development Community mobilization will be the responsibility of the new district management teams.
The small grants program provides resources for organizations of civil society with an interest in the health
sector.
6 4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A first priority of the program was restoring access to basic services in rural areas, and a unit within DHS
is devoted to the basic package of services. Hospital rationalization is intended to ensure that the hospital
sector is efficient and sustainable, allowing adequate resourcing of basic services at the first level of care.
Community involvement in the design and management of the hospital referral system -- particularly for
expectant mothers -- will be an important part of the development of the basic health package and of the
hospital sector.
While seeking to avoid the physical overcapacity of the previous system, the project provides for twice
weekly scheduled mobile clinics to remote areas, and sparsely populated areas. Services with the most
potential to improve health status among the poor have been made a priority - reproductive health,
immunization and communicable disease, with the first two being part of the basic package of health
services unit, and communicable disease the focus of another DHS unit
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The quarterly monitoring reports from the districts report on access, utilization and coverage of key
program areas. The project provides resources to further develop the health and management information
systems within DHS. A Demographic and Health Survey (funded by the project), and a Living Standards
Measurement Survey being conducted in the next year, will provide baseline data on health status among
different social groups, and on where they turn for health care. This will greatly enhance the capacity of
DHS to design specific targeted programs where this is required.
- 25 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7 2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies
See section 5 above
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability issues are both financial and programmatic. Under the first project, the NGOs who stepped
in during the emergency period to provide services were asked to stay to ensure services during the
transition period until the East Timorese assumed full responsibility. Essential though they were, the costs
of supporting the NGO presence were relatively high, and dependence on the NGOs can now be reduced as
the new DHS managers take up position. Important financial implications are those of the hospital
rehabilitation and reconstruction for the recurrent budget. About 4 hospitals will be rehabilitated under the
project, and one more may be constructed in the future - as compared with 8 before the emergency. Since
hospitals are currently functioning, with most of the staff employees of the DHS, the additional costs will
be few - except in the case of the main referral hospital in Dili, until recently operated by the International
Red Cross, and now the responsibility of DHS. Staff for this hospital need to be recruited by the DHS.
Most of the doctors working in the hospitals work for the international NGOs. Though East Timor will be
dependent on foreign doctors for some time, they will now be recruited from other developing countries.
The sector wide approach has been adopted to strengthen sustainability - with donors agreeing to fund only
activities agreed as priorities under the program All activities are part of a line item budget produced by
the DHS
- 26 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex I).
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government does not continue to contract    S         DHS has identified the specific areas of support
technical assistance for district health             required for the districts and is revising the
management teams or to use technical                  district health planning guidelines.
assistance of the specialized UN agencies
to help build capacity in the new central             Provision is made in both the project and in the
and district management teams.                        overall program for funding the UN technical
agencies (WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA), who
provide integral support to DHS under the
sector wide program. The joint donor missions
provide a high level forum for sustain bi-annual
dialogue on these issues and coordinate support
That systems issues are not addressed       M         Working groups have been established for key
functional areas in DHS. Focusing on a few key
areas significant for systems development, e.g.,
reproductive health, rather than the broad
spectrum of health system needs, will build
necessary experience in these working groups
and focus effort where the highest returns can be
expected.
That the rehabilitation of hospitals does   M         The firm conducting the hospital planning study
not go according to plan                              is mobilized and the RFPs for hospital
rehabilitation design are already in preparation,
to move this component ahead as quickly as
possible.
That government does not continue its       S         The policy working group is one of the most
step by step process of deciding key                  active and successful in the DHS with strong
policy issues with broad stakeholder                  East Timorese ownership. Now recruitment is
involvement and does not move to policy               completed, study tours, and training will
formulation and implementation                       increase understanding and knowledge in this
area.
- 27 -



From Components to Outputs
The health planning and management            M          DHS has already begun the process of
specialists will not be mobilized before the             consultation with the NGOs. Several have
NGO contracts expire, to provide support                indicated their interest in providing assistance
to the DHS, in particular to the                         over the longer term, though others (typically
development and implementation of                        NGOs specializing in "emergency" situations)
district health plans                                    will leave after September. It is expected that
other (private) providers of policy/management
support will express interest in providing key
skills.
That improved quality will not increase       S          The DHS and other surveys (LSMS) will
demand and utilization                                   provide information on health seeking behavior.
Mobile clinics, with motorcycles procured under
the first project will now be operational,
bringing increased contact with the health
system. Improved transport and communication
will strengthen referral systems ensuring access
to higher levels of care when needed
That the re-establishment of sustainable      S          Hospitals have been reduced in number, and the
hospital services will not reduce the                    hospital assessment will lead to a rationalization
number of premature deaths and increase                  of bed capacity and services offered to ensure
the credibility of the health system.                    quality and sustainability. Work on the basic
health package will include support for
reproductive health and associated plans to
implement a sound and effective referral system.
That training and capacity building will      M          Policy and systems development is a long term
not lead to effective policy and systems                 and iterative process. Training abroad, in East
development                                              Timor, and study tours and exchanges of
experience will gradually build the needed
capacity.
Overall Risk Rating                           5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Controversial issues in the project design include:
*   The decision not to rebuild all the infrastructure (hospitals, clinics and health posts) that existed under
Indonesian rule. Pressure may emerge from rural communities for more health posts (fixed facilities)
rather than relying on a fixed scheduled mobile health clinics. The decision to reduce the excess
capacity in the hospital sector including the number of and size of the hospitals is likely to be
controversial.
* The decision to establish and sustain the autonomous medical supply entity.
* Defining and agreeing the role of the public sector and private sectors and implementing health
financing and pricing options may be controversial -- particularly for the newly Independent
- 28 -



Government.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a)   that the Health Policy and Management Specialist within the Program Management Unit, with
qualifications acceptable to the Trustee, has been employed.
(b)   that arrangements, acceptable to the Trustee, have been made for the retention of the existing
finance officer or recruitment has been initiated to appoint a new manager with qualifications
acceptable to the Trustee.
(c)   that an Operational Manual including. (i) an action plan for the financial management of the
Project; (ii) an action plan for procurement under the Project, acceptable to the Trustee, has been
developed and adopted;
(d)   that the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework, acceptable to the Trustee, has been
issued by the Recipient, and
(e)   that the guidelines for the preparation of district health plans, acceptable to the Trustee, have been
adopted.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Implementation Conditions
1.    The Recipient shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Health Program Management Unit
responsible for the overall management of the Project, headed by a Program Director who shall be
the Head of the Division of Health Services. The HPMU shall be provided at all times with
adequate resources and staffed by qualified and experienced personnel in sufficient numbers,
including:
(a)    a program manager;
(b)    a health policy and management specialist
(c)    a finance officer;
(d)    a procurement specialist; and
(e)    periodically, a senior procurement advisor.
2.     The Recipient shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the Project, the
Operational Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, which shall include the description of: (a) the
appropriate procurement procedures as set out for the Project (together with standard procurement
documentation); and (b) reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit
procedures applicable to the project and set out in the Grant Agreement.
3      In carrying out Component I a of the Project, the Recipient shall adopt and apply guidelines,
acceptable to the Trustee, for the preparation of district health plans.
- 29 -



4.     In carrying out Component lb of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that:
(a) only pharmaceuticals that are included in both the National Essential Drugs List and the World
Health Organization's Essential Drugs List are procured under the project; and (b) the procurement
of the pharmaceuticals under the Project is the responsibility of the Autonomous Medical Supply
Entity.
5.     In carrying out Component 2 of the Project, the recipient will
(a)  take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of persons and to avoid
the displacement of said persons,
(b)  where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is unavoidable, ensure
that the Recipient shall, before carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition
or displacement, make available to Affected Persons, compensation in accordance with the
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework; and
(c)  in the event that there are two hundred or more Affected Persons
(i)   prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy Framework and furnish such plan to IDA for approval; and
(ii) prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected Persons shall have been
compensated in accordance with the provisions of said plan.
6.     In carrying out Component 3 of the Project, the Recipient will:
(a)    not later than June 30, 2002, draft revised regulations for pharmaceuticals, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Trustee, and fumish such drafts to the Trustee for comments;
and
(b)    thereafter, taking into account the comrnents of the Trustee, finalize and issue such
regulations.
7      In carrying out Component 3 of the Project, the Recipient will.
(a)    not later than December 31, 2001, furnish the draft sector policy paper to the Trustee for
comments; and
(b)    thereafter, taking into consideration the comments of the Trustees, finalize the health sector
policy and (i) prepare a timetable, acceptable to the Trustee, for its implementation, and
(ii) ensure that the policy is reflected in future annual health sector plans.
8.     In carrying out Component 3 of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that priority for fellowships
is to given to managers of the Division of Health Services.
9.     The Recipient shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth for the Project, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee, on
or about October 1, 2002 and October 1, 2003, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 9 (a) above, on the
- 30 -



progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of
said reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
(c)    review with the Trustee, by November 1, 2002 and November 1, 2003, or such later date
as the Trustee shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph 9. (b) above, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations
of the said report and the Trustee's views on the matter.
Financial Conditions:
1.     The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of UNTAET responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
2.     The Recipient will:
(a)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 1 above including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(b)    furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)    fumish to the Trustee such other information conceming said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
3      For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the recipient shall:
(a)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph I above, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(b)    retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(c)    enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(d)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph 2 above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
4.     (a)    Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 1, 2 and 3 above, the Recipient shall
carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Trustee for the strengthening of the
- 31 -



financial management system referred to in paragraph (1) of this section in order to enable
the Recipient, not later than October 1, 2002, or such later date as the Trustee shall agree,
to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Trustee, each of which
(i) (A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by said report and expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant during the six-month period
following the period covered by said report;
(ii) (A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for
the period covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets, and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, as at the end of the period
covered by said report
(b)        Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and
furnish to the Trustee not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a
Project Management Report for such period.
- 32 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
D 1. b) Not applicable
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3 The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G)
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
I= /
Ian P Morris                      Maureen Law                       Klaus Rohiand
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Direator
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Key Performnance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitorin k&Evaluation        tifaI Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rebuild a sustainable national Improved Infant Mortality    Baseline information on key   The transition to
health system which assures  and Maternal Mortality Ratios health indicators will be  independence is achieved
access to quality health care to over time            provided by the planned    without any major political,
all                                                   Demographic and Health     economic or social crisis
Survey (DHS), the Household
Survey and the Living
Standards Measurement
Surveys
The Health Management
Information System will
provide data and proxies for
indicator trends between
surveys.
Effective and sustainable  Health Policy/Strategies   The Independent Government
health policies implemented   adopted by the Independent   of East Timor, supported by
Government                the technical and professional
advice of East Timorese
management of DHS , accepts
the need to develop and adopt
sustainable health policies and
systems
Per capita recurrent health    Consolidated Budget for East
expenditures increase      Timor;
gradually from the current    CEM
$9 00 to $11.00-$12 00 over
the next 3-4 years
- 34 -



Key Pelfmance
Hierarchy of Objectives    _    Indicators      _  Monito Eng &  valuation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Rehabilitate and develop a    I Children under one year of I Initially all data for the 3   The recovery program for the
cost-effective and financially  age with DPT3 vaccination   indicators to be derived from   country will proceed as
sustainable health system in  (Base 20%. At least 30% by   District Health Plan Quarterly expected and East Timor is
East Timor to be responsive to July 2002 and 50% by July    Reports and then from HMIS  able to sustain: (a) public
the immediate basic health   2003                   being developed by DHS     expenditure equal 20 percent
needs of the population and,                                                   of GDP; (b) health
within a well-integrated and                        The DHS and LSMS surveys  expenditures as share of total
sustainable policy framework,                       will benchmark indicators 2   budget (currently at 11 6%);
to prepare the health system                        and 3 on a population basis   and non-hospital expenditures
to meet future needs                                                           equal to about 60 percent of
the health budget
2 Proportion of the       2 Annual reports of the   Government continues
population with access to  program and sub-program  commitment to exploring
basic services within 2 hours  indicators established for the  policy options, with
of home to increase from 60%  DHS program budget    stakeholder involvement and
in June 2001 to 90% in June                         technical input Health
2002, and 95% by June 2003                          systems and policy decisions
reflect realistic assumptions
about resources
3 Number of primary       Mid-Term Review of Health
(outpatient) visits per capita  Program and the project
per annum to increase from    undertaken by DHS
less than I to 2 by June 2002
and 2 5 by July 2003
- 35 -



KeyPromance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumtinons
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I Support Ongoing Service   I Proportion of community   I District Plan Monitoring   Government continues to
Delivery                   health centers and health  Reports and Annual Reports  contract technical assistance
posts providing basic care 5   of the health program and    for district health
days per week Target 1 00%  sub-program indicators    management teams, and to
by June 2002               established for the DHS    use technical assistance of
program budget            specialized UN agencies to
help build capacity in the new
central and district
management teams
2 Population with access to  2 As for I above
inpatient care within 2 hours
of a basic health facility
Target 70% by June 2002
3 Proportion of scheduled    3 As for I above
twice-weekly mobile clinic
sites visited at least 7 times
per month Target 80% by
June 2002
4 Proportion of facilities  4 As for I above
reporting stock outs of more
than two weeks in previous
quarter increased from 60% to
90% in June 2002
5 Number of sub-districts    5 TB Program Reports and
(T= 64) with functional TB    from Annual Reports of the
detection and treatment    health program and
follow-up mechanism  Base  sub-program indicators
35 Target by June 2002: 64  established for the DHS
program budget
- 36 -



2 Improve Range and       6 Hospital rationalization    6 Hospital plan introduced    Systems issues are addressed
Quality of Services and   plan adopted by December   into DHS program and
Develop/ Implement Support  2001                    budget
Systems                                                                       That rehabilitation and
7 Skilled attendance at birth  7 Quarterly Monitoring  establishment of emergency
to increase from 20% to 25%   Reports and HMIS      referral care is done according
in June 2002, and to 35% in                         to plan
June 2003
8 Number of staff attending   8 DHS program reports
training in:
a) reproductive health
b) IMCI
9 Number of outpatient    9 Quarterly Monitoring
visits/contacts with first level Reports and HMIS
of care per first level of care
provider
3 Develop/Implement Health  10 Human Resource       10 Policy paper available and Government continues its step
Sector Policy and         Management and            integrated in DHS procedures by step process of deciding
Management Systems        Development Policy adopted  and plans                key policy issues with broad
by June 2002                                        stakeholder involvement and
moves to policy formulation
I1 90% of central and district II DHS program reports
DHS staff attending at least I
training activity in
management and
administration by June 2002
12 Options for key national  12 Draft national health
policy directions discussed    policy paper for review by
with stakeholders by     joint donor group
December 2001
13 East Timor regulations on 13 Regulations available
pharmaceuticals produced in
August/September 2001
revised by April 2002 and
promulgated by September
2002.
- 37 -



Hierarchy of Obeti        0ves   Indicors            Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Support Ongoing Service    US$ 3 52                   Project monitoring and     That health planning and
Delivery                                              evaluation                 management specialists will
*  Service delivery at the                                                      be mobilized before the NGO
district level                                                               contracts expire, to provide
*  District Health Planning                                                     support to the DHS, in
*  Provision of                                                                 particular to the development
pharmaccuticals to health                                                    and implementation of district
facilities, including                                                        health plans
hospitals
Improve Range and Quality  US$ 14 79                  Project monitoring and     That improved quality will
of Services, and                                      evaluation, and site visits    increase demand and
Develop/lImplement Support                                                       utilization
Systems
*  Hospital Rationalization                                                     That the reestablishment of
and Strengthening of                                                         sustainable hospital services,
Referral System                                                              will reduce the number of
*  Central Laboratory and                                                       premature deaths and increase
Community Health                                                             the credibility of the health
Centers                                                                      system
* Autonomous Medical
Store
*  Basic Package of Services
Health Sector Policy and   US$ 2 72                   Project monitoring and     That training and capacity
Management Systems                                    evaluation                 building will lead to effective
*  Policy and Systems                                                           policy and systems
Development                                                                  development
* Human Resource
Development
* Management Systems
- 38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
The Context
East Timor was devastated by the violence of September 1999 that erupted after the vote for independence
from Indonesia. Over 75 percent of the population was displaced during the disturbances, and returned to
find many of their homes and most public buildings -- including health centers and hospitals -- destroyed
The economy was severely disrupted -- notably agricultural production for export and for subsistence - and
commerce declined sharply. Most infrastructure services -- transport, ports, mail, telephones, banks --
were no longer functioning The civil service had disintegrated the exodus of Indonesians included most
officials with management and government experience Health was no exception. East Timor was left with
only 20 doctors and virtually no experienced health administrators In this situation, the U.N stepped in to
provide a transitional government, and started rebuilding a govemance structure and sectoral capacity
Funding for the development side - including in health - came from the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET),
established to provide support over the three year period FY2001 to FY2003. Initial efforts focused on the
central level -- building the capacity of the East Timor Interim Health Authority (IHA) to manage the
health sector and district administration in each of the thirteen districts The IHA is now the Division of
Health Services (DHS) within the East Timor Transitional Administration (ETTA) During the initial
emergency period international NGOs and relief agencies provided for basic health needs
The first health project supported the first phase of a three year program, within a sector wide approach to
redevelopment of the health sector The sector wide approach was designed to work at two inter-related
levels (a) to permit the definition of needs across the board - service delivery, rehabilitation of the health
infrastructure, health systems and health policy development, and (b) to coordinate donor financing of the
sector, and assistance from the UN technical agencies, in support of the agreed program. The approach
facilitated formulation of a framework in which health needs were prioritized and sequenced, which
guarded against the danger that interventions designed to meet immediate needs would constrain future
policy and systems development, and which helped to ensure future sustainability It also respected the
need to nurture the capacity of the DHS to manage both the program, and donor support
The first project focused on restoring basic health care - i.e., to improving access to preventive services and
to curative care at the first level - including support for rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged
infrastructure. It was based on a transitional strategy under which the NGOs which came in during the
emergency period were asked to stay and take the lead in service provision at the district level The
strategy called for acceleration of selected high priority activities, such as imnmunization, to be delivered
through the health facilities and mobile clinics, and integrated into a basic package of services - but
drawing heavily on the technical expertise of the UN technical agencies (in particular WHO, UNICEF and
UNFPA) and specialized NGOs It was a first step - attempting to provide for urgent needs without putting
in place services or structures that would pre-empt future systems development decisions At the same
time, a process for health policy development was put in place. But obviously, the first level of care will
have limited credibility without the possibility of referral to hospital care. This, for example, is at the core
of maternity care. Therefore, hospitals are a priority for TFET (and EC) funding under the second and
third phases of the program. The ground work is being done under the first project, with a hospital
assessment of needed capacity, taking into account the implications for recurrent costs. As this planning
proceeds, two major considerations are: (a) long term sustainability; and (b) maintaining an appropriate
balance between hospital care, and primary health care (provision of the basic package of services at the
first level of care) where the greatest gains in health status can be achieved Though the major part of
project funding will be provided to hospital rehabilitation and construction, this is within the context of the
- 39 -



sector wide program i e , a much broader set of activities, and reflects agreement on what should be funded
from the various funding sources - TFET, CFET, AusAID and EC
The second project is expected to become effective in July 2001, and will run concurrently with the first
project for three months The second project will run for 27 months, with a project competition date of
September 30, 2003 and a closing date of March 31, 2004.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.52 million
Support Ongoing Service Delivery A major element of the transition strategy for service provision was
the agreement with NGOs to manage service delivery at the district level. With district management teams
(DMTs) now in place, service delivery will be managed and provided directly by the DMTs. This
component provides major support to district health planning, service delivery, and pharmaceuticals
District Health Planning. With the newly appointed East Timorese taking on responsibility for service
delivery and management, there is a need for technical assistance both at the central DHS as well as at the
district level -- particularly for DMTs from specialists in various fields of management. The transitional
strategy of inviting the NGOs to stay after the emergency period was the only one that held out the
possibility of restoring access to basic health services, and the NGOs have shown considerable flexibility
and commitment in agreeing to the DHS request that they stay while the DHS readied itself for the
assumption of responsibility. However, the cost of the NGO presence is relatively high, mainly in terms of
expatriate salaries - particularly doctors Further, most of the NGOs are emergency organizations, who
can make only a limited time commitment. Given the need to reduce costs until they reach a level
sustainable from the recurrent cost budget of the independent government, and the need to transfer
responsibility to the new DHS staff, this component will support the central DHS through the provision of
technical assistance in management particularly at the district level. Thus management support to service
delivery at the district level will no longer be on a district by district basis, but focus on providing support
in key management areas across the country. This support will be provided by individual specialists, by
development NGOs, or by management companies, or some combination of all three. It will be provided in
different areas: human resources management, district health management, hospital management, assets
management etc. The technical assistance will be providing assistance both at the periphery (four district
health management specialists will be deployed in different districts) and others will be based at central
level providing support to the central structure but with responsibilities in different locations (e.g., hospital
management specialist offering support to different hospital management teams).
Service Delivery at District Level. Services in the districts will be carried out and organized according to
District Health Plans. Under the first project the NGOs took the lead, but under the second project the
responsibility will lie with the District Health Officer and the District Health team, with the assistance of
the central DHS and the management specialists. At least at first, the District Health team is likely to need
considerable assistance with these tasks The skills needed include working with the community to
establish mechanisms for community participation in the planning of district services, and developing
accountability tools. (See background paper "Capacity Building for the East Timorese Health Service" in
the project file.)
The component will also support the hiring of expatriate doctors Currently they are recruited by the
NGOs, and are typically European doctors who stay for limited periods. Although their salaries are not
high by European standards, they are more than can be afforded for long by East Timor. Under the second
project most doctors will be recruited from other developing countries. East Timor itself has about 20
- 40 -



doctors, several of whom are in the DHS, others working for the NGOs who pay higher salaries than
government, and one or two in the hospitals Five recently graduated doctors joined the coffee cooperative
health service. The supply of East Timorese doctors is not likely to improve for many years, and makes
human resource management and development strategy a critical element of policy development, as outlined
under component 3 below.
In addition, the component will both draw on, and support, the involvement of the UN specialized agencies,
and some specialized NGOs, in the provision of selected high priority services, and key supporting systems
such as communicable disease surveillance.
While support to the district management team and change process is the main activity funded by the
project under this component, the success of ongoing support to service delivery in the program as a whole
is dependent on activities funded by CFET. DHS will be responsible for running costs at district level,
including the salaries of health workers and the district management team. The budget planned for FY02 is
adequate for this purpose.
Pharmaceuticals The component will also provide pharmaceuticals to the health facilities, including
hospitals, on a time limited basis of one year. This is a one-time contribution to the costs of establishing
and managing the autonomous medical supply entity, and after a year will become the responsibility of the
government's recurrent cost budget.
Specialized Services. Other CFET funded activities (under this program component) will include support
to already established services, such as immunization and the national TB program, to key supporting
systems such as laboratory services, and to hospitals, in particular to Dili hospital, the country's main
referral hospital. Other hospital recurrent costs are being supported by CFET with some support from the
project also provided as part of the support to the districts. AusAID will continue to support dental health
and mental health services.
Project Component 2 - US$14.79 million
Improve Range and Quality of Services and Develop/Implement Support Systems Access was
improved under the first project - though hampered by the slow process of recruitment which delayed
delivery of the motorcycles to the districts, and therefore the provision of mobile clinics. But utilization is
low. Improvement in the quality of care is now a priority under the second project, and is the particular
focus of the second component. The major activity (in financing terms) will be the rationalization and
rehabilitation of the hospital system, but there are several areas that will be supported in order to build the
credibility of the system: reproductive health - particularly matemity care - communicable disease, and
immunization/IMCI. Functional aspects are health information and management information systems, and
enhancement of health promotion The component will support a stronger systems approach to service
delivery.
Hospital Rationalization and Strengthening of Referral System. An assessment of current hospital
capacity, physical facilities, location, services offered funded under the first project will be available in July
(2001) Taking a 10 to 15 year view, it will make recommendations for rehabilitation and reconstruction of
hospitals, taking into account the recurrent cost implications and the limited medical expertise available in
East Timor
The hospital planning process includes the following elements:
*      a transitional plan for the five existing referral hospitals
- 41 -



*       assessment of overall capacity and physical status of hospitals
*       an action plan for reducing excess hospital capacity
*       construction/rehabilitation/equipping of hospitals
*       transport and communications
*       support for staff and operation costs
The previous health system was characterized by an extensive physical infrastructure, including a relative
over-supply of hospital services, at the expense of the quality of services, especially in rural areas. It is
important that the new East Timor health system does not repeat the same pattern.
Immediately following the crisis of 1999, the East Timor Health Professionals Working Group (ETHPWG)
defined the need for just four regional hospitals (in Ainaro, Baucau, Maliana and Oecussi), in addition to
Dili Hospital. If this recommendation is confirmed by the hospital assessment, these would form the basic
network of hospital care (including emergency surgery and essential obstetric care). In the short term,
however, given the destruction of some of the selected hospitals and current communications difficulties,
the five hospital sites need to be substituted/complemented by health centers with beds in other sites.
The central hospital at Toko Baru in Dili is currently being run by the International Committee of the Red
Cross (ICRC). The ICRC will phase out by 30 June 2001, and a strategy for transition to a new
management without interruption of services has been developed by DHS. Under this plan, another NGO
will provide management services, but at a reduced cost. The hospitals in Oecussi and Baucau are also
being managed by NGOs, and again, as they leave, management will be transferred to the DHS, with
technical support from independent consultants and specialized agencies as appropriate. The two remaining
hospitals in the recommended plan, (Maliana and Ainaro), will require very extensive reconstruction.
According to current agreed civil service staffing levels for the health sector overall, currently employed
staff in just the Dili and Baucau Hospitals would absorb about one quarter of the approved health
workforce for the entire country. Similarly the operating costs of the hospitals are very significant
(estimated at US$ 300,000 per month for the Dili hospital direct and in kind costs). During the first phase
of the program these costs were covered by sources outside the DHS budget - but will now be drawn from
CFET Future planning will require very close monitoring of hospital staff and operating costs during the
transition period.
The present situation is complicated by the fact that some inpatient facilities have already been
(re-)established in sites other than those recommended by the ETHPWG, mostly by international NGOs
seeking to compensate for the lack of access to hospital care This situation will be difficult, especially
politically, to rationalize. In areas where excess hospital capacity is identified a planned phasing out will
be required in order that alternative patterns of referral can be established in an orderly way. It will be
important to explain to the public why it is necessary, in the national interest, to reduce services in a
particular site. The area of hospital service, therefore, needs very careful and continuous assessment and
planning.
The project will support the design and construction of the hospitals and other bedded facilities as agreed
by DHS following the assessment. It will also support the improved communications and transport
essential to a well functioning referral system.
Central Laboratory, and Community Health Centers. Another activity to be supported under this
component is the rehabilitation of the Central Laboratory, and Centro Clinic in Dili. Additional clinics will
- 42 -



not be built unless the hospital assessment indicates less than five referral hospitals are needed and
recommends the establishment of health centers (probably with beds) in other locations. Most of the
community health centers were built under the first project, with the understanding that there would be a
need for others, particularly the Centro Clinic in Dili, to reduce the outpatient burden at Dili hospital.
Rehabilitation of the Central Laboratory is necessary to ensure that laboratory services are strengthened to
provide reliable and sustainable support to service delivery.
Autonomous Medical Supply Entity. The Autonomous Medical Supply Entity, for which the warehouse
was built under the first project, is to be managed by an autonomous board, initially under the leadership of
a recently hired consulting company. The company, operating according to private sector principles, but
on a nonprofit basis, will be responsible for pharmaceutical procurement, storage, inventory and
distribution while training East Timorese to take over. The board providing oversight will include not only
members of DHS, but of the finance and planning departments, and other key stakeholders in the health
sector. (For more details on the operation of the AMS please see the full report which provided input into
the PAD for the first project, and which is on file).
The Basic Package of Services. An activity of critical importance to be supported by this component is
improving the standardization and quality of basic services. Four substantive areas in particular need
systematic strengthening: reproductive health, communicable disease control, immunization/Integrated
Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI), and health promotion. Three functions that will contribute to
this strengthening are the development of a health management and information system (to be supported
under component 3), capacity building at various points of the system, and district planning (component 1).
Within reproductive health, care in pregnancy, delivery and post-partum are a high priority for East Timor.
Fewer than 20 percent of women have trained assistance at birth. Developing the continuum of care from
the community to facilities able to provide comprehensive essential obstetric care, within the critical time
periods is essential, with important implications for the facilities and hospital planning also supported
under this component. Work has begun on training, but more needs to be done to link this training to
systems development more generally. As an example, safe delivery training is currently ongoing - but
nurse midwives are not permitted at present to administer the drug oxytocin, essential to treating bleeding, a
major cause of matemal death. Increasing demand at the community level, and formulating plans to ensure
women in remote villages can gain access to skilled care at delivery are also required. The project will
support critical elements of this program: (a) training, including short term refresher courses that bring
midwives together in a community of practice, and enable two way communication between providers and
the DHS responsible for their support, and (b) technical assistance to a wide variety of activities designed
to strengthen the system, from "evacuation" plans at village level, to development of the systems health
providers need to enable them to perform the roles they are trained for, to integration into policy
development. WHO, UTNFPA and UNICEF, who work together on reproductive health, can provide an
essential technical lead to this systems development. Other aspects of reproductive health, for example
HIV/AIDS, will receive support from AusAID.
Communicable Disease is a second important area to be supported under this component - to include
support to the agencies which presently take responsibility for communicable disease control, and for its
integration into district health management and service delivery. An essential element is the development of
a surveillance system, building on work already done by WHO, and again, taking steps to adjust systems
and procedures according to experience and findings. It will be important to conduct cost-effectiveness
work to restrict the conditions included to those causing the major burden of disease. AusAID will provide
important support to this activity.
- 43 -



Routine immunization, i.e., integrated into service delivery in the health centers, is currently disappointingly
low, and again dependent on systems strengthening for irnprovement. Some improvement may be expected
from the re-establishment of mobile clinics after the motorcycles are delivered to the districts, following the
confirmation of staff - but much greater efforts are needed in districts with more densely populated areas,
such as Baucau. But immunization itself needs to be integrated into a broad approach to IMCI. This is not
an intervention, but an approach to care of the child as a whole, which requires capacity building, and
systems support to be effective. The project will provide financial assistance, and UNICEF, as lead
technical agency, will provide technical assistance to DHS's efforts in this area.
Health promotion is an urgent need - not only the preparation of appropriate materials, in local languages,
but development of cross-sectoral programs, and above all, community mobilization, building mechanisms
for inclusion of community representation in district planning, and for increasing service provider
accountability, within an agreed framework. Capacity building for these two types of health promotion will
be supported under the component. In addition, a small grants program, funded and managed by AusAID
will assist the activities of local NGOs, communities and professional associations.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.72 million
Develop/Implement Health Sector Policy and Management Systems
Policy and Systems Development. A good policy process, making provision for technical input and broad
stakeholder consultation but with decision making the responsibility of the East Timorese, was put into
place under the first project. However, the working group is just starting into the decision making process.
Technical inputs so far concern financing options, and an initial exploration of public/private issues. This
was instrumental in launching the health policy process, and the working group. However, the challenge
remains enormous, and the issues outlined for initial support under the first project remain largely
unchanged. They involve clear policy decisions on the objectives of the health sector in East Timor - for
example, is poverty reduction to be a factor influencing service provision? Other important issues are the
influence of other sectors on health status, and what to do about influencing policy in these sectors; the
role of government in provision, financing, and stewardship, building on the start already made; and further
definition of basic health - not only the services, but issues such as access versus quality, financing,
targeting, role of the private sector, ensuring equity and so forth.
The program has tried not to put services and systems in place that constrain these policy decisions - but
they will have to be made soon. A concrete example is in the area of human resource management and
development - specifically the issue of doctors. The supply of East Timorese doctors is not likely to
improve for many years, and raises several questions for policy: (i) what to do about the question of
private practice; (ii) the issues involved in public funding of medical education and how to ensure that the
social returns are comrnensurate with the private returns; (iii) how to make government service attractive
to East Timorese doctors, and (iv) how to provide health services in a situation of chronic doctor shortage
The component will support training, including fellowships and study tours in support of health systems
development. All countries face much the same problems, but have made different choices in dealing with
them, and visits to these countries and exchange of experience will be funded under the project
This componen. will also support the systems development indicated as so important in Component 2, and
an adoption of an integrated approach to all the elements that make a system work - as in the example of
reproductive health, above. A key supporting system is a health management and information system,
supplying information for logistics, monitoring and evaluation, district level reporting, and program
- 44 -



adjustment. This third component will support the development of this HMIS.
Population-based information is needed to provide a baseline for data on health status, and to help guide
program and policy direction. A demographic and health survey will provide this information. And
underpinning both policy and systems development, legislation and health regulation will be needed. The
project will support technical assistance and training in these areas.
Management Systems. The sector wide program approach, and the desire to build capacity across the
DHS, led to the decision at the start of support, in the first project, to not have a separate project
management unit within the DHS, but to support the DHS in its entirety.
The present project will continue that support - funding training, capacity building, DHS/PMU running
costs, establishment of key positions, and developing key administrative systems such as budget and
financial control mechanisms.
It will also support the cost of project audit.
- 45 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Local   Foreign    Local    Foreign    Total
US S millions
Project Cost by Component
Component I
Support On-going Service delivery                0.153     3.364        -         -       3.517
Component 2
Improve the Range and Quality ofServices,       0f957      4,997      1.735     7.097     14.786
and Develop & Implement Supporting Systems
Component 3                                      0.493     2.232                  -       2.725
Develop and Implement Healrh Sector Policy
and Management System
Total Baseline Cost                              1.603    IO.593      1.735     7.097     21.028
Physical Contingencies     -       0.404        -         -       0.404
Price Contingencies               .                    -
Total Project Costs                              1.603     10.997     1.735     7.097    21.432
TFET             European              Total   Total
Commission
USS millions
Component                            Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works                          0.525     1.975    1.575    5.925    2.100    7.900    10.000
Goods (including transportation)     0.107    2.386    0.160      1.172    0.267    3.558    3.825
Training Fedlowships and Workshops  0.342    0.453                         0.342    0.453    0.795
Operating Costs                      0.138    0.139                        0.138    0.139    0.277
Consultant Services and Studies     0.491    5.640                          0.491    5.640     6.131
Unallocated                                   0.404                                  0.404    0.404
rotal                                1.603    10.997    1.735     7.097    3.338    18.094  21.432
Total by Financier                       12.600               8.832             21.432
- 46 -



Annex 4: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
1. Analysis of Project Objectives
East Timor is a post-conflict country that is emerging from a period of emergency assistance and
transitioning to a more development-oriented form of assistance The country is formally administered by
the United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET). UNTAET has established the
East Timor Transitional Authority (ETTA) to manage and implement government programs on behalf of
UNTAET under the direction of Cabinet members. The Division of Health Services (DHS), formally the
Interim Health Authority (IHA), has been established within ETTA to be responsible for the health sector.
The Head of DHS reports to the Cabinet Minister for Social Affairs Significant progress has been made
in establishing an administrative infrastructure for the health sector over the past year -- particularly given
that the majority of Indonesian civil servants have left the territory, and public records and original plans
for building and utilities have been lost or destroyed. East Timor was left with an infrastructure which
was 70 percent destroyed, a population recovering from conflict, half of which has been displaced, no
functioning police force, a civil service that lacks the majority of its senior staff and an extremely weak
revenue base.
No Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) or Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) has yet been
prepared, and there has not yet been any Economic Sector Work (ESW) A CEM is planned for next
fiscal year. Nevertheless, strategic direction for the Bank has been developed in several documents, most
recently in the Transitional Support Strategy of the World Bank Group (Report No. 21184-TP, November
2000). The strategy defines priorities and an approach, giving rise to the five key objectives presented in
brief below:
A. Selection of activities for World Bank Support
(i) in the short term, focus on basics protection of the poor, private sector recovery, health and
education;
(ii) as the transition to independence approaches, assist the Government and East Timorese civil
society to debate post-independence policy decisions by providing research and capacity
building in key policy areas;
B. Ways in which the World Bank works:
(iii) build local ownership of the development process at all levels,
(iv) foster effective donor coordination, and
(v) sequence interventions well in order to match program implementation with institutional
capacity-building (see Strategic Context 1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
goal supported by the project in main text).
This document, and the much of the strategy underpinning the program, has been based on the earlier
strategic work including a multi-donor supported Joint Assessment Mission (JAM) in November 1999. A
"Health and Education Background Paper" was prepared in connection with the JAM. This report
identifies the immediate provision of health care and the development of a new health policy as the health
sector's two key priorities. According to the report, achieving these objectives required: (a) restoration of
primary health care services at the sub-district level; (b) re-establishment of inpatient services; (c)
- 47 -



re-establishment of a central health authority that will ultimately become the country's ministry of health;
and (d) health manpower capacity building. The report identified two key overall issues in implementing
the provision of basic health services: (i) managerial and technical inputs (doctors) will have to be provided
from external sources during the initial and much of the transitional phase, and (ii) expansion and
continuation of the provision of basic health care is urgent, but the extent thereof should not preempt
necessary health reforms.
The three components of the initial East Timor Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Program
(HSRDP) essentially paralleled the recommendations of the JAM report. (i) ensuring access to basic
services; (ii) policy and system development (including human resource development); and (iii) project
implementation and management (including support to the DHS) At the outset, it was recognized that the
first two objectives (i e., restoration of basic services and the development of a new health policy) were
achievable within the time frame of the proposed program However, it was recognized that the task of
health manpower capacity building and the full implementation of the new health policy would be expected
to extend beyond the period of the project.
The HSRDP was conceived as the initial financing of a three phase program of assistance by the
international community. It was estimated that the reconstruction costs of the health system would amount
to about $38 million This project, the Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
(HSRDP II) will run in parallel with the HSRDP for 8 months with a total implementation period of 27
months The components of the project: (i) Support On-going service delivery; (ii) Improve the range and
quality of services and develop/implement supporting systems, and (iii) Develop and implement health
sector policy and management systems continue to support the key objectives of the JAM report. The
components have been reformulated: (a) to reflect the progress made over the past 12 months in restoring
basis service delivery; and (b) to be consistent with the program budget structure established for DHS and
into which all expenditures in support of health are framed -- irrespective of source of financing. Thus for
each expenditure program, sub-program and activity the source of finance (Consolidated Fund for East
Timor (CFET), TFET and donor agency) is shown Component (i) of the project aims to maintain and
sustain services which have been restored -- albeit with a certain degree of fragility. Component (ii) aims
to deepen and extend the range of basic health services (e.g., health promotion, reproductive health,
immunization and child health, and communicable disease control) and strengthen them by ensuring key
support systems including strengthening referral systems and establishing a rational and sustainable
hospital system. Component (iii) aims to continue to support for the health policy development process and
provide resources to implement the policy as well as strengthening systems management, health sector
human planning and training. This component also provides support to the Project Management Unit
(PMU) to assist the DHS manage project inputs to the overall health program.
The program's policy framework, supported by both HSRDP and HSRDP II, addresses two key
cross-cutting issues of risk pooling and cost containment. The program supported by the two projects
contributes to broad risk pooling by supporting the continuing operation of secondary and tertiary care
facilities that do not currently charge fees (but in which user fees may be gradually introduced depending
on the country's health policy). Further, cost containment is supported by focusing on the provision of a
basic set of primary health care services at the sub-district level within the context of an overall district
health strategy that includes an health promotion and education component and other components of the
"best buys" basic health services package (see Section B of main text). Many of the issues that will be
addressed in the health policy development component of the project have additional implications for cost
containment. Specific examples include: (a) the role of the government in the health system; (b)
inter-sectoral linkages in health; (c) user fees and altemative forms of health financing; (d) basic health
services package; (e) essential drugs list; and (f) the role of the private sector.
- 48 -



2. Range of Alternatives Considered in Project Design
The strategic thrust of the JAM report, and the design of both HSRDP and HSRDP II, assumes that
initially East Timor will have a traditional developing country health sector model in which the government
(in this case supported by NGOs) is the main provider of health care. Although some provision of services
by local NGOs is anticipated (mainly church-sponsored clinics), it is not expected that either commercial
(for-profit) providers or private pharmacies will be operating on any significant scale for some time [see
End Note 1]. Although some private provision of health services is expected in the future (possibly through
side practices by government health workers), the Timorese health professionals fear the development of an
uncontrolled commercial health sector before the government has developed the necessary regulatory
systems.
The main alternative considered in program design would involve the government leaving the provision of
outpatient curative care to the private sector Under this altemative, government would focus exclusively
on the provision of public health services (i.e , services whose social benefits differ from their private
benefits together with a limited set of highly cost-effective and mostly preventive services) and on the
provision of secondary and tertiary care. Under this alternative, curative outpatient care would be mainly
provided by church-sponsored clinics (about 20 of which are currently in operation) as well as by village
midwives and other private practitioners (most of whom initially would be former government health
workers).
This alternative was rejected mainly for the three reasons. First, the supply of services would be
inadequate initially to meet demand Consequently, there would be a danger that foreign commercial
providers would establish practices with private commercial interests being able to exploit consumer
ignorance and limited government regulatory capacity (as has occurred in Cambodia). The second reason
is that it would be very difficult to provide good-quality primary care under conditions in which preventive
and curative care were provided separately. Third, the poor would not enjoy the same degree of access to
health services under this alternative model. Although in principle it would be possible for the government
to provide targeted subsidies to the poor that would enable them to access private services, the capacity to
identify the poor effectively (targeting) and to administer voucher or other demand-side financing schemes
is not yet in place
Another set of alternatives considered during program design involved the drug procurement and
distribution system. In addition to the alternative selected (i.e., an autonomously managed public sector
entity) the alternatives of resurrecting the former Indonesian system and a purely private sector system
were considered. The former Indonesian system, in which drug procurement for the government health
system was managed by a department of the Indonesian Ministry of Health, was rejected because of its
inefficiency and lack of transparency A purely private system was rejected because it was judged that the
market was too small (especially in the presence of widespread smuggling) to support an efficient private
enterprise performing the broad range of functions needed. There was also concern that a purely private
distribution system would be limited to the major towns and would act as an agent for private
pharmaceutical firms in promoting branded drugs. The establishment of an autonomously managed public
sector entity, independent of the Ministry of Health, was judged to be a good compromise between these
two alternatives
There are no surveys or other sources of information presently available that provide reliable information
on demand patterns. In the absence of such information it is difficult to determine whether Timorese are
prepared to utilize health services provided by government facilities at the sub-district level sufficiently to
-49 -



justify the major investment the project will make in rehabilitating them. The existence in most districts of
church-sponsored clinics, which mainly provide curative outpatient services and charge fees, could imply
that the population was not entirely satisfied with government-provided services in the past. On the other
hand, current plans are focused on the need to provide better-quality services in government facilities than
were provided previously. Clear evidence of this intention is the decision to avoid over-staffing of primary
care facilities so that the staff working in them can be paid adequately. There is some evidence from clinic
attendance records documented as part of the quarterly monitoring reports from the districts that annual per
capita visits (equivalent) have been increasing over the past 6 months -- nevertheless the reports also
indicate that clinic visits are lower than the health status of the population suggest demand should be.
The benefits provided by the project are likely to be equitably distributed among the Timorese population.
The staff of the DHS, as well as Timorese political leaders, have a strong commitment to health equity.
Early health policy documents have stressed the need to provide equal access to basic health services.
Although recent estimates are not available on the incidence of poverty in East Timor (the 1998 estimates
were 36%), a majority of the population were probably below the poverty line in FY2000. It is probable
that the situation in FY2002 has improved somewhat as a consequence of improved economic activity but it
remains true that the incidence of poverty in East Timor is probably remains high. The Living Standards
Measurement Survey currently under way and the proposed Demographic Health Survey under the project
will bench mark this and greatly assist in designing targeted health interventions for the poor.
Accordingly, the DHS does not plan to charge fees for health services during the immediate future. The
project's health policy component supports the development and testing of effective targeting methods to
enable the poor to be exempted from fees if and when they are imposed in the future.
3. Assessment of Fiscal Impact and Financial Sustainability
It is hard to estimate the budget envelop for the system since it will depend, to a large extent, on the policy
decisions that will be made by the DHS and the administration on the relative importance of the health
sector for public financing. The recurrent costs for operating the health system if no changes are made in
the general policy direction of the system are estimated to be US $7.5 million in year 1, $8.3 million in year
2 and $ 9.5 million in year 3. By comparison, the size of next years (FY02) overall governmental recurrent
budget (CFET) is expected to be about $64 million with forward estimates in FY04 (assuming total
expenditure can grow 5 percent per annum in real terms) being $71 million. This would mean recurrent
health costs would absorb about 11 percent of the budget in FY02 and 13 percent by FY04. Health would
thus absorb a modest share of the total budget. Some savings may be expected from the cost containment
measures (discussed above) but that will be considered in the project's health policy development
component. On the other hand, every effort is also being made to establish a demand driven health system.
The number of hospital beds currently proposed is modest by comparison to many other countries. The
strategy is to establish core infrastructure and ensure it is well utilized before new and additional
infrastructure is established. The old health system has been characterized by plentiful infrastructure and
staff and gross under utilization The new system is designed to be well utilized and demand responsive
East Timor has had low utilization of health systems in the past -- well below what a typical country with
the health profile of East Timor could expect By focussing on restructured inputs and demand creation the
basis is there for a cost effective and responsive health system which is sustainable.
4. Quantitative Analysis (CBA and CEA)
The limited data currently available in East Timor (as a new country), as well as the questionable reliability
of some of the data available from Indonesian sources, makes it difficult to prepare empirically based
cost-benefit analysis (CBA) or cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) [see end note 2]. The project's design, as
- 50 -



a mixture of service delivery, policy and system development, also complicates the use of quantitative
project analysis techniques. However, it may still be useful to provide order of magnitude estimates of the
project's economic benefits in relation to its costs.
4.1 Cost-benefit analysis
The program supported by HSRDP and HSRDP II, as discussed, supports three programs: (i) Support
On-going service delivery; (ii) Improve the range and quality of services and develop/implement supporting
systems; and (iii) Develop and implement health sector policy and management systems. The broad
benefits and costs of the first two components are examined jointly. The third component is assumed to
support the other two, and its costs are distributed between the first two components in proportion to their
total costs.
4.1.1  Support On-Going Service Delivery and Improve The Range and Quality of Services
Prior to the conflict available evidence suggests that the health status of East Timor's population was
relatively poor, both compared to the rest of Indonesia and to other countries in the region. For example,
the UN estimates that the under 5 mortality rate for East Timor was 201 during the period 1995-99, while
average life expectancy at birth was only 47.5 [see end note 3]. Other estimates suggest that the under 5
mortality rate is about 124 and average life expectancy at birth is 55-58 years. According to the 1997
Indonesia DHS (but presumably based on a very small sample for East Timor), the contraceptive
prevalence rate was 27 percent (compared to 57% for all Indonesia) and the TFR was 4.43 (compared to
2.78 for all Indonesia). Subsequent to the violence, most of East Timor's doctors (130 of 160), as well as
most of its senior health administrators, retumed to Indonesia. Much of the country's health infrastructure
was also seriously damaged or destroyed, along with most of its equipment. Although emergency medical
assistance is currently being provided by more than a dozen intemational NGOs, it is anybody's guess
whether the territory's current health status is better or worse than it was before the post-consultation
violence.
Despite ambiguities about the current level of health status indicators, it is clear that in the absence of
continuing donor assistance and the relief assistance provided by 10-15 intemational NGOs (the majority
fnanced initially by the European Commission for Humanitarian Assistance (ECHO) and now by the
HSRDP) the availability of even basic medicines and supplies, including vaccines, would have been
severely limited. Although many nurses, midwives and other staff remain, the country's health system
would clearly cease to function in the absence of the assistance provided through the HSRDP and the
proposed HRSDP II.
Although it is difficult to quantify the impact of a collapsed health system on the health status and social
welfare of East Timorese, it is possible to get some idea by considering the vulnerability of its population to
a number of health problems, based on service delivery statistics from the former health system (Table 1).
In addition to the usual childhood diseases that could be expected to take a terrible toll in the absence of
immunizations and good-quality primary health care for children under 5, the country's two most serious
health problems are malaria and TB Both of these diseases would likely take a heavy toll in lives and
morbidity among both prime working age adults (15-44) and school-age children (5-14) in the absence of a
functioning health system. Although these two age groups have fewer health problems and consequently
use the health system less often than other age groups, the absence of a functioning health system would
clearly affect them as well. In 1998, for example, prime working age adults (15-44) made 538 outpatient
visits per 1,000 to government health facilities (health centers and hospitals, net of referrals) while
school-age children made 583 outpatient visits per 1,000 The comparable figures are 1,260 outpatient
- 51 -



visits per 1,000 among children 0-4 and 1,446 outpatient visits per 1,000 adults age 45 and over.
Table I Diseases Observed in New Outpatients at Public Health Centers in East Timor
Age of new outpatients
5-14             15-44                   45+
Diarrhea                         26 8              17 3                   27 6
Dysentery                         4 8               3 7                    5 2
TB (confirmed)                    0 0               4 0                    8 7
Clinical TB                       0 3              20 8                   440
Leprosy                           0 2               1 8                    21
Malaria (confirmed)              11 4               8 9                    9 6
Clinical malaria                 53 6              41 1                    0 0
Pneumonia                         1 8               0 9                    1 4
Other                             1 0               1 5                    13
Total                           100 0             1000                   1000
Source: Indonesian government health service statistics
East Timor's GDP per capita was estimated to be US$ 431 in 1996 (compared to Indonesia's national
average at the time of US$ 1,153). Since it is believed to have declined by 40-45% in 1999, GDP per
capita in 2000 was probably around US$ 250 and may have recovered to $275 (assuming IMF staff
estimates that GDP growth was 15 percent in real tenns in 2000). Since East Timor's economy is
predominantly agricultural (and will continue to be during the period of the project), the significant loss of
manpower (including the time of family members caring for the sick) that would occur from these and other
diseases would have a significant adverse impact on economic output. If the health services provided by
the project improved overall labor productivity by only 5 percent annually, this would translate into annual
benefits of more than US$ 10 million (Table 2).
In addition to agricultural output, the value of nonagricultural home production not included in GDP (in
which women and children probably play the major role) is also likely to be adversely affected by a
collapsed health system. If the value of home production is equal to only 20 percent of GDP and labor
productivity in home work is increased by only 10 percent by the project's health services (given that labor
is the main input in home production), there would be an additional benefits of more than US$ 4 million
annually (Table 2).
In addition, improving the health of school-age children and their teachers ought to significantly increase
the returns to the substantial investments in education that are projected to occur during the life of the
project. In addition to morbidity-related effects, a zero return would be obtained from cumulative
investments in the schooling of children who die before they enter the work force. According to the JAM
reports, external financing of East Timor's schools is expected to be US$14.8 million in 2000, US$25.6
million in 2001, and US$ 17.4 million in 2002. Even if the gains in educational productivity due to the
health project are only 10 percent, this would translate into additional benefits of US$ 1.5-2 6 million per
year (Table 2).
These are admittedly crude estimates of the annual net economic benefits from the program calculated in
2000 [see end note 4], but their magnitude is impressive (US$ 16-20 million annually) and are based on
- 52 -



assumptions that remain generally valid. When properly discounted and compared to the discounted
annual costs of the project they imply a cost-benefit ratio of about 0.6 (Table 2). Moreover, the estimates
in Table 2 do not include an imputed economic value for the substantial (but difficult to estimate)
additional welfare gains, due to reduced pain and suffering and losses of life, that would accrue to the
population from reduced morbidity and mortality.
Additionally, the net benefits of the project's investment in developing system capacity are also substantial
For example, in the case of the pharmaceutical procurement and distribution system, the World Bank and
WHO have estimated that as much as 70 percent of all drug expenditure can be effectively wasted when
these functions are performed inefficiently. [see end note 5.] Such losses occur from a variety of
inefficiencies, including: ordering unneeded drugs or the wrong quantities, paying higher than necessary
prices, losses due to frequent stockouts and to holding drugs beyond their expiration date, and losses due to
pilferage. In the current project, spending on drugs is projected to cost US$ 2 6 million in year 1. If drugs
were procured and distributed less efficiently, the cost could be as much as 70 percent higher (US$1 8
million) in year 1 alone. Clearly, the project's investment in an efficient drug procurement and distribution
system should be very cost-effective.
Table 2 Benefit-cost Analysis of Project's Service Delivery Component
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Totals
Benefits (US$):
GDP                            10687500    11951404    13364777        36003681
Home production                 4275000      4780562      5345911      14401472
Education                       1482100      2559800      1736300       5778200
Total benefits                 16444600    19291765    20446987        56183353
Discounted total benefits      16444600    17537968    16898337        50880905
Costs (US$):
Recurrent cost                  7825000      9848000    10980000       28653000
Capital cost                    1274900      1430300      1004200       3709400
Total costs                     9099900    11278300    11984200        32362400
Discounted total costs          9099900    10253000       9904298      29257198
Discounted net social           7344700      7284968      6994039      21623708
benefits
Cost-benefit ratio                                                     0 575013
Source See text and footnote #5
4.1.2 Develop and Implement Health Sector Policy and Management Systems.
This component of the program supports: (a) policy development; (b) system design/implementation; (c)
human resource development; and (d) the PMU. These first three sub-programs are basically investment
activities. Thus, their benefits can be expected to extend beyond the three-year life of the project. Their
main effect is potentially to reduce the cost of providing a given level and quality of health services In the
policy component, for example, many of the issues that will be addressed by the project have the potential
to reduce the social cost of providing health services. One example is user fees. In the absence of user
fees, the government has to rely more heavily on tax financing of health services. Since the administrative
and distortionary costs of financing health services through taxes are likely to be quite high in East Timor,
- 53 -



use of alternative forms of financing could be associated with significantly lower social costs. For
example, if the social cost of collecting additional tax revenue is as much as one dollar per dollar of
additional revenue raised (i.e., higher than estimates for the US but about the same as estimates for
Sweden), each dollar of financing through user fees would be associated with real savings of one dollar. In
addition, user fees can be expected to reduce social losses due to moral hazard (i.e., the economic burden of
excessive consumption due to pricing at less than marginal cost)
To get an order-of-magnitude idea of the potential benefits from user fees alone, assume that marginal cost
pricing were applied to only one-fourth of the recurrent costs of the health system (Table 2). This would
reduce tax financing by approximately US$1.5-2.5 million dollars annually and produce an equivalent
economic benefit in only one year (due to the reduction in deadweight loss of an equivalent amount). If
user fees also reduce loss from moral hazard for these services by an amount equal to 10 percent of
recurrent costs, this would contribute additional economic benefits of US$ 0.6-1.0 million dollars per year
In other words, the social gains from only one policy reform might produce annual economic benefits of the
same order of magnitude as the project's entire expenditure on the policy component. The potential social
benefits from this component of the project are indeed large relative to its cost.
The economic gains from the project's human resource sub-component are also potentially quite large. For
example, each family doctor trained who is able to replace a foreign doctor produces a savings to the health
system of US$ 20,256 per year (i.e., the difference between the project's estimated annual cost of a foreign
family doctor, US$ 22,800, and that of a Timorese doctor, US$2,544). The discounted value of these
annual savings over a ten-year period (assuming a discount rate of 10%) would be US$ 124,464. Of
course, this assumes that the Timorese doctors trained abroad return to practice in the Timorese health
system. Training of other medical staff should produce benefits in the form of improved outcomes and also
allow substitution of nurses and nurse practitioners for doctors in many part of the system
The Project Implementation and Management component of the project provides both recurrent and capital
assistance to the DHS and a set of key management skills required to manage the capital inputs to the
program
4.2 Cost-effectiveness Analysis
Much of the project's resources will be used to support a package of mainly primary health services, most
components of which have been shown to be cost-effective in a variety of settings [see End Note 6]. The
DHS has already prepared documents that highlight key services to be provided over the coming 1-2 years
The project provides resources to fully develop and initiate these services including: (a) health education
and promotion; (b) maternal and child health (including emergency referrals for obstetric complications);
(c) other reproductive health services, (d) TB, and (e) malaria/vector borne disease control among others.
5. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
5.1 Sensitivity Analysis
Since project benefits are found to exceed project costs in all years, varying the discount rate has no effect
on the qualitative conclusions that are obtained from the cost-benefit analysis. For example, increasing the
discount rate from 10 percent to 12 percent would not significantly change the cost-benefit ratio in the
analysis of the project's service delivery component (Table 2) However, if the productivity enhancing
effects of the project's health services were assumed to be only half as large as in the analysis presented in
Table 2, the cost-benefit ratio would rise to 1.20 and the service delivery component of the project would
- 54 -



appear no longer to be desirable on economic grounds. However, as mentioned above, the analysis in
Table 2 does not include any imputed value for the reduced pain and suffering and loss of life that would be
directly attributable to the project-provided health services. If this were included, it is likely that the project
would again appear to reflect a socially desirable use of resources.
5.2 Risk Analysis
The main risk to the project's financial sustainability would arise from the possibility that economic growth
would be slower than anticipated. In this case, the country's rapidly growing population will increase the
demand for health services while the government's ability to provide them will stagnate. Under these
conditions both access and quality are likely to decline while the distribution of benefits would be likely to
become increasingly skewed toward higher income groups (as is typically the case in other under-funded
government health systems). Alternatively, the same scenario might instead lead to continuing heavy
dependence on donor financing of recurTent health system costs. On the other hand, the project's policy
development component will consider many issues that have the potential to reduce the cost of the public
health system, including: (a) the overall role of the government in the health system; (b) the role of the
private sector; and (d) alternative financing measures (e g., user fees, community financing, health
insurance).
Institutional risks, particularly those associated with the transition from International NGO management of
district health services to East Timorese management of the services is discussed below.
6. Institutional Capacity
Institutional capacity is currently very limited in East Timor Most of the senior government officials,
including most doctors and senior health officials, were Indonesian and have since left the territory.
However, the DHS will be provided with substantial resources for capacity development through the
project and other sources. Moreover, the DHS is expected to continue to function under UNTAET through
Independence which is expected in 2002 -- at a date to be finalized -- over which time it will continue to
receive substantial long-term technical assistance. Accordingly, it is not anticipated that the limited
Timorese institutional capacity at this time will be a serious constraint to the implementation of the project
One aspect of institutional capacity deserves special mention. Since the international response to the
emergency international NGOs working with the embryonic district health administration of the DHS, as
discussed, have been central to the re-establishment of district health services. However, the current level
of financial support to the NGOs is unsustainable. Thus, with most of the planned East Timorese staff in
both the central DHS, and in the districts, now coming into position planning is now well advanced for a
transition of responsibility for district health services. The district health management team of districts will
begin to take responsibility for the planning,and management of district health plans from the NGOs while
service/policy advisors who may be supplied by NGOs shift to a supporting role rather than that of a
management/logistics function. In this process it is likely that there will be fewer NGOs supported by
donors and the public fisc and that those who remain in (or are attracted to enter) East Timor are likely to
be "developmental" NGOs rather than some of the existing NGOs who specialize in emergency situations
This will not be an easy process and it is fraught with implementation risks -- nevertheless the key building
blocks are being put in place. Specifically, continued financing under the project for policy support to the
districts and the central DHS, the establishment of an autonomous medical store entity, significant
transport capacity are being put in place by DHS.
- 55 -



7. Contribution to Poverty Alleviation
No post-conflict poverty assessment (or a poverty profile) is yet available for East Timor. However, given
its predominantly rural population, predominantly agricultural economy and weak rural infrastructure, it is
likely that most poverty is rural and concentrated in the agricultural sector. Under these conditions, poor
health is likely to be a very serious constraint on the income-earning potential of the poor (whose main
source of income is their own manual labor) In East Timor, poor adult health is largely a consequence of
malaria and TB, both of which can be addressed through an effective and broadly accessible primary health
system. By strengthening this system the project is likely to contribute significantly to the labor resources
of the poor and thereby to contribute to the alleviation of income poverty even in the short run. At the same
time, the improved health of poor school children that will result from the project will raise their learning
productivity and contribute additionally to poverty alleviation over the longer term. Finally, the increased
access to good-quality primary health care will effectively supplement the cash incomes of the poor,
resulting in substantial improvements in their welfare beyond what is registered in usual poverty measures.
8. Environmental Impact
Malaria and dengue fever are both highly endemic in East Timor However, the health system does not
plan to use mosquito vector control measures (e.g., spraying of pesticides) that would be likely to have
adverse effects on the environment. Instead, other measures will be used that have less serious
environmental effects (e.g., treated bed nets, health education). An additional environmental concern is the
disposal of medical waste The project will provide hospitals with incinerators that will be used to dispose
of their own medical waste as well as that of nearby health centers
Cleaning up of the hospital and clinic sites that are covered with the rubble resulting from the damage to
the health infrastructure will clean and improve the general environment. This will also remove one
potential health danger: the white asbestos contained in the building rubble. The Environmental unit of
ETTA, with the support of the DHS, have developed guidelines for the safe removal and disposal of
building rubble. They are supported in this with technical assistance from AusAID.
9. Economic Performance Indicators
In the short-term, the program's design assumes that good-quality primary health care services can be
provided through a government health system and NGOs and that the population will use these services if
they are available Although the quality of care can and should be directly measured and monitored, two
economic indicators that have been shown in other settings to be very good proxies for quality in primary
care systems are: (a) "the average salary levels of medical personnel (adjusted for changes in consumer
prices)," and (b) "the proportion of phannaceuticals and supplies in the total budget." The reason that
these indicators are so quality-sensitive is the tendency of government-managed systems to employ more
health workers than they can afford to pay adequately and to reduce non-personnel expenditures to free up
funds to pay the salaries of their numerous employees. The result is under-paid health workers who lack
the incentive to provide good-quality care, as well as acute shortages of necessary complementary inputs.
When salaries shrink and medicines and supplies become scarce, consumers tend to avoid public health
facilities and shift their demand for health care to the private sector Since government-managed facilities
nevertheless tend to retain their staff when faced with declining utilization, reductions in utilization are
typically manifested in declining labor productivity. Therefore an additional economic indicator that is
sensitive to quality is the "number of visits to primary care facilities per primary care provider (i.e.,
doctors, nurses, midwives) " These indicators are included in the monitoring indicators for the
- 56 -



project/program (or can be calculated based on the information provided)
Poor quality in the hospital sector also tends to lead to lower utilization of inpatient services, particularly in
secondary hospitals (since quality tends to decline last in tertiary care facilities) The under-utilization of
secondary hospitals is usually most evident in their occupancy rates, which often hover around 20 percent
in poorly funded health systems. Therefore, the "occupancy rate in secondary hospitals" ought to be a
good economic indicator for inpatient services
10. Overall Project Justification
An important feature of the program is that it is a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP) to donor assistance.
The main benefit of a SWAP in the current context is that it will not overburden the limited capacity of the
DHS. In fact it should help to free up staff time to deal with important policy development issues as well
as to benefit from capacity building resources provided by the project. A secondary benefit of a SWAP is
that it will help the DHS to avoid a situation in which individual donors channel assistance to individual
projects so that the system becomes a series of vertical programs with many duplicative functions (e g.,
training, logistics, MIS, M&E).
Although the service delivery and financing approaches adopted by the project (i e., direct provision by the
govermment, tax and donor financing) are fairly conventional by developing country standards and
appropriately raise questions, the fact that this aspect of the project has not been preceded (and could not
have been) by a systematic policy development process makes it difficult to strike out in more innovative
directions at this time. Instead, the project will support such a policy development process, at the end of
which the Timorese government is likely to make significant modifications to the service delivery and
financing system that is initially put into place. Most importantly, the project does not preclude or
constrain future policy options. The policy development process in the DHS, exclusively the responsibility
of the East Timorese, and involving other East Timorese stakeholders in the health system, is strongly
owned by the staff. The learning by doing approach is itself institutional capacity building and will enable
the East Timorese health professionals to present developed policy and strategy options to the new
Independent Government in 2002.
End Notes
i  One notable exception is the private clinics and health insurance program administered by the Coffee
Plantation Cooperative (CAFE Timor)
2  Some of the more reliable Indonesian data sources involve national surveys (e g , DHS) in which East Timor's
population (less than one-half of one percent of Indonesia's total) is not very well represented This implies that
East Timor-specific survey-based statistics have very large sampling errors
3 The fact that the 1997 Indonesia DHS obtained an estimate of only 49 for the under 5 mortality rate illustrates
the unreliability of the available health data for East Timor
4 The assumptions used to obtain the estimates in Table 2, in addition to those already provided in the text are as
follows: GDP per capita is assumed to grow at 10 percent per annum from a year I value of US$250; the project's
capital cost is assumed to be equal to 10 percent of the cumulative project investment costs in each year; the 1998
population of East Timor is assumed to be 855,000 and to grow at 1 66% per annum; and the discount rate is
assumed to be 10 percent
5 The World Bank, Better Health in Africa, 1994, p 76ff
6 Investing in Best Buys: A Review of the Health, Nutrition and Population Portfolio, FY1993-99 (World Bank,
December, 2000)
- 57 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
NA
- 58 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will follow the Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and revised in September
1997 and January 1999. Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all activities wholly or partly
financed by the Association, or where standard documents are not available, bidding documents acceptable
to the Association will be used.
Selection of Consultant Services will be based on the Bank Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999. Standard Request for Proposals for selection of Consultants will be used for all
Association-financed selection or where standard documents are not available, bidding documents
acceptable to the Association will be used.
The Procurement Plan for July 2000 - June 2002 providing a timeline for major procurement of works
together with a plan for the procurement of goods and consultant services is available on the project file. A
quarterly update will be reviewed by the Association throughout the life of the project.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
An assessment of project procurement capacity is available on project file In summary the key findings
were.
Legal Framework - The Government procurement regulations in place are, in general, acceptable
to the Association. (UNTAET/REG/2000/10) On Public Procurementfor Civil Administration in East
Timor, was prepared with the assistance of World Bank funded consultants. These regulations are
supported by the "Public Procurement Manualfor Civil Administration in East Timor." Regulation
2000/10 contains conflict of interest clauses (Section 29), as does Section 10 of the manual. The
regulations require advertisement in the official Gazette of East Timor for all invitations to bid goods,
works and services to be procured either nationally or intemationally (Section 9 - see comment viii below)
The regulations require public bid opening on the date and time of bid submission (Section 17), and state
that all bids shall be evaluated based only on the criteria set forth in the bidding documents (Section 20).
Section 10 of the manual, "Procurement Methods", states that: all procurement shall be conducted through
an open tendering process: that all bidders shall be given a minimum of 30 calendar days to respond to an
invitation to bid, and contains a gratuity clause in addition to a conflict of interest clause All public
procurement is bound by these regulations. Section 2.2 of UNTAET/REG/2000/10 provides that for
Association/Donor funded procurement IBRD procurement guidelines have precedence in case of
discrepancy.
The regulations provide the PMU with delegated authority up to $100,000 equivalent for project
procurement. For procurement actions estimated at $ 100,000 or greater (for works, good or consultant
services) a Contracts Review Committee (CRC) established by UNTAET conducts a review. The CRC
review process does not replace the Association prior review thresholds summarized in Table B.
There are both minor and major aspects of (UTNTAET/REG/2000/1 0), which are not compliant
- 59 -



with "Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (the Guidelines) published in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, in summary:
(i)    Section 4 restricts payment to US Dollars, whereas the Association allows payment and
bids to be in the currency of any member country.
(ii)   Section 5.2 provides for restricted tendering, which is more fully expanded in Section 21,
and sub sections (a) and (b) are more consistent with Limited International Bidding, (LIB) and Shopping
procedures respectively. In its present form 5.2 provides an exception to National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures which are in conflict with NCB procedures as detailed in paragraph 3.3 of the
Guidelines.
(iii)   Section 5.3 provides for two-stage tendering.
(iv)   Section 5.4 provides for solicitation of quotations with threshold which are very high
compared to thresholds applicable in standard Association procurement under quotations and particularly
high for projects where procurement is assessed as high risk. Sub section (c) sets a minimum threshold
which should not apply to Association financed procurement.
(v)    Section 5.5 provides for single source (direct contracting) and Sub-section (a) sets a
minimum threshold which should not apply to Association financed procurement.
(vi)   Sections 5 7 and 5.8 provide direction on determining whether to conduct procurement
nationally or internationally. This is a major deviation from the Guidelines which give preference to
international bidding whereas the Regulations give preference to national bidding below a threshold of US$
I million.
(vii)  Section 8, Contents of Invitation does not include (a) a completion schedule, (b) the draft
contract, and (c) the bid evaluation criteria.
(viii)  Section 9 1 requires invitation to bid / to qualify to be published in the Official Gazette of
East Timor, and the minimum duration to close of bids is not specified.
(ix)   Sections 10 - 13 Do not clearly specify pre-qualification requirements.
(x)    Section 16, Does not provide guidance on the amount of bid security.
(xi)   Section 25.2, Does not require the inclusion of the draft contract form in the RFP packages
for consulting services.
The Annex to Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement sets forth UNTAET's agreement that those
sections of the Regulations in conflict with the Guidelines will not apply to Association funded
procurement.
In addition to the above discrepancies between the regulations covering procurement and World
Bank guidelines, National Laws and Regulations on the establishment of corporations and their operation,
for example bankruptcy provisions, are yet to be promulgated. Initial drafts have been prepared and final
drafts are expected in July 2001. Current regulations accept as a national firm, companies with a resident
office in East Timor, registered with UNTAET/ETTA and paying tax. There is an issue in eligibility for a
margin of domestic preference (2.54 b of the Guidelines) companies, which are incorporated and managed
from a head office located in another country and foreign owned should not be eligible for a margin of
domestic preference. The Grant Agreement does not provide for a margin for domestic
preference.
Institutional Arrangements - The recipient of the Grant is UTNTAET. Overall coordination of
the health program is with the Division of Health Services (DHS) in the East Timor Transitional
Administration (ETTA), the institution established by UNTAET to manage and implement government
programs The health program is financed through a sector wide approach, which comprises funding
drawn from CFET, TFET, the UNTAET trust fund, multi-lateral and bi-lateral sources. The project is
- 60 -



funded by TFET and, under an agreement with the European Commission (EC) construction and provision
of medical equipment and furniture for new and rehabilitated hospitals is to be jointly funded by the EC and
the IDA administered TFET. The agreement between IDA and the EC is expected to be finalized by March
15, 2002, before the hospital construction / rehabilitation phase commences. The Project Management
Unit, (PMU) will be directly responsible for implementation of the TFET funded project, and, under the
agreement to be finalized, the EC / TFET jointly funded hospital component
The Director of the PMU will be the head of the DHS. The Program Manager of the PMU will be
responsible for the day to day operations of the PMU and will report to the Cabinet Member for Social
Affairs through the Head of DHS The PMU Manager will be supported by TFET funded staff in the
positions of a Finance Officer, counterpart to the Head Sub-Division of Finance, Administration, Logistics
and Procurement, a Procurement Officer, counterpart to the Head of the Logistics and Procurement
Section, and a Senior Procurement Advisor, on periodic assignment, overseeing procurement planning and
management within the PMU. The appointment of a Health Policy and Management Specialist is a
condition of project effectiveness and the continuation of the above positions established and operating
under the HSRD project are a condition for project implementation. The PMU Finance Unit will have
primary responsibility for the financial management of the program, it will carry out financial planning,
sector wide budgeting, accounting and reporting functions for the program. The UNTAET Central Fiscal
Authority (CFA) will provide overall guidance and supervision of the PMU Finance Unit to ensure that
functions are carried out in accordance with the agreed guidelines. The primary responsibility for
maintaining accounting records for the project will be with the PMU Finance Officer. The PMU Finance
Unit with the guidance of the CFA have established accounting and internal control procedures for
authorizing payments, recording of all project related expenditures, periodic financial reporting and
preparation of annual financial statements for external audit, the arrangements will be continued for the
proposed project.
Procurement of Civil Works
(a) International Competitive Bidding, ICB, in accordance with the provisions of Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), will be used for all contracts US$500,000 and above
equivalent for the construction and rehabilitation of four hospitals. It is expected contracts will be prepared
in three packages, ranging from US$ 1.3 million to US$ 5.0 million, and will not exceed an aggregate of
US$ 8.7 million. A call for expressions of interest will follow a specific procurement notice in
Development Business, an advertisement the national press, and notification to all embassies and
diplomatic missions to effect a pre-qualification of bidders.
(b) National Competitive Bidding, NCB- will be used for all contracts in an amount less than US$500,000
and greater than US$100,000 equivalent for rehabilitation and construction of the Central Laboratory and
Centro Clinic, expected to be tendered as two contracts of US$ 450,000 to US$ 250,000, respectively for
an aggregate of US$ 700,000. A significant number of foreign companies have established offices in East
Timor. Experience with the tender for health centers and in the education project tenders for the prototype
schools indicate that capacity is present and competitive - although there should be the caution that there
has still been relatively little construction funded by TFET completed in East Timor and bids tend to vary
very widely - that is there are no real "bench mark" prices yet. NCB procedures will not discriminate
against foreign bidders, and standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association will be used In
addition to the use of standard bidding documents for NCB the Annex to Schedule 3 of the grant
Agreement details UNTAET agreement that sections of the East Timor regulations covering procurement
which are not compliant with Bank Guidelines (as detailed above in the Procurement Capacity Assessment
- 61 -



on file) will not be applicable to procurement funded by the project.
(c) Procurement of Small Works, will be financed in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines; prospective bidders will be provided as a minimum a detailed description of the
works, including specifications, required completion date, relevant drawings and a contract agreement
acceptable to the Association price comparison of at least three quotations will be used and the contract
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders for contracts in an amount less than US$ 100,000 equivalent, for
minor works which in aggregate will not exceed US$600,000.
Procurement of Goods
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB): will be used for all contracts (principally for phannaceuticals,
hospital equipment and furniture, health center equipment and HF radio communications equipment)
US$200,000 and above equivalent, to an estimated aggregate of US$ 3 01 million.
(b) Shopping procedures, (International) IS, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines, where solicitation of at least three bids from qualified bidders from a minimum of two
different counties, will be used for contracts for goods in an amount less than US$100,000 and greater than
US$50,000 to an estimated aggregate of US$120,000.
(c) Shopping procedures, (National Shopping) NS, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines, with solicitation of at least three bids from qualified bidders will be used for
contracts for goods in an amount less than US$50,000 to an estimated aggregate of US$100,000 except
where direct contracting is used.
(d) Direct Contracting, DC: will be used for the procurement of spare parts for transport and replacement
of minor medical equipment in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 (b) of the Guidelines, to
ensure standardization of equipment and spare parts with existing equipment No single contract is
expected to exceed US$10,000, and the aggregate will not exceed US$70,000.
Procurement of Services
For Firms
(a) Quality and Cost Based Selection; QCBS: will be used for all contracts in an amount greater than
US$100,000 equivalent, for design and supervision services for hospital construction and rehabilitation, a
demographic and health survey, and to support the provision of district health services and district health
service capacity building to an estimated aggregate of US$ 2.2 million.
(b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; CQ, will be used for all contracts for health promotion,
capacity building in health policy and change management in an amount less than US$100,000. The
estimated aggregate is US$311,000.
(c) Single-Source Selection, SSS, in accordance with paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, will be used to
finance the second phase of the contract to manage the Autonomous Medical Supply Entity as detailed in
the terms of reference of the contract awarded following modified QCBS procedures in the first phase of
the project. The original request for proposals and the awarded contract foresaw a second phase subject to
availability of funds through this second phase project and thus is in compliance with 3.9 (a) of the
Guidelines. Single-Source Selection is also envisaged for contracting UN Agencies (WHO, UNFPA and
- 62 -



UNICEF) for specialized policy and legal services in accordance with 3.9 (d) of the Guidelines. In
aggregate Single-Source selection will not exceed US$620,000.
(d) Least Cost Selection. LCS, in accordance with part 3.7 of the Guidelines will be used for contracting
annual procurement audits estimated at US$120,000.
For Individuals
(a) Selection of individual consultants will be consistent with the provisions of Section V of the Guidelines
and will be used for all contracts with individuals for health planning, doctor recruitment management,
communicable disease surveillance, health regulations, human resource planning, health monitoring and
evaluation, health policy development, health policy advisor, environmental health, development of
administrative procedures financial management management, procurement support and health information
system development in aggregate will not exceed US$2.08 million
Procurement methods (Table A)
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
in US$ million equivalent)
ICB    NCB    IS    SW*        NS   DC    Other   Total
0.61
TFET    (1.20) (0.70)           (0.60)                         (2.5)
2. Goods. Total
(including transportation)   3.54   _ _0.12            0.10  0.07             3.83
TFET    (2.2)          (0. 2)          (0.10) (0.07)          (2.49)
3. Consultants' services
and studies                                                          (6.13)  (6.13)
4. Training (workshops
and fellowships)                                                    (0.80)  (0.80)
5. Operating Costs (of the
PMU)                                                     _(0.28)   (0.28)
TOTAL              12.24   0.70   0.12    0.60    0.10   0.07   7.21    21.0
TOTAL TFET         (3.4)  (0.70) (0.12) (0.60)   (0.10         (7.21)   (12.2)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _0 .0 7 )
*1    SW = Procurement of Small Works (based on a minimum of 3 quotations)
Notes Errors due to rounding
Numbers in parenthesis () financed by TFET
- 63 -



Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
QCBS    CQ        SSS      IND      NBF
A. Firms                    (2.20)   (0.08)  (0.62)
B. Individuals                       (I.15)              2.08
Total                       (2 20)    (1.23)  (0.62)     (2.08)
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   = Quality-based Selection
SFB   = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   = Least-Cost Selection
CQ    = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
SSS   = Single source selection
IND   = Individual Consultant Selection (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not IDA-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Grant
Procurement Review
Prior review by the World Bank of Civil Works and Goods will include: (i) all International Competitive
Bidding (ICB); (ii) all Limited international Bidding Contracts (LIB); (iii) all contracts for works awarded
on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB); (iv) the first contract in works under Minor Works
(MW); and (v) the first contract for goods using International Shopping (IS) procedures. The rest of the
procurement of works and goods will be subject to ex-post review by the Bank, with a target of 20% of
contracts by number and 50% by value to be reviewed.
Prior review by the World Bank of consultant services will involve, (i) prior review of all Terms of
Reference regardless of the estimated value, (ii) contracts US$100,000 or greater for consultant services
provided by firms, (iii) individual consultant contracts of US$50,000 or greater, and (iv) all Sole Source
Selection, SSS, regardless of value. Other procurement of consultant services will be subject to ex-post
review by the Bank, with a target of 20% of contracts by number and 50% by value to be reviewed.
The PMU will submit to the Association a plan for the contracting of consultants with relevant TORs and
cost estimates as part of the Operation Plan every six months. A procurement plan for the six months of
the project, indicating the needs, procurement methodology, time frames and other relevant details were
reviewed and finalized during Appraisal. The plan will be updated very six months during the entire life of
the project, or whenever it is considered necessary by the Association.
Under these arrangements, the prior review of approximately 84 percent of the estimated value of project
items is expected. The Association's supervision missions will conduct random reviews quarterly in the
- 64 -



first year after Effectiveness and half-yearly thereafter for the life of the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value        Procurement           Contracts   Subject
Category             (Threshold)                                 to Prior Review
US $ thousands                             US $ millions
1. Works              > US$ 500,000             ICB                  8.700
US$ 500,000 <            NCB                   0.700
and> US$ 100,000
< $US 100,000             MW                  0.050*1
2. Goods               > US $ 200,000           ICB                   3.540
US$ 100,000 <             IS                  0.100*1
and > US$ 50,000
< USS 50,000             NS                  0.030*1
3. Consulting
Services
-firms             >US$ 100,000            QCBS                 2.200
<US$ 100,000             CQ                  0.08
>US$ 20,000              LC                 0.120
All                 SSS                 0.620
-Individuals       > US$ 50,000           Section V             2.08
*1    First contract
Total value of contracts subject to prior review, 84% of total project costs, US$ 21.4 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High     X
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 month(s) for the first
year, one every 6 months thereafter (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits for
which an accredited procurement specialist will be a member of the team).
- 65 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in US$ million   Financing Percentage
A Civil Works:
Part B.2 (a) of project (hospitals)     1.800               18%
Part B.2 (b) of project (all other CW)  0 .700               100%
B. Goods (including transportation):
Part A.2 of project                     1.600               100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditure for other
items procured locally
18%
Part B.2(a) of project (hospital Equip)    0.128              100% of foreign expenditures,
All other Goods                          0.765              100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditure for other
items procured locally.
C. Consultants' services and studies        6.131              100%
D. Training, Fellowships & Workshops        0.795              100%
E. Incremental Operating Costs              0.277              100%
F. Unallocated                              0.404
Total                                       12.6
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of Grant Proceeds by
Component and Procurement Category
Cat. I             Cat. 2             Cat. 3     Cat. 4    Cat. 5
Civil              Goods            Consultant  Training  Operating
Works                                 Services             Costs
Component     TFET        EC      TFET      EC       TFET       TFET      TFET     Total
Component 1                      1,600,000          1,917,000                    3,517,00
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  0
Component 2  2,500,000  7,500,000  870,500  1,332,000 2,297,000   245,000   42,000  14,786,50
Component 3 1          1          22,500            1,917,000   550,000   235,000  2,724,500
Total     2,500,000  7,500,000 2,493,000 1,332,000  6,131,000   795,000  27,7,000 21,028,00
Note: Unallocated = 404,000; Total TFET Grant = 12,600,000; Total of TFET plus EC = 21,432,000
- 66 -



Financial Management
Disbursement
The project is expected to disburse over a period of 27 months from the date of effectiveness.
Disbursement will be either by direct payment from the IBRD Disbursement Unit, (for individual payments
of USD 200,000 equivalent or more), or through the Special Account. All disbursements for Goods
costing USD 200,000 equivalent or more, Works costing USD 200,000 equivalent or more, and Consulting
Service contracts with firms for USD 100,000 equivalent or more or with individuals for USD 50,000
equivalent or more, will be fully documented under standard prior review procedures, as will all single
source contracts regardless of value. All other payments will be made against certified Statement of
Expenses (SOEs) As there are no taxes on civil works disbursement against this category can be at 100%
Documentation supporting SOE disbursements will be retained by the DHS for a minimum of one year
after receipt by the Association of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
The Association will conduct a review of SOEs half-yearly.
Special Account
UNTAET will establish a TFET Special Account (SA) denominated in USD and held with a
commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association to facilitate project
implementation. The flow of funds to the project will commence with an initial deposit of USD 1.2 million
to the SA. Replenishment Requests will be submnitted through the PMU, on a monthly basis, or when the
balance of the SA is 20 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first. The SA will be audited
annually by independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. All replenishment
requests will be endorsed by signatories from both category A (authorized signatory for the Division of
health Services) and Category B (authorized signatory for the Central Fiscal Authority), and will be
supported by the relevant monthly SA bank statement and contract details.
For expenses incurred for the construction and renovation of hospitals and the provision of medical
equipment and furniture to equip those hospitals, under an agreement to be finalized between the EC and
IDA, disbursements are expected to be processed as direct payment requests for payments of US$200,000
equivalent or more which would be financed at an agreed percentage from the TFET account and an EC
Trust Fund to be established.
Financial Management Assessment
UNTAET have established a Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) which has taken a strong lead in the
development of a national budget. The CFA has promoted the concept of a sector wide program approach
in framing sectoral budgets and has led discussion with sector on the implications for recurrent spending on
capital items to be funded by TFET and other donor financed products. DHS has been cited by the CFA as
a "model of best practice" for its preparation of the FY01 and FY02 budgets. The FY02 budget for health
is structured into 3 major programs (the 3 components of the project are directly aligned with these
programs), sub-programs, activities and projects (which are donor financed). The sources of funding for
these budgets categories are also shown so that for each program or project details are provided on what
resources come from the operating budget (CFET) or from TFET projects I and II and other donor sources.
This is a major development supportive of sensible program management. Clear responsibility for budget
heads are assigned to relevant sections of the DHS and the changed budget structure is now being reflected
in the accounting systems and procedures for FY02.
- 67 -



Proposed Financial Management Arrangements
A Finance officer with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, is in place
funded under HSRDP I. DHS has provided assurances this position will be continued for the second phase
project, and the provision of a finance officer, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, is an
implementation condition for the project. The PMU Finance Unit will have primary responsibility for the
financial management of the Program The PMU Finance Unit will carry out financial planning, budgeting,
accounting and reporting functions for the Program. The Financial Manager will report to the Program
Manager. The Finance officer will support East Timorese colleagues appointed to the positions of Finance
Director and Assistant Finance Director. The CFA will provide overall guidance and supervision of the
PMU Finance Unit to ensure that functions are carried out in accordance with the agreed guidelines
Funds Flow
The funding sources for the program will come from the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET), for
investment costs, and the UNTAET Consolidated Fund for East Timor (CFET), for operating costs.
The flow of funds from TFET, (see Flowchart I), will be initiated by the PMU Procurement Unit,
in conjunction with the PMU Finance Unit, entering into a contract for Works, Goods or Services with a
supplier. Payments to a supplier, will be based on invoices submitted to the PMU Finance Unit in
accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of the contract. On receipt of an invoice for individual
amounts of less than USD 100,000 equivalent, the PMU Finance Unit will prepare a bank payment order,
which will be endorsed by signatories from both Category A (authorized signatory for the Division of
Health Services) and Category B (authorized signatory for the Central Fiscal Authority), before being
forwarded to the bank maintaining the SA. On receipt of the payment order the bank will debit the SA and
forward the requested payment to the supplier by telegraphic transfer. On receipt of an invoice for
individual amounts of greater than USD 200,000 equivalent, the PMU Finance Unit will prepare a direct
payment request. This request will be endorsed by signatories from both Category A (authorized signatory
for the Division of Health Services) and Category B (authorized signatory for the Central Fiscal Authority),
before being forwarded to the IBRD Disbursement Unit for processing of payment directly to the specified
supplier. For small amounts, (less than USD 5,000), for PMU operational costs, (as agreed with the
Association), the PMU Finance Unit will make direct cash payments from an Imprest Account, (USD
10,000), when authorized by a memo from the DHS Director.
The flow of funds from CFET, (see Flowchart 11), is initiated by the development of a draft annual
budget within DHS which is discussed and agreed with Treasury The agreed draft is presented to Cabinet
and on their agreement an Expenditure Authorization Notice (EAN) is issued which sets quarterly
expenditure limits for the three eligible expenditure lines, Goods and Services, Salaries and Wages, and
Capital Items. An annual margin of ten percent flexibility is permitted across expenditure lines with
notification to Treasury, while any variation greater than ten percent of the annual budget for an
expenditure line requires the prior approval of Cabinet. Expenditures from the EAN require the signature
of one of three Agency Authorizing Officers (Health Cabinet Member appointees), who works as
counterpart to the PMU Program Manager. Expenditures from CFET are managed by the DHS Finance
Unit, which acts on the authority of a memo from the PMU program Manager. For expenditures on Goods,
Works and Services the DHS Finance Unit, drafts a Purchase Requisition, (PR), which is endorsed by, (1)
an Agency Authorizing Officer (Health Cabinet Member appointee), (2) the Agency Certifying Officer (a
Health Cabinet Member appointee), and (3) the Treasury Officer nominated by the Central Fiscal
Authority for the Program. The fully endorsed request is then forwarded to the ETTA Procurement Unit.
- 68 -



Payment to suppliers is based on contracts admninistered by the ETTA Procurement Unit and follows
receipt of invoices submitted for Goods and Works, which the ETTA Procurement Unit checks internally,
or invoices for Services which the ETTA Procurement Unit requests the PMU Finance Unit to certify have
been satisfactorily completed. Payment is initiated by raising a Commitment and Payment Voucher,
(CPV), endorsed by the officers as for the PR. The CPV is then forwarded to Treasury which raises a
Payment Order for the Central Payment Office, which in tum effects payment to the supplier through a
Treasury Payment Order, (TPO).
Planning and Budgeting
The fund flow arrangements described above requires careful planning and budgeting to ensure
that financial resources are available for project implementation The preparation of the budget plans for
investment and operating cost components will be the responsibility of the PMU. The budgets will be
prepared for the following categories: (a) investment costs and any operating costs of the PMU to be
financed by the TFET; (b) purchase of drugs by the AMS and financed by CFET; and (c) operating cost
for health facilities and administrative structure (hospitals, clinics, NGOs and church clinics) financed by
CFET.
The budgets should be prepared in such detail to allow meaningful monitoring of Project
implementation. The investment cost budgets should be coordinated with the procurement plan and
supported by a cash forecast for at least three months
Accounting and Reporting
The PMU Financial Unit will have primary responsibility for the financial management of the
program. The PMU Finance Unit will carry out financial planning, sector wide budgeting, accounting and
reporting functions for the program. The Finance Officer will report to the PMU Program Manager The
Financial Officer will support East Timorese colleagues appointed to the positions of Head, Sub-Division
of Finance, Administration, Logistics and Procurement and Head of the Finance Section. The UNTAET
Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) will provide overall guidance and supervision of the PMU Finance Unit to
ensure that functions are carried out in accordance with the agreed guidelines. The primary responsibility
for maintaining accounting records for the project will be with the PMU Finance Officer. The PMU
Finance Unit with the guidance of the CFA have established, under HSRDP I, accounting and internal
control procedures for authorizing payments, recording of all project related expenditures, periodic
financial reporting and preparation of annual financial statements for external audit, the arrangements will
be continued for the proposed project. The accounting system maintains separate project accounts for
TEFT funded activities in accordance with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. The PMU Finance Officer
will ensure that quarterly and annual financial reports comparing budgeted and actual expenditures are
prepared for the proposed project. The formats of the reports are the same as those agreed for HSRDP,
and will be revised and expanded to detail accounting and reporting procedures agreed between the EC and
TFET for the construction, rehabilitation and provision of medical equipment and furniture for hospitals.
The financial reports shall be prepared and submitted to the Association no later than 30 days
following the end of the quarter.
- 69 -



Auditing
The CFA will be responsible to carry out internal auditing of the project activities. The PMU will prepare
annual financial statements for the Project and have them audited by an independent external auditor
acceptable to the Association. The auditor will be required to provide an opinion on the financial
statements, the operations of the Special Account and the withdrawals from the grant based on statements
of expenditures (SOEs). The Autonomous Medical Supply Entity (AMSE) established under HSRDP I as
an independent entity, and operated under commercial principles by a commercial contractor will also be
audited annually by the independent auditor. The audits will also cover expenditures incurred and financed
by the TFET/EC financed agreement for new hospital construction and the provision of medical equipment.
The independent auditor will appointed on terms of reference acceptable to the Association
Financial Management of the Autonomous Medical Supply Entity
The AMSE is being established under HSRDP I as an independent entity, and will be operated under
conmmercial principles and is contracted to a commercial contractor. The establishment of adequate
financial management of AMS is part of the terms of reference of the contractor developed under HSRDP I
to be continued under this second phase project.
- 70 -



Flowchart I
Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
FLOW of TFET Funds
Washington                                                                             BNU
Disbursement                                                                   10     Project
Unit                                                                          Special Account
Replenish    Aprovall
_ Requesat                                          DHCagB  S
Direct  <D/nvoiceay
Paymentues             to  n
DHS Sup DHS
X1 Procurement               itac             ood&ofta sf
Unit                                      servies
- 71 -



Flowchart II
Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Flow of CFET Funds
Cabinet- 
I  t     I                 ~~~~~~~Expenditure
Draft Bude                        Authorization
t                    ~~~~~~~Notice (EAN)
,Payment Order |       -      
Draft Budget|
fCPV) Commitment &Ofie
Payment Vouchure                 4
Memo                         _
; | Paynw~~~~~~~~entOt4-payrtralt
D HS                                       Office
EH-~~~Finance Unit i Jm   he 
I ~~ETTA
t ~~~Unit 
on tra                     I IvoiicI
}   SupplTer                                 l                        l~Suplie
Goods &                                       Treasury Payment Order 
Works
-72 -



Agreed Procurement Review Matrix                                            Attachment I
Types of Procurement and Agencies Responsible to clear and execute
ICB          LIB           NCB              IS             NS   Duration
Typical Procurement
Steps
l(a)    Initiate Procurement Action        PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
I (b)   Approve Procurement Action         Div / Donor  Div / Donor   Div               Div           Div      5 days
2(a)     Specifications and Cost           PMU/TA        PMU/TA        PMU/TA
EstimatesPMU/TA                                               PMU/TA
2(b)     Approve Specifications            Div           Div           Div              Div            Div      5 days
2(c)     Obtain Solicitation               PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
Reference from CAS
3(a)     Prepare Bidding Documents         PMU/TA        PMU/TA        PMU/TA           PMU/TA         PMU/
TA
3(b)     Approve Bidding Documts           PMUJ/Don      PMU/Don       PMU/Don          PMU/Don        PMU/   3 days
Don
3(c)     Prepare Bidders Short List        NA            PMU           NA               PMU            PMU
3(d)     Approve Short List                NA            PMU/Donor   NA                 PM             PMU    3 days
4        Prepare and place
advertisement
Gazette                           PMU           NA            PMU              NA             NA
Development Business              PMU           NA            NA               NA            NA
Local Press                       PMU           NA            PMU>$10,000   NA                NA
Letter to Embassies               PMU           NA            PMU>$10,000   NA               NA
5        Issue Bidding Documents           PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
6(a)     Establish Bid Opening             PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
Committee BOC
6(b)     Establish Bid Evaluation          PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
Committee BEC
7        Open Bids                         PMU/BOC   PMU/BOC           PMU/BOC          PMU/BOC    PMU/
BOC
8(a)     Prepare Bid Evaluation            BEC           BEC           BEC              BEC            BEC
Report (BER)
8(b)     Prepare Contract Document         PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
8(c)     Approve BER and contract          PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU    5 days
document costing less than
US $ 100,000
8(d)     Approve BER and Contract          CC            CC            CC               CC             PMU    5 days
Document costing more than
US 100,000
9(a)     Request PO/Contract No            PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU    I day
9(b)     Sign Contract/Purchase            PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU    I day
Order less than USD100,000
greater than USD100,000           CAS           CAS           CAS              CAS            CAS      1 day
10      Forward copy of Case File to       PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
CAS
11 (a)    Customs Clearance                CAS/PMU    CAS/PMU          CAS/PMU          CAS/PMU        CAS/   2 days
PMU
11(b)    Delivery to PMU warehouse         PMU           PMU           PMU              PMU            PMU
12       Supervision of Works              PMU/TA        PMU/TA        PMU/TA           PMU/TA         PMU/
TA
ICB      Intemational Competitive Bidding PMU  Project Management Unit
LIB      Limited International Bidding       DIV      Division
NCB      National Competitive Bidding        CAS      Central Administrative Services (Procurement Unit)
IS      International Shopping      Donor   Donor Agency (IDA/IBRD - ADB)
NS       National Shopping                   TA       Extemal Consultant individual or Firm
CC      ETTA Contract Committee
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
#rojct schedulei~                                  P ei cti
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      5                             4
First Bank mission (identification)             03/01/2001                    03/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     05/01/2001                    05/01/2001
Negotiations                                    06/13/2001                    06/28/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/17/2001                    07/31/2001
Prepared by:
Division of Health Services within the East Tirnor Transition Authority for the United Nations Transitional
Administration in East Timor.
Preparation assistance:
Significant project preparation assistance has come from the participation of all the donors participating in
the Joint Donor Review, Preparation and Appraisal Missions. This has included significant assistance
from AusAID, European Commission, Portugal, Brazil, WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA The participation
and cooperation of the DHS which has shown leadership in defining program objectives and activities
should not go unacknowledged.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Nafef                                    Speciality
Ian P. Morris                     Senior Human Resources Specialist, World Bank
Janet Nassim                      Operations Officer, World Bank
Jerker Liljestrand                Principle Health Specialist, World Bank
Christopher Smith                 Consultant Procurement Specialist, World Bank
Abdul Haji,                       Financial Management Specialist, World Bank,
Nigel Wakeharn                    Consultant Architect, World Bank
Wijaya Wickrema                   Senior Financial Management Specialist, World Bank
Karin Nordlander                  Senior Counsel, World Bank
Hilary Kiell                      Senior Procurement Specialist, World Bank
Hung Kim Phung                    Senior Disbursement Officer, World Bank
Ronald Isaacson                   Deputy Resident Representative East Timor, and Procurement Specialist,
World Bank
Chandra Chakravarthi              Operations Assistant, World Bank
- 74 -



Donor staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Megan Chisholm                     East Timor Country Officer, AusAID
Robert Condon                      Consultant Public Health Specialist, AusAID
Susan Dawson                       Consultant, Health Systems Specialist, AusAID
Christopher Knauth                  European Commission
Femanda Santos,                    Physician, Portugual Mission, East Timor
Ewerton Olivera,                   Representative, Brazil Mission, East Timor
Ito Tamako                         Project Formulation Officer, JICA Office, East Timor
Samhari Baswedan                   Project Officer, Health, UNICEF, East Timor
Joyce Smith                        WHO, Human Resources Specialist
Rui Fonseca                        Representative, Portugual Mission, East Timor
DHS Staff who participated in Project
Design:
Dr. Rui Maria de Araujo            Head, Division of Health Services (DHS)
Dr. Jim Tulloch                    Senior Advisor, DHS and Director PMU
Dr. Rui Paulo de Jesus             Deputy Head, DHS & Head, Service Delivery Sub-Division
Dr. Vima Martins                   Head, Policy & Planning Sub-Division
Lidia Gomes                        Head, Basic Package Section
Francisco A.S. Dos Santos          Head, Finance/Logistics/Adrninistration Sub-Division
Nidia Oliviera                     Health Promotion Officer
Domingos Gomes da Cruz             Head, Finance Section
Luis Tomas dos Reis Amaral         Head, Logistics Section
Francisco Salgueros                NCHET
Isabel Hemming                     Senior Health Officer
Olga Alyoshina                     Project Implementation Officer
Alvaro Alonso                      Health Policy and Management Officer
Adam Slote                         Health Officer
Ligia Lobo                         Reproductive Health Officer
Kashi Maskey                       Reproductive Health Officer
Ian Maxwell                        Finance Officer
Sunethra Siriwardhena,             Procurement Officer
Kevin Park                         Health Officer
Joe Thomas                         STD/HIV/AIDS Advisor (AusAID financed)
- 75 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan comprises the following documents prepared by the Division of Health
Services and are in addition to those documents prepared by the Interim Health Authority for the first phase
(Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project (HSRDP) - Report No:20341 -TP - Annex 8) of the
planned three phase health sector rehabilitation and development program.
* Overview and Progress to date of Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Program, 30 April
2001.
*   Budget and Financial Information
-     Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project Budget and Expenditures to April
for 2000/01.
-     Consolidated Fund For East Timor Health Sector Budgets and Expenditures to April for
2000/01
-     2001/02 Health Sector Program Budget Submission (all expenditures and sources of
fiunds)
-     Budget Notes for 2001/02, Prepared by Division of Health Services for Cabinet
Committee deliberations
* Proposed Staffing Plan for Division of Health Services 2001/02
? Proposed Organogram of Central Division of Health Services
* Update on Health Sector Civil Servant Recruitment
* Current and proposed International Staff for the Division of Health Services
-   DHS Sectional Plans of Action (Prepared October 2000 and revised January 2000). Covers 12 of the
13 Sections of DHS.
o District Health Plan (DHP) Documentation
-     Guidelines for Preparation of District health Plans
-     Guidelines for the Quarterly District Health Monitoring Report
-     Minimum Standards for Health Services in East Timor
-     Quarterly Monitoring report for October-December 2000
-     Quarterly monitoring Report for January-March 2001
-     Stakeholder and Situational Analysis of the Health System at District Level in East Timor:
A new Model of Cooperation
* Distribution and current Status of Health Facilities
* Detailed Description of Physical Status of all District Health Facilities in East Timor (Matchplay
Report)
* Update on Specific Health Program Elements
-     Health Policy Development process
-     Child health
-     Matemal and Reproductive Health
-     Health Promotion
-     Immunization
-     Vector-Borne Disease Control
-     Sexually Transmitted Diseases and HIV/AIDS
-     Mental Health
-     Oral/Dental Health
- 76 -



-      Specialized Medical Services
-     National TB Program
*   Key Human Resource Planning and Training Issues and Programs
*   Commissioned Policy Papers:
-      Health Financing Options Paper (Prepared by Paolo Belli for DHS)
-      East Timor's Health System Options - Public/Private (Prepared by James Herm for DHS)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Working PaperslAssessments prepared by Preparation/Appraisal Mission:
* Overview of Reproductive Health Issues in East Timor and annexes covering: (a) Maternal Health; (b)
Links between Community and the Health System; (c) On Skilled Birth Attendance and Implications
for Health Facilities; and (d) STD/HIV/AIDS (Prepared by Jerker Liljestrand, Principle Health
Specialist, World Bank).
*   Capacity Building for the East Timorese Health Service (Prepared by Susan Dawson, Consultant
Public Health Specialist AusAID)
*   Prospects for Communicable Disease Control in East Timor (Prepared by Robert Condon, Consultant
Public Health Physician, AusAID and Christopher Knauth, Program Manager, European Commission)
*   Health Management Information Systems (Prepared by Robert Condon, Consultant Public Health
Physician, AusAID)
*   Procurement Plan (Prepared by Christopher Smith, Consultant World Bank in consultation with PMU)
*   Financial Management Plan (Prepared by Christopher Smith and Ian Morris World Bank in
consultation with PMU and reviewed by Abdul Haji Senior Financial Management Specialist, World
Bank.
o   Human Resources Development: Ms Joyce H. Smith, WHO Consultant
*   Note: Key Assessments and Reports prepared for HSRDP I including (a) Implementation Specialist
Report (Nigel Wakeham, Consultant Architect), (b) Pharmaceutical Logistics Systems Report
(Malcom Clark, Pharmaceutical Logistics Expert); (c) Economic Analysis Paper (James Knowles,
Economist) and (d) Costs of District Health Component (Lindsay Sales, Public Health Specialist)
Services also underpin the Appraisal Mission's Assessment of the proposed project.
C. Other
*   Aide Memoire of Joint Donor Mission Review of the Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development
Project and Preparation/Appraisal Mission for the Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and
Development Project, May, 2001.
*   Terms of Reference for the procurement and financial management specialists for the Division of
Health Services Project Management Unit.
*   Note on the disposal of medical waste in health centers and hospitals
*Including electronic files
- 77 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
May-2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              and actual
disbursements
Project ID   FY       Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA        SF               Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P072461       2001    East Timor Capacity Building                  0 00      0 00       0 50                 0 00      0 40      0 00       0 00
P072356       2001    TP-SECOND COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT               0 00      0 00       850                  0 00      7 42      1 77       0 00
P070533       2000    PROJECT                                       0 00      0 00       6 80                0 00       247       3 53       0 00
P070294       2000    AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT            0 00       0 00     12 70                 0 00      9 75      5 97       0 00
P070283       2000    TP-Health Sector Rehab & Dev Project          0 00       0 00      4 85                 0 00      1 04      4 25       0 00
P070268       2000    TP- Small Enterprises Project Phase I         0 00       0 00     13 90                 0 00      4 81      0 00       0 00
P069762       2000    TP-Emergency School Readiness Project         0 00       0 00     21 00                 0 00      0 58      3 75       0 00
TP-COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
Total:       0 00       0 00      68 25                0 00      26 46      19 27      0 00
EAST TIMOR
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                  Disbursed
IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval               Company                              Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic        Loan    Equity       Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:               0 00       0 00       0 00       0 00        0 00      0 00       0 00       0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval               Company                                  Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                0 00         0 00         0 00         0 00
- 78 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
EAST TIMOR: Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
Data not available
- 79 -






__________________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                          IRRO 3062,RR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(BR 3026
Hd-h-p.''                            PCIFn,  125                                                               522t3V                                       126'00'                                      126 30t                                      127000
SUlAWEI                          '-E4N                                   -                                                     t            ORjqJ..I                                             5     it  o    We t',-
B =,.   Cm m            POAPPUA                                                                                    OAto_ _ o
' 9na i)w@     A n      Albr Is5lnd                                    RBM.r       c ,,O
INDONESIA                               1 _,                         INDONE
hEASMT T'TIMOR                                                                                         A   sP
A  s"~ ~~~~O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E3
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tl-  v    Se0                                                                 d~ 
,'~~~'9'- ,.t .; -843u ,v ........ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mancltuto- ....- ;  iUtl_    730
/         '-Alo',Eo        ,v               E        - _AINArRO   .            do            8
Oecussi    /~PtVjf                                                                                           J     f     . \           - .1 r
rc j                                          ,,N'oH111 tk ' OAlAt-
S     % t 4          J \                      %t8 -- - rX  <T i m o r  Se a
O~tT^/'. j1QNDONESIA)                                   >.- t                                                                                                                                                                                         / -93
- v ! I gi- 2.02                   9,           t 2        50 125302                                                                                           12B4 00                                      126'3SE- 
0    5   10   15   20   25 I    2AKILOMETERS
O       5        10      15      220MILES                                                                 M AMINRF'ORRADS                                 ELEVAftOt9 S.<< 
120' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                      IPRS20  MTR   N   BV
0      SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES               E          1500-2200 tAETERS  \\r   , v,lX i
7t omopooopodoo:edby,1oM,pr0Doog  n ,,,,ITI,oo,IoM,,ksow                                               Si      NATIONAL CAPITAL                               1    5002-S2Ts0MERERS 2\                                                            i      .:     .-.m
lI"oo,pd,mnnoal32p;o o..Io p0,f     W,ld Bot 0,,.,o       -          -         -          -         -         ISTRICT BOUNDARIES 5001000hhE l E RS
occoploot,ctoo ,d,roa-                                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                  0-500 MVETERS
- ~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                  JI  0



