Report No. PID10500
Project Name                     East Timor-Second Health Sector Rehabilitation (@)
and Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Primary Health; Including Reproductive Health; Chi
Project ID                       TPPE72648
Borrower(s)                      E. TIMOR
Implementing Agency
Address UN TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR
(UNTAET)
Implementing Agency: Division of Health Services
Address: c/o UN Transitional Administration in
East Timor (UNTAET)
Contact Person: Dr. Jim Tulloch
Tel: (61) 407 802 749
Fax: (61) 889463901/2
Email: ethpmu@ntisp.com or tullochj@un.org
Environment Category             C
Date PID prepared                June 28, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 18, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The main challenges in the health sector were identified in preparation of
the first project, conceived of as the first phase in a three year program
of support. Chief among them are the following:Rebuilding a shattered
health system: service delivery. In the violence that followed the
referendum, 75t of health infrastructure was destroyed or badly damaged.
Most of the senior health managers and doctors left the country. NGOs
came in during the emergency period to re-establish access to health care
but access to preventive services such as immunization was almost
non-existent. There was thus an urgent need for reconstruction and
rehabilitation of many health facilities - though not all, given the
overcapacity in the previous system - for establishing a health authority,
for recruitment, deployment and training of staff, and for restoration of
basic services. A transitional strategy was developed under which NGOs
became lead service providers in the district, and carried out services
according to district health plans agreed with the transitional
government. Considerable progress was made in increasing access, but
utilization is low, the construction program is only just about to get
underway, and civil service recruitment is only just complete. Much
therefore, remains to be done. Rebuilding a shattered health system:
policy and systems development.    Development of the system over the long
term will require a clear health policy. Though East Timor is in a unique
position to formulate and apply health policies and legislation suited to
its particular needs, the exigencies of establishing a new constitution
and a new government have prevented legislative action to date. Some
progress has been made in the health sector, particularly with regard to
establishing a decision- making process, but most of the factors that



drove planning for policy and systems development in the first project
still apply in particular the need to consider and try out different
options, and to address policy development within an overall policy
framework that shows clearly how the various pieces fit together. The
health system was inefficient before the referendum: despite extensive
infrastructure and over staffing, health status was poor, and utilization
low. UN figures estimated life expectancy at below 50 in 1995. Public
health services such as water and sanitation were also limited.
Considerable access to health services is being provided under the first
project, but low utilization remains a significant concern. Improving the
quality of care and health system capacity to provide that care are major
needs, as is strengthening demand through health promotion and community
involvement.Heavy Reliance on NGOs. With the collapse of the government
health care system, NGOs (mostly international) became the main service
providers together with East Timorese staff on temporary stipends financed
by the Consolidated Fund for East Timor (CFET), under agreement with the
DHS. (The Church and religious charities operate clinics and some small
hospitals, as they have done for many years, and the coffee cooperatives
also have their own health facilities.) Under the agreements with the
DHS, and the district health plans, access to first level curative care
and to preventive services was increased. During this time, NGOs received
resources from their own organizations, the European Commission's
Humanitarian Office (ECHO) and the first health project. This funding
enabled the NGOs to employ expatriate staff, including doctors. East
Timor itself has very few doctors about 20. However, the costs of
supporting the NGO presence is high, and unsustainable at current levels.
In addition, while the NGOs have been invaluable during the first year of
the program, there is a natural pressure for Timorization of district
health management. Dependence on Donor Assistance. East Timor is heavily
dependent on donor support, and will be for the next several years.
Although the main channels for donor support have been the UNTAET trust
fund, CFET and TFET, several donors (particularly AusAID), the United
Nations Technical Agencies (WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA) and NGOs have also
provided financial and technical support. The health sector has adopted a
sector wide approach to both donor coordination and program development.
But with the prospective reduction in the importance of TFET (or other
joint donor financing arrangements for the development program) and the
increasing size of bilateral and projectized support, donor coordination
in support of the agreed program will become increasingly important to
minimize demands on DHS, to ensure assistance to the sector is guided by
an overall strategy and to minimize the risk that projects and technical
assistance programs not within the strategic framework will jeopardize
future development (e.g. un-programmed investments in hospital care that
incur high running costs). The implications for recurrent costs of all
planned investments is an issue for all donors not just those involved
in supporting the Sector Wide Approach. Sustainable Resourcing of the
Health Sector. East Timor continues to face a major challenge to rebuild
and develop a health system which is financially sustainable in the medium
to longer term. One implication of the adoption of a sector wide approach
to the redevelopment of the health sector is that it enables health
authorities to monitor the incremental recurrent costs arising from the
financing of new capital programs and donor financed projects. It is very
important that this is monitored by all parties to ensure activities
started can be financed in the longer term. The current estimate of the
total incremental recurrent costs arising from approved projects is $2.2
-2 -



million over the next 3 years. Estimates of the recurrent budget
available to health in FY02 are about $7.3 million. This would need to
rise to about $9.5 million in FY04 or about 30 percent. This is
significant but remains feasible with total recurrent costs for health
rising from 11 percent of the total recurent budget in FY02 to 13 percent
of the expected total recurrent budget in FY04.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the health program is to rehabilitate and develop
a cost-effective and financially sustainable health system in East Timor
to be responsive to the immediate basic health needs of the population
and, within a well integrated and sustainable policy framework, to prepare
the health system to meet future needs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA brings considerable experience in post-conflict situations, and
considerable experience of working in health in poor countries of East
Asia to the second health project.It has also brought considerable
experience in the sector wide approach in health, and mechanisms for joint
financing of an agreed program. This reduces the risk that donors will
follow their own priorities, leading to a "projectized" approach which is
difficult for government to coordinate. This experience has helped bring
consistency to the approach, despite some pressures for separate bilateral
projects, and may well assure some forms of joint financing in the future.
The proposed joint financing of the project by the EC is a reflection of
this.The policy dialogue leading to adoption and now strong endorsement of
the sector wide approach by DHS, and the support to budget analysis that
helps understanding of the macro economic situation in which the health
sector is operating, are further contributions from the Bank.
4. Description
Component 1: Support On-going Service Delivery
This component will support a) continued service delivery through the
provision of technical assistance to the new district health management
teams in the development and implementation of the district health plans,
and by drawing on the support of the specialized technical agencies, and
b) provision of pharmaceuticals to health facilities, including
hospitals. The component ensures basic services, selected high priority
activities, pharmaceuticals and logistics systems and essential hospital
care.
Component 2. Improve the Range and Quality of Services, and Develop and
Implement Supporting Systems
The second component will support improvements in the quality of services
with particular emphasis on standardizing and enhancing the quality of
delivery of the basic package of services including reproductive health,
developing communicable disease surveillance and control (i.e. for
diseases with epidemic potential or other public health importance),
developing health promotion activities, and addressing environmental
health issues.
A major activity will be strengthening referral systems and a rational
-3 -



hospital system. The project will therefore assist the
rehabilitation/reconstruction, refurbishing and equipping of hospitals, an
urban community health center, the Central Medical Laboratory, and
communications and transport. A communications network will be
established, and assistance provided to driver training and vehicle
maintenance.
Technical assistance will be provided to the building up of supporting
systems such as laboratory services, and pharmaceuticals and medical
supply systems.
Component 3: Develop and Implement Health Sector Policy and Management
Systems.
Health policy development will include conducting a Demographic and Health
Survey to provide information on which to base policy; and assistance to
capacity development in the formulation and promulgation of policy, and
its implementation.
An important sub-component will be support to the development and
implementation of a Human Resource management strategy which includes
training and all other aspects of human resource management.
Systems management will be strengthened by the development of a health and
management information system, by the re-establishment of administrative
infrastructure and processes at central and district level, and by
management training and capacity building. The project also provides for
audits.
The component will also support the Health Program Management Unit's (PMU)
running costs, including training for East Timorese staff in financial
management and procurement.
Contingency
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 0.00
EUROPEAN COMMISSION (EC) 8.83
SPECIAL FINANCING 11.00
Total Project Cost 19.83
6. Implementation
Implementation Period. The project is expected to be completed by
September 30, 2003 -- an implementation period of 27 months.Project
Management. Overall coordination of the health program is with the DHS in
the ETTA, the institution established by UNTAET to manage and implement
government programs. The health program is financed through a sector wide
approach, which comprises funding drawn from CFET, TFET, the UNTAET trust
fund, multilateral and bi-lateral sources. The project is funded by TFET
and, under an agreement to be finalized with the EC, construction and
provision of medical equipment for reconstructed and new hospitals is
expected to be jointly funded by the EC and TFET. The agreement between
TFET and the EC is expected to be finalized by March 15, 2002. The Health
Program Management Unit, (PMU) is directly responsible for implementation
of the TFET funded project, and the EC/TFET jointly funded construction
-4 -



and provision of medical equipment for the rehabilitation and new hospital
component. The PMU Program Manager reports to the Cabinet Minister for
Social Affairs through the Head of DHS who is also the Director of the
PMU. The Program Manager, who is responsible for the day to day management
of the PMU is supported by TFET funded staff in the positions of a Finance
Officer, counterpart to the Head Sub-Division of Finance, Administration,
Logistics and Procurement, a Procurement Officer, counterpart to the Head
of the Logistics and Procurement Section, and a Senior Procurement
Advisor, on periodic assignment, overseeing procurement planning and
management within the PMU. The appointment of a Health Policy and
Management Specialist is a condition of Grant effectiveness and the
continuation of the each of these positions are implementation conditions
for the proposed project.In addition to the above PMU staff the PMU has
international consultants in the positions of; Public Health Officer,
Coordinator for Health Policy, a Civil Affairs and Construction Officer,
an Implementation Officer, an NGO Liaison Officer, a Vector Control
Officer, an STD/HIV/AIDS Advisor, a Reproductive Health Officer, and
international counterparts to the Heads of the Central Laboratory and
Central Pharmacy reporting to him. These positions are not funded by the
project and are financed by UNTAET/ETTA, and/or drawn form the UN
Volunteer Corps.Disbursement Arrangements. The proposed project is
expected to disburse over a period of 30 months from the date of
effectiveness. Disbursement will be either by direct payment (for
individual payments of US$ 200,000 equivalent or more), or through the
Special Account to be established with a commercial bank. All
disbursements against contracts for Goods costing US$ 200,000 equivalent
or more, Works costing US$ 300,000 equivalent or more, and Consulting
Service contracts with firms for US$ 100,000 equivalent or more or with
individuals for US$ 50,000 equivalent or more, will be fully documented
under standard prior review procedures, as will all single source
contracts regardless of value. All other payments, including those for
operating costs, training / fellowships and workshops below the above
thresholds will be made against certified Statement of Expenses, SOEs.
Documentation supporting SOE disbursements will be retained by the
Division of Health Services for a minimum of one year after receipt by the
Association of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. To facilitate the payment of minor costs (below US$
3,000) the PMU will maintain an imprest account of up to US$ 10,000 under
the procedures established and agreed with the Association for HSRDP. The
Association will conduct a review of SOEs half-yearly. Financial
Management. A Finance Officer with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association, is in place funded under HSRDP and the
position will be continued under the proposed project. The PMU Financial
Unit will have primary responsibility for the financial management of the
program. The PMU Finance Unit will carry out financial planning, sector
wide budgeting, accounting and reporting functions for the program. The
Financial Officer will report to the PMU Program Manager. The Financial
Officer will support East Timorese colleagues appointed to the positions
of Head, Sub-Division of Finance, Administration, Logistics and
Procurement and Head of the Finance Section. The UNTAET Central Fiscal
Authority (CFA) will provide overall guidance and supervision of the PMU
Financial Unit to ensure that functions are carried out in accordance with
the agreed guidelines. The primary responsibility for maintaining
accounting records for the project will be with the PMU Finance Officer.
The PMU Finance Unit with the guidance of the CFA have established, under
- 5 -



HSRDP, accounting and internal control procedures for authorizing
payments, recording of all project related expenditures, periodic
financial reporting and preparation of annual financial statements for
external audit, the arrangements will be continued for the proposed
project The accounting system maintains separate project accounts for TEFT
funded activities in accordance with the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. These
procedures will be expanded to cover the proposed EC/TFET funded
activities in March 2002. The PMU Finance Officer will ensure that
quarterly and annual financial reports comparing budgeted and actual
expenditures are prepared for the proposed project. The formats of the
reports are the same as those agreed for HSRDP, and will be revised and
expanded to detail accounting and reporting procedures agreed between the
EC and TFET for the construction and provision of medical equipment for
new hospitals.    The financial reports shall be prepared and submitted to
the Association no later than 30 days following the end of the
quarter.Audit. The CFA will be responsible to carry out internal auditing
of the project activities. The PMU will prepare annual financial
statements for the Project and have them audited by an independent
external auditor acceptable to the Association. The auditor will be
required to provide an opinion on the financial statements, the operations
of the Special Account and the withdrawals from the grant based on
statements of expenditures (SOEs). The Autonomous Medical Supply Entity
established under HSRDP I as an independent entity, and operated under
commercial principles by a commercial contractor will also be audited
annually by the independent auditor. The audit will also cover expenditure
under the EC/TFET agreement for the reconstructed and new hospital
construction and the provision of medical equipment components of the
project. The independent auditor will be appointed on terms of reference
acceptable to the Association.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability issues are both financial and programmatic.     Under the
first project, the NGOs who stepped in during the emergency period to
provide services were asked to stay to ensure services during the
transition period until the East Timorese assumed full responsibility.
Essential though they were, the costs of supporting the NGO presence were
relatively high, and dependence on the NGOs can now be reduced as the new
DHS managers take up position. Important financial implications are those
of the hospital rehabilitation and reconstruction for the recurrent
budget. About 4 hospitals will be rehabilitated under the project, and
one more may be constructed in the future as compared with 8 before the
emergency. Since hospitals are currently functioning, with most of the
staff employees of the DHS, the additional costs will be few except in
the case of the main referral hospital in Dili, until recently operated by
the International Red Cross, and now the responsibility of DHS. Staff for
this hospital need to be recruited by the DHS. Most of the doctors
working in the hospitals work for the international NGOs. Though East
Timor will be dependent on foreign doctors for some time, they will now be
recruited from other countries in the region. The sector wide approach
has been adopted to strengthen sustainability with donors agreeing to
fund only activities agreed as priorities under the program. All
activities are part of a line item budget produced by the DHS.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from other post-conflict countries include:Need to take advantage
- 6 -



of technical agency inputs to the formulation and development of health
sector needs and policy;Need to develop a clear conceptual framework to
guide health system development as countries emerge from conflict;Need to
establish processes to involve a wide range of stakeholders in a
participatory and transparent process of identifying needs and priorities
and considering alternative models and approaches to health system
development;Need to take into account limited implementation experience of
many of the agencies in a post-conflict situation to finance, provide and
oversee health service provision;Need to evaluate interventions to ensure
more good than harm results, and that resources are used as equitably and
efficiently as possible.Lessons from health sector development programs in
other countries ( Largely drawn from OED 1999. Investing in Health:
Development Effectiveness in the Health, Nutrition and Population
Sector.)the most complex projects are found in countries with the least
implementation capacity;project documentation provides numerous examples
of suggested indicators, without assessment of country capacity to provide
them;progress towards development objectives is rarely a focus of
supervision;institutional assessment is weak; andthe need to look at the
sector as an integrated whole. Bank projects in the 1980s focused on
primary health care to the exclusion of the hospital sector, until it was
realized that this was leading to ignoring that part of the health sector
responsible for most of the uncontrolled growth in health budgets.
Lessons from the ongoing East Timor Health Sector Rehabilitation and
Development Programthe difficulties of implementation in a post-conflict
situation where the structures and processes of government are still being
established. The first project was negotiated with UNTAET. A few months
later ETTA was established as the management and implementation arm of
UNTAET and as the forerunner of the independent government structure, with
a cabinet covering five areas. Health is part of the Department of Social
Affairs within ETTA. Considerable uncertainty arose about the extent of
devolution of legal responsibilities and authority from UNTAET to ETTA
with respect to project matters - in all sectors. One lesson is that
procedures established at negotiation should be retained until new
procedures are agreed by all. Another derives from the fact that for
health the health project management unit was coterminous with the DHS.
This gave some advantages: it minimized the levels of bureaucracy and
allowed work on the program as a whole to continue: the Project Director,
the Finance Officer and the Procurement Specialist were the same for the
DHS and for the project, no matter whether DHS was reporting to UNTAET or
to ETTA. the need for those concerned with longer term reconstruction and
development issues to also provide input into building the structures of
government. What is done for example on civil service issues has
tremendous long-term impact on the sectors: in health the decision to
make all health workers civil servants right down to drivers and cleaners
immediately, and not through contracting in the short term, risks limiting
service delivery options and manpower planning in the longer term. Despite
the provisions for review of performance, international experience
indicates that once in position, civil service changes are hard to make,
and so the choices now made will influence gender balance, skills mix, and
qualifications/certification for many years.more consideration of ways to
stimulate community involvement - not just through representation on
committees, where all sectors are trying to do the same thing - but
exploring innovative ways that provide incentives to both the community
and service providers for engagement.a positive lesson is drawn from
policy development. Here technical assistance in defining major decisions
-7 -



for setting the policy framework and in establishing a logical
step-by-step process for that decision-making has fully engaged the
relevant East Timorese staff within DHS and with other health
stakeholders. The two international staff directly involved provide
technical advice only: the East Timorese members of the central DHS in
consultation with DHS staff from the districts, and with representatives
of other stakeholders, take the decisions. The discussions are in Tetun,
and when the time for taking the decision comes, the international staff
leave the room. This process is producing strong ownership.Some of the
implications for first project design that were successful, or are still
desirable in the second project are:Selection of a few key indicators, and
the focus on these in the twice a year joint donor supervision missions.
(The quarterly monitoring reports from district providers require
reporting on these indicators);Greater integration of key technical
agencies into sector development, and support to systems planning,
building the technical support e.g. on training, or disease surveillance
into DHS systems more broadly;Continued support of the process of health
policy development. The second project makes provision for study tours
and training to provide increased international perspective on some of
these key issues.Building implementation capacity in a few essential
systems areas: e.g. strengthening maternity care which involves the
continuum of care from the community to referral to tertiary level
services, and is thus a litmus test for the whole system:Adequate support
to DHS/PMU. The second project will support a health policy specialist
and regular technical assistance from a senior procurement specialist.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The main environmental issues arise from project
support of hospital rehabilitation and construction, the safe management
of hospital waste, and how to deal with the asbestos removal.     The main
issue is management of healthcare waste disposal. The hospitals to be
rehabilitated and rebuilt under the project will include the larger
version of the incinerators approved for healthcare waste disposal in
health centers and hospitals in the first project. The incinerators will
have similar specifications to those used successfully in similar
situations in the Solomon Islands in recent years. The incinerators are
environmentally appropriate for East Timor, using simple technology and
readily available fuel sources - wood, coconut shells etc. The double
chamber action ensures heating to a high temperature and control of toxic
gases. The terms of reference for the hospital design contract (to be
undertaken by a firm with specialist skills in hospital design) will
require detailed specifications for incinerators to be developed taking
into account the eventual size of the hospitals to be developed. Adequate
funds are available in the project for both the design work and the
construction and operationalization of the incinerators. Training in
packaging health care waste and use of the incinerator will be part of the
supply contract. The hospitals are, and will be for the next few years,
under the professional management of international health NGOs. The
projects also support the construction of a Central Laboratory and the
Autonomous Medical Supply Entity. Both buildings will contain
incinerators. The Autonomous Medical Supply Entity will be managed on
private sector principles by an agency independent of the DHS. One of its
main responsibilities is the management of inventory to avoid the problem
- 8 -



of out of date pharmaceuticals.White asbestos has been found in several
health centers and schools destroyed after the referendum, and is a
problem in the larger urban areas. AusAID have funded a team to
investigate, and has now, together with DHS, provided technical assistance
to the environmental unit of UNTAET in the development of guidelines for
safe asbestos handling in the extensive construction going on in the
country. All TFET projects involving construction will mandate compliance
with these guidelines. All civil works contracts will provide for the safe
handling and disposal of asbestos in accordance with these guidelines.
Adequate funds are provided in the project under the design and civil
works components of the project to enable the asbestos to be handled and
disposed safely. The construction coordinator within the PMU of the DHS
will have TORs which include responsibilities to ensure construction
contract provisions are being followed i.e. that worker safety, safe
handling and disposal of hazardous materials including asbestos follow the
guidelines. This will include on-site training for asbestos handling and
removal.   These issues are also applicable for the first project however
delays in procurement activities mean there are no substantive lessons to
be learned from the first project yet. Nevertheless, the supervision and
review team for both the first and second project will continue to monitor
these issues carefully. In this context, it appropriate to note that it
was the team's architect which first identified the potential of the
asbestos problem during a review mission of the first project.       All
buildings being renovated under the program are simple in design, make the
maximum use of cross-ventilation and will have large roof overhangs to
reduce to the minimum the amount of solar penetration into rooms. Only
specialized rooms such as operating theatres, vaccine stores, etc will
require air-conditioning. All building will be simply constructed using
rendered, concrete blocks made in East Timor. All sanitary waste from
both clinics and hospitals will be treated in septic tanks with the
overflow going to appropriately sized soakaways sited at least 30 meters
from any wells or water courses to avoid any possible contamination.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ian P. Morris
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



