Page  1
CONFORMED
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR 
GRANT NUMBER TF-029888
Trust Fund for East Timor
Grant Agreement
(Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project)
between
EAST TIMOR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as Trustee of the Trust Fund for East Timor
Dated October 15, 2001
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR
GRANT NUMBER TF-029888
TRUST FUND FOR EAST TIMOR GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 2001, between EAST TIMOR, as administered by the 
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION IN EAST TIMOR (the Recipient) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Trustee) acting as trustee of the Trust 
Fund for East Timor.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. 99-8 of the Executive Directors of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Resolution No. 
IDA99-5 of the Executive Directors of the Association, the Executive Directors 
established the Trust Fund for East Timor (TFET) to assist in the emergency 
reconstruction and recovery program in East Timor and appointed the Association as 
trustee of the TFET;
(B)
the United Nations Security Council, acting under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations, adopted on October 25, 1999, Resolution 1272 (1999) 
establishing a United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) for 
an initial period until January 31, 2001, whereas UNTAET has the objectives and a 
structure as set out in part IV of the Report of the Secretary-General dated October 
4, 1999, and whereas the mandate period for UNTAET was, pursuant to the United Nations 
Security Council Resolution 1338 (2001) of January 31, 2001, extended until January 
31, 2002;
(C)
the Recipient intends to obtain from the European Economic Community (EC) 
a grant in an amount equivalent to US$8,830,000 (the EC Grant) to assist in financing 
Part B.2 (a) of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to 
be entered into between the Recipient and the EC (the EC Grant Agreement); and
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
Page  2
assistance from the resources of the TFET for funding the Project; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The "General Conditions Applicable to the Trust Fund for East Timor 
Grant Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated May 15, 2000 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means persons who, solely on account of and as a 
direct result of the physical implementation of the activities under Part B of the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected; and "Affected Person" means individually all those who qualify as 
Affected Persons;
(b)
 "Health Program Management Unit" means the unit established within the 
Recipient’s Division of Health Services and responsible for the implementation of the 
Project, including the implementation of the financial management and procurement 
action plans, and means the Project implementation entity for purposes of sub-sections 
(g), (h), (i) and (j) of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions;
(c)
"Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework" means the Framework 
adopted by the Recipient for the provision of compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement assistance to Affected Persons, as such Framework may be amended from 
time to time in agreement with the Trustee;
(d)
 "Operational Manual" means the manual to assist the Recipient’s Health 
Program Management Unit in the implementation of the Project, as such manual may be 
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Trustee;
(e)
 "Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Recipient’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount equal to twelve million six hundred thousand Dollars ($12,600,000).
(b)
The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purpose pursuant 
to the Resolution referred to in Whereas (A) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  3
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through its Division of Health Services, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, 
environmental, financial, public health and social practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a plan 
to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Page  4
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Trustee for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than 
October 1, 2002, or such later date as the Trustee shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Trustee, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the EC Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by March 15, 
2002, or such later date as the Trustee may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Trustee that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Recipient under this Agreement; and
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of  any grant made to the 
Recipient for the financing of the Project shall have been 
Page  5
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the EC Grant Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement:
(a)
that a health policy and management specialist has been employed in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
that the Program Management Unit is staffed with a finance officer in 
accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
that the Operational Manual has been adopted in accordance with paragraph 
2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d)
that guidelines for the preparation of district health plans, acceptable 
to the Trustee, have been adopted in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. (a) Except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, 
the Grant Agreement shall enter into effect on the date on which the Trustee 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would 
have entitled the Trustee to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account if the Trust Fund Grant Agreement had been effective, the 
Trustee may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section until such event or events shall have ceased to exist.
Section 6.03. If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into 
effect ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Trustee, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later 
date for the purposes of this Section. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary General, United 
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor
Dili, East Timor
c/o Cabinet Officer for the Department of Social Affairs
P.O. Box 2436
Darwin, NT 0801, Australia
Facsimile:
Page  6
61-889463901
61-889463902
1212-9632180
For the Trustee:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dili, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS TRANSITIONAL ADMINISTRATION
  IN EAST TIMOR
By /s/ Dennis McNamara
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Trustee for the Trust Fund in East Timor
By /s/ Sarah Cliffe  
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works:
(a) Part B.2 (a) of 
the Project
   1,800,000
18% 
(b) Part B.2 (b) of 
the Project
     700,000
100%
(2)
Goods (including local 
transportation):
(a) Part A.2 of 
the Project
   1,600,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
Page  7
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
90% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(b) Part B.2 (a) of 
the Project
     128,000
18%
(c) Other Parts of 
the Project
     765,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
90% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Incremental operating  
     277,000
100%
costs
(4)
Training, fellowships and     795,000
100%
      workshops
(5)
Consultants’
   6,131,000
100%
services and studies
(6)
Unallocated
     404,000
TOTAL
12,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of East Timor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of East Timor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of East 
Timor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of East Timor; provided, 
however, that if the currency of East Timor is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for 
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "Incremental operating costs"  means reasonable expenditures 
incurred by the Recipient for bank charges and Project auditing costs, and Health 
Program Management Unit staff travel, per diems, communications and consumables, but 
excluding staff salaries (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the 
Project);  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and until a Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to the Trustee has been adopted by the 
Recipient in accordance with paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) civil works costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) goods costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract; and (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less 
than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued 
at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or 
the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in rehabilitating and 
developing a cost-effective and financially sustainable health system in East Timor to 
be responsive to the immediate basic health needs of the population and, within a well 
integrated and sustainable health policy framework, to prepare the health system to 
meet future needs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives.
Part A:
Supporting Ongoing Health Service Delivery
1.
Delivery of health services, including selected high priority activities 
(including immunization, tuberculosis treatment, nutrition, and health promotion) and 
basic services (including maternal and child health), in accordance with district 
health plans, medical supply systems, logistics systems, and essential hospital care, 
through the provision of technical assistance to the Division of Health Services.
2.
Provision of pharmaceuticals to health facilities, including hospitals.
Part B:
Improvement of the Range and Quality of Health Services and  Development 
and Implementation of Health Support Systems
1.
Improvement of the quality of basic health services provided at district level, 
including enhancement of health promotion activities, environmental health, 
communicable disease surveillance and reproductive health, through the provision of 
technical assistance to the Division of Health Services and provision of training to 
health services staff.
2.
Hospital rationalization and strengthening of the health referral system 
through:
(a)
the rehabilitation and/or construction of about four selected hospitals, 
including provision of related equipment and furniture, and the provision of training 
to Division of Health Services staff in the use and maintenance of the equipment;
(b)
refurbishing of the Centro Clinic and the central laboratory in Dili;
(c)
improvement of communications and transport between health facilities and 
hospitals through the provision of communications equipment and vehicle spare parts, 
and provision of training to the Division of Health Services staff in the use, 
maintenance and management of the equipment and vehicles.
3.
Provision of equipment and furniture to health clinics, health posts and mobile 
clinics and the provision of training to the Division of Health Services staff in the 
use and maintenance of the equipment.
4.
Establishment of an autonomous medical supply entity and provision of technical 
assistance for the management of such entity.
Part C:
Development and Implementation of a Health Sector Policy and Management 
Systems
1.
Development of a health sector policy through the provision of technical 
assistance for: (a) the identification of health policy issues; (b) the carrying out 
of health policy studies; (c) the carrying out of a demographic household survey; (d) 
the carrying out of consultations with stakeholders; (e) the dissemination of findings 
of studies and surveys; and (f) the drafting of a health policy and associated 
regulations.
2.
Development of health management systems through the provision of technical 
assistance for the preparation and the implementation of: (a) health sector planning; 
(b) management and health information systems; (c) monitoring and evaluation systems; 
and (d) administrative procedures.
3.
Capacity building for health policy and health systems development through:
(a)
the provision of technical assistance to the Division of Health Services 
for the training of trainers and the development and implementation of a training 
Page  9
program for health system trainers, managers of the Division of Health Services, 
members of health professional associations and health sector non-governmental 
organizations, and persons with responsibilities for health sector issues; 
(b)
the provision of fellowships and study tours to managers of the Division 
of Health Services, selected members of health professional associations and health 
sector non-governmental organizations, and selected persons with responsibilities for 
health sector issues; and
(c)
the provision of fellowships to medical students and health professionals 
for the development of clinical skills.
4.
Planning and design of a cost-effective and financially sustainable health 
system, including organizational structure and administrative procedures.
5.
Planning and establishment of a strategy and an implementation plan for human 
resource development in the health sector.
6.
Strengthening the Health Program Management Unit through the provision of 
technical assistance, equipment, furniture and supplies.
*          *          *          *          *
 The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Trustee in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
and the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
Page  10
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Medical equipment and spare parts for vehicles which are of a proprietary nature 
and costing $70,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Trustee's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Trustee, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract procured under international shopping 
procedures and the first contract procured under small works procedures, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Trustee a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Trustee a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  11
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Trustee in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A.1, B.1, C.3 and C.4 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services from specialized United Nations agencies for Part B.1 and Part C.1 (f) 
of the Project and services for the management of the autonomous medical supply entity 
under Part B.4 of the Project, may, with the Trustee's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts A.1, B.1, C.1, C.2, C.4, C.5 and C.6 of the Project, that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved 
by the Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Trustee for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 3
Page  12
National Competitive Bidding Procedures
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under Part C.3 of 
Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement shall be those set forth in the Regulation on Public 
Procurement for Civil Administration in East Timor (UNTAET Regulation No. 2000/10 of 
March 6, 2000) (the Regulation) with the following clarifications required for 
compliance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 of the "Guidelines for Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (the Guidelines) published by the Trustee in January 
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999:
1.
The procuring entity shall procure goods in accordance with Section 5.1 of the 
Regulation. The exceptions provided in Section 5 shall not be valid for National 
Competitive Bidding procedures. 
2.
Section 9.1 shall be modified to provide for advertisement in the national 
press. Bidders shall have not less than 30 days from the date of availability of 
bidding documents or advertisement in the press, whichever is later, to prepare their 
bids.
3.
Section 14.3 (g) shall be modified to read "the criteria to be used in 
evaluating proposals and their relative weight, shall be expressed in monetary terms."
4.
Under Section 15.6 the procuring entity may request extension of the bid 
validity period, but suppliers shall not be required to extend such date, after bid 
submission.
5.
Under Section 16 the bid security shall be set in such a way as to not unduly 
deter bidders from participating in the bidding process. 
6.
Section 18.4 shall not apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall maintain until completion of the Project, a Health Program 
Management Unit responsible for the overall management of the Project, headed by a 
Program Director who shall be the head of the Recipient’s Division of Health Services, 
said Unit to be provided at all times with adequate resources and staffed by qualified 
and experienced personnel in sufficient numbers, including:
(a)
a program manager;
(b)
a health policy and management specialist;
(c)
a finance officer;
(d)
a procurement specialist; and
(e)
periodically, a senior procurement advisor.
2.
The Recipient shall adopt and, thereafter apply in the implementation of the 
Project, the Operational Manual, acceptable to the Trustee, which shall include the 
description of: (a) the procurement procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and standard procurement documentation; and (b) reporting requirements, 
financial management procedures and audit procedures as set forth in Article 4 of this 
Agreement.
3.
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall adopt and apply 
guidelines, acceptable to the Trustee, for the preparation of district health plans.
4.
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that:
(a)
only pharmaceuticals that are included in both the National Essential 
Drugs List and the World Health Organization’s Essential Drugs List are procured under 
the Project; and
(b)
the procurement of the pharmaceuticals under the Project is the 
responsibility of the autonomous medical supply entity.  
Page  13
5.
In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
adopt a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to 
the Trustee; 
(b)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
persons and to avoid the displacement of said persons;
(c)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is 
unavoidable, ensure that the Recipient shall, before carrying out the works which 
would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to Affected Persons, 
compensation and rehabilitation measures in accordance with the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Policy Framework; and
(d)
in the event that there are two hundred or more Affected Persons:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework and furnish such 
plan to the Trustee for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the works, ensure that all Affected 
Persons shall have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan.
6.
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 2002, draft revised regulations for 
pharmaceuticals, under terms of reference acceptable to the Trustee, and furnish such 
drafts to the Trustee for comments; and
(b)
thereafter, taking into account the comments of the Trustee, finalize and 
issue said regulations.
7.
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Recipient shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 2001, furnish the Recipient’s draft health 
sector policy paper to the Trustee for comments; and
(b)
thereafter, taking into account the comments of the Trustee, finalize the 
health sector policy and (i) prepare a timetable, acceptable to the Trustee, for its 
implementation, and (ii) ensure that the policy is reflected in future annual health 
sector plans.
8.
In carrying out Part C.3 (b) of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure that 
priority for fellowships and study tours is given to managers of the Division of Heath 
Services.
9.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, on or about October 1, 2002, and October 1, 2003, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Trustee, by November 1, 2002, and November 1, 2003, or 
such later date as the Trustee shall request, the respective report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Trustee’s 
views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  14
Project Performance Indicators
Indicators
June 30, 2002 June 30, 2002
Percentage of children under one year of age immunized in
Each district:
(a)  DPT3
>30%
>50%
(b)  Measles
>30%
>50%
Percentage of births with skilled attendance:
(a)  nationally
>25%
>35%
(b)  in each district
>10%
>20%
Percentage of population with access to:
(a)  basic health services within two 
  hours from home
>90%
>95%
(b)  in-patient services within two 
  hours from a source of
  basic health services
>70%
>80%
Number of outpatient visits per person per 
  year at each health Facility
>2%
>2.5%
Percentage of health facilities reporting 
  no stock outs of Essential drugs lasting 
  more than two weeks in the previous Quarter
>90%
>90%
Draft health sector policy paper 
  discussed with stakeholders
Completed
Revised pharmaceuticals regulations:
(a)  Draft prepared
Completed
(b)  Regulations issued
Completed
Human resource management and development 
plan adopted
Completed
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
Page  15
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from 
the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the  Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
Page  16
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
