                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000971




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (TF-29888 TF-51363)




                                        ON

                                      GRANTS

              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.6 MILLION (TF-29888) AND

                           EURO 16.2 MILLION (TF-51363)



                                        TO

                                   TIMOR-LESTE

                                       FOR A

     SECOND HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     PROJECT




                                  February 12, 2009




Health, Nutrition and Population
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 Currency Unit = US Dollar
                                      US$1.00 = US$1.00

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 ­ June 30

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AusAID   Australian Agency for International          INTEFET  International Force for Timor-Leste
         Development
BSP      Basic Service Package                        MDTF     Multi-donor Trust Fund
CFET     Consolidated Fund for Timor-Leste            MOH      Ministry of Health
CHC      Community Health Center                      MOPF     Ministry of Planning and Finance
DHS1     Division of Health Services                  MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
DHS2     Demographic and Health Survey                MTEF     Medium-Term Expenditure
                                                               Framework
DPs      Development Partners                         MTR      Mid-Term Review
EC       European Commission                          NGO      Non-governmental Organization
ECHO     European Commission Humanitarian Office      PAD      Project Appraisal Document
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                       PDO      Project Development Objective
GoTL     Government of Timor-Leste                    PMU      Project Management Unit
GVNH     Guido Valadarez National Hospital            RACs     Royal Australian College of
                                                               Physicians
HMIS     Health Management Information System         SAMES    Servico Autonomo de Medicamentos
                                                               e Equipmentos de Saude
HSP      Hospital Strategic Plan                      TB       Tuberculosis
HSRDP I  Health Sector Rehabilitation and             TF       Trust Fund
         Development Project
HSRDP II Second Health Sector and Rehabilitation      TFET     Trust Fund for Timor-Leste
         Development Project
HSSP-SP  Health Sector Strategic Plan Support Project TFR      Total Fertility Rate
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results        TLSLS    Timor-Leste Standards of Living
         Report                                                Survey
IDA      International Development Association        UN       United Nations
IDP      Internally Displaced Persons                 UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
IHA      Interim Health Authority                     WHO      World Health Organization




                                Vice President: James W. Adams

                              Country Director: Nigel Roberts

                    Sector Director (EASHD) Emmanuel Y. Jimenez

                       Acting Sector Manager: John Langenbrunner

                         Project Team Leader: Timothy Johnston

                             ICR Lead Author: Betty Hanan

                                                TIMOR-LESTE
             Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project




                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 A. Basic Information........................................................................................................i
 B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................i
 C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii
 E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................ii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs.....................................................................v
 H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................v
 Annex 1.        Project Costs and Financing..................................................................26
 Annex 2.     Outputs by Component..............................................................................28
 Annex 3.     Economic and Financial Analysis.............................................................34
 Annex 4.     Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.........36
 Annex 5.     Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................38
 Annex 6.      Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..............................................40
 Annex 7.      Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................42
 Annex 8.     Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................54
 Annex 9.     List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................56

 MAP IBRD 33496

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Second Health Sector
Country:                Timor-Leste             Project Name:          Rehabilitation and
                                                                       Development Project
Project ID:             P072648                 L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-29888,TF-51363
ICR Date:               02/24/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              E. TIMOR
Original Total
                        USD 12.6M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 12.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:          12/03/2001        12/03/2001
Appraisal:             04/16/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/29/2001    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                03/31/2004        07/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               15               15
Health                                                          85               85


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction         Secondary         Primary
Health system performance                                     Primary          Primary
Other communicable diseases                                  Secondary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary        Secondary
Population and reproductive health                           Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         Kanthan Shankar                   Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:           John C. Langenbrunner             Maureen Law
Project Team Leader:      Timothy A. Johnston               Ian P. Morris
ICR Team Leader:          Timothy A. Johnston
ICR Primary Author:       Betty Hanan
                          Peter F. B. A. Lafere



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objective of the health program is to rehabilitate and develop a cost-effective
and financially sustainable health system in East Timor to be responsive to the immediate
basic health needs of the population and, within a well integrated and sustainable policy
framework, to prepare the health system to meet future needs.

  The project has three components:




                                               ii

 Component 1:       Support On-going Service Delivery, will assist continued service
delivery through the provision of (a) technical assistance to the new district health
management teams in the development and implementation of the district health plans,
and by drawing on the support            of the specialized technical agencies, and (b)
pharmaceuticals to health facilities, including hospitals. The component ensures basic
services, selected high priority activities, pharmaceuticals and essential hospital care.

 Component 2:       Improve the Range and Quality of Services, and              Develop and
Implement Supporting Systems, will support improvements in the quality of services with
a) particular emphasis on standardizing and enhancing the quality of delivery of the basic
package of services; b) strengthening referral systems and a rational hospital plan.
through assistance to the rehabilitation/reconstruction, refurbishing and equipping of
hospitals, an urban commuity health center, the Central Medical Laboratory and
communications and transport and c) technical assistance to the building up of supporting
systems such as laboratory services, and pharmaceuticals and medical supply systems.

 Component 3:        Develop and Implement Health Sector Policy and Management
Systems, will support policy development, including conducting a Demographic and
Health Survey, and capacity building for policy formulation, promulgation and
implementation .      An important subcomponent will relate to development and
implementation of a Human Resource Management Strategy, including training. Systems
management will be strengthened by the development of a health and management
information system, by the re-establishment of administrative infrastructure and
processes at central and district level, and by management training and capacity building.
The component also provides for audits.            It will also support the Health Program
Management Unit's running costs, including training for East Timorese staff in financial
management and procurement.

 Donor assistance to the health sector will be coordinated, as in the first project, within
an overall framework, or sector wide program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval         Target       Completion or
                                             documents)         Values        Target Years
                Percentage of children under one year of age immunized in each district (a)
Indicator 1 :   DPT3 - (b) Measles
                (a) DPT3 - (b) Measles

Value                                     50% in each

quantitative or 20% in each district      district -- original             (a) 70%

Qualitative)                              target in PAD for                (b) 63%
                                          6/30/03



                                               iii

Date achieved 06/01/2001                     06/30/2003                          12/31/2007

Comments        The baseline coverage was estimated. Actual 2007 values above are from HMIS

(incl. %        data. Comparison of 2001 and 2007 household survey data (TLSLS) show

achievement)    marked improvements in coverage, from 25% to 74% for DPT3, and from 18%
                to 65% for measles.
                Percentage of births with skilled attendance:
Indicator 2 :   (a) Nationality
                (b) in each district (for lowest coverage district)
                                                                                 (a) 37.3%
Value           (a) 20% (note: baselines (a) 35%                                 (b) 61.4% (highest
quantitative or were overestimated)          (b) 20% (lowest                     district, 15%
Qualitative)    (b) 4%                       district)                           lowest)

Date achieved 06/01/2001                     06/30/2003                          12/31/2007
Comments        The highest percentage coverage is in Manatuto District. The lowest is 15.2% in
(incl. %        Ainaro District. Skilled attendance was not measured in 2001 TLSLS, but was
achievement)    found to be 41% in 2007 TLSLS (which is comparable to HMIS data).
                Percentage of population with access to:
Indicator 3 :   (a) basic health services within two hours from home
                (b) in-patient services within two hours from a source of basic health services
Value           (a) 60%                      (a) 95%                             (a) n.a.
quantitative or                                                                  (b) n.a.
Qualitative)    (b) 40%                      (B) 80%

Date achieved 06/30/2001                     06/30/2003                          12/31/2007

Comments        The percentage of population with access within two hours is no longer collected

(incl. %        by the MOH because it was deemed unreliable. However, the TLSLS (2007)

achievement)    puts the travel time to the nearest clinic at 54 minutes one way on average
                nationally.
Indicator 4 :   Number of outpatient visits per person per year at each health facility.
Value
quantitative or 1                            2.5                                 1.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                     06/30/2002                          12/31/2007

Comments        Baseline data were overestimated, and the original target of 2.5 OPD was

(incl. %        probably overoptimistic. "Cleaning" of HMIS data in 2006 resulted in

achievement)    downward revision of OPD data, but utilization clearly increased during the
                project.

Indicator 5 :   Percentage of health facilities reporting no stock outs of essential drugs lasting
                more than two weeks in the previous quarter.
Value                                                                            87% at SAMES,
quantitative or 60%                          90%                                 N.A. at facility
Qualitative)                                                                     level
Date achieved 06/01/2001                     03/30/2003                          12/31/2007
Comments        While essential drug stock data for SAMES central warehouse has been regularly
(incl. %        monitored, MOH has not yet put in place a system to regularly monitor drug
achievement)    availability at facility level. A facility-level survey is underway.
Indicator 6 :   Draft health sector policy paper discussed with stakeholders
Value                                        Health Policy                       Health Policy



                                                   iv

quantitative or                           Completed by                        Completed by June
Qualitative)                              June 2002                           2002
Date achieved                             06/30/2002                          06/30/2002
Comments
(incl. %        The MOH subsequently completed in 2007 a Health Sector Strategic Plan, which

achievement)    is being updated by the new government.

                Revised pharmaceuticals regulations:
Indicator 7 :   (a) Draft prepared
                (b) Regulations issued
                                          (a) Draft prepared                  (a) Draft prepared
Value                                     by June 2002                        by June 2002
quantitative or NA                        (b) Regulations                     (b) Regulations
Qualitative)                              issued by June                      issued by June 2003
                                          2003
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  06/30/2003                          06/30/2003
Comments
(incl. %        Updating of the essential drug list and standard treatment guidelines is currently

achievement)    underway.

Indicator 8 :   Human resource management and development plan adopted
Value                                     HR Strategy                         HR Strategy
quantitative or N.A.                      Adopted by June                     Adopted by June
Qualitative)                              2002                                2002
Date achieved 06/03/2002                  06/30/2002                          06/30/2002
Comments        HR strategy was updated in 2008 to reflect changing HR situation, including
(incl. %        arrival of 300 Cuban doctors and sending 600 Timorese for medical training in
achievement)    Cuba.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval            Revised      Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   N/A
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/27/2001            Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00


                                                v

  2   06/25/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            1.51
  3   12/19/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            2.15
  4   05/14/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            3.46
  5   06/30/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            4.42
  6   06/30/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            4.42
  7   12/15/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            5.23
  8   03/26/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            5.74
  9   12/23/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            7.51
  10  06/02/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            7.88
  11  12/20/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            8.96
  12  12/22/2006        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory    10.17
  13  06/20/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           10.86
  14  04/18/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    12.05



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

        The Second Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project (HSRDP II)
was approved on June 29, 2001 and launched in August 2001. The project constituted the
second phase of a multi-donor program. It aimed to restore health service provision after the
country's violent separation from Indonesia and the resulting collapse of state structures,
widespread destruction of infrastructure and institutions, and disruption of livelihoods. The
Project was financed by the multi-donor Trust Fund for Timor-Leste (TFET)1 administered
by the World Bank (TF-029888 for US$12.6 million) and an EC Trust Fund (TF-051363 for
Euro 16.17 million, US$20.36 million equivalent).

1.1     Context at Appraisal

        Timor-Leste was one of the poorest provinces in Indonesia at the time of its
separation under United Nations Administration in 1999. In the violence that followed
the 1999 referendum for independence, about 75 percent of health infrastructure was
destroyed or badly damaged, two thirds of the population was displaced, and virtually all
middle- and higher-level civil servants (mostly Indonesians), including health managers and
doctors, left the country. Timor-Leste had a rapid and peaceful political transition, however,
and did not go through a prolonged civil war as many other post-conflict countries. Many
NGOs that had arrived to provide rapid intervention and services left the country following
the initial post-conflict phase; those that remained were assigned to each district by the
Interim Health Authority (IHA) to manage and deliver health services.

        In 1999, the under-five mortality rate was 105 per 1000 and average life
expectancy at birth 54 years. By 2003 infant and child mortality rates estimates had
improved, but they were still high -- 60 and 83 per thousand live births respectively (DHS
2003). Data from a 2002 survey showed that 56 percent of children under the age of five had
experienced some form of illness in the two weeks preceding the survey, with malaria, acute
respiratory infections, and diarrhea being the leading diseases in this age group (MICS 2002).

        The Grant for the first Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Project
(HSRDP I) became effective in July 2000. It had two broad objectives: (i) to facilitate in
the short-term access to basic healthcare services in the aftermath of conflict, and (b) to build
the foundations for the development of health policies and a system appropriate to the new
country for the medium-term.         In addition to supporting reconstruction of basic health
infrastructure, HSRDP I sought to strengthen district capacity by supporting a transition from
reliance on international NGOs to establishment of district health teams led by Timorese.
The outcome of HSRDP I was rated Satisfactory by the ICR of June 27, 2005.




1
 TFET was a multi-donor Trust Fund (MDTF) established in 1999 with grant funds from 12 bilateral donors,
the European Commission, and the World Bank to support reconstruction and development of Timor-Leste. The
World Bank serves as the Trustee. HSRDP I and II were established as `child' accounts under the `parent'
MDTF.




                                                  1

        Until the discovery of oil and the establishment of the petroleum fund in 2005, the
general expectation by the government and the international community was that Timor-
Leste would remain a resource-poor and cash-strapped country for many years.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

        The overall objective of the health program was to rehabilitate and develop a cost-
effective and financially sustainable health system in Timor-Leste, responsive to the
immediate basic health needs of the population and, within an integrated and sustainable
policy framework, to prepare the health system to meet future needs.

        The PAD listed the following key performance indictors for the health program over
the next two years of implementation. They included several indicators established for the
HSRDP I -- in some cases refined -- as well as indicators of progress under the HSRDP II.
The baseline indicators were estimates, pending completion of the 2001 Timor-Leste
Standards of Living Survey (TLSLS) and the subsequent Demographic and Health Survey
(DHS2) in 2003. However, when these surveys were undertaken, neither the baseline nor
targets were changed. The indicators and targets were:

                                                                           June 01 June 02 June 03

1.      Children under 1 year immunized (in each district) more than:
        (a) DPT3                                                           20%      30%      50%
        (b) Measles                                                        20%      30%      50%

2.      Births with skilled attendance at birth more than:
        (a) nationally                                                     20%      25%      35%
        (b) in each district                                                4%      10%      20%

3.      Population with access to:
        (a) basic health services within 2 hours from home more than:      60%      90%      95%
        (b) inpatient services within two hours from a source of basic
            Health services more than:                                     40%      70%      80%

4.      Health facilities in district health plans appropriately utilized:
        Number of outpatient visits per capita per annum more than:         1        2        2.5

5.      Health facilities reporting no stock outs of essential drugs
        lasting more than 2 weeks in the previous quarter                  60%      90%      90%

6.      Draft health sector policy paper discussed with stakeholders and completed by June 2002

7.      Revised regulations on pharmaceuticals:
        (a) draft prepared by June 2002
        (b) regulations issued by June 2003

8.      Human resource management and development plan adopted by June 2002.




                                                     2

1.3      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

         The PDO was not revised, nor were the indicators. The original closing date of the
Grant was March 31, 2004. The project implementation period was known to be insufficient
at the time of appraisal, but the Grant could not be extended until an extension of the
"parent" trust fund was approved (see below). Both the TFET and the EC Grants were
extended several times (see 1.7 for details). While the initial indicator targets (for June 2003)
were clearly optimistic, the targets were not formally updated when the Grants were
extended.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries

         The restoration of health services and the development of a sustainable, efficient and
accessible health system were to benefit the entire population of Timor-Leste (787,000 in
2001). Women of reproductive age (15 to 49), and children under 5, who represented 23
percent and 15 percent of the population respectively, were to benefit significantly from
maternity care and child health (immunization and IMCI).

1.5      Original Components

         The project had three components:2

         Component 1: Support On-going Service Delivery (US$8.73 million) through the
provision of: (a) technical assistance to the new district health management teams in the
development and implementation of the district health plans, and by drawing on the support
of the specialized technical agencies, and (b) pharmaceuticals for hospitals and other health
facilities.

         Component 2: Improve the Range and Quality of Services, and Develop and
Implement Supporting Systems (US$19.50 million) through: (a) standardizing and
enhancing the quality of delivery of the basic service package (BSP); (b) strengthening
referral systems and establishing a rational hospital plan through assistance to the
rehabilitation/reconstruction, refurbishing and equipping of hospitals, the Central Medical
Laboratory, and communications and transport; and (c) provision of technical assistance to
help build supporting systems, such as laboratory services, and pharmaceuticals and medical
supply systems.

         Component 3: Develop and Implement Health Sector Policy and Management
Systems (US$4.23 million) to support policy development, including conducting a
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS2)3, and capacity building for policy formulation,
promulgation and implementation.            An important sub-component was to develop and
implement a Human Resource Management Strategy, including extensive training for

2
 Amounts per component relate to both grants. The amounts included in the PAD were revised at the time of
the signing of the EC Grant Agreement.
3
 In this document, DHS1 is the Division of Health Services and DHS2 is the Demographic Health Survey.



                                                     3

Timorese in a wide range of professions, including nursing, midwifery, public health,
pharmacy, health policy, etc.      Systems management was to be strengthened by: (i)
development of a Health and Management Information System (HMIS); (ii) re-establishing
the administrative infrastructure and processes at central and district levels; and (iii)
management training and capacity building, including through provision of technical
assistance. The component also financed audits, and the Health Project Management Unit's
(PMU) running costs, including staff training in financial management and procurement. As
in the HSRDP I, donor assistance to the health sector was coordinated within the framework
of an overall sector-wide program.

       Because HSRDP I focused primarily on rehabilitating Community Health Centers
(CHCs) and health posts, an important emphasis of the HSRDP II was secondary health care.
The MOH adopted a hospital rationalization strategy, in which the Guido Valadarez National
Hospital (GVNH) in Dili was designated the national referral hospital to be supported by five
regional hospitals. The Dili, Maubisse, Oecussi and Maliana hospitals were prioritized for
rehabilitation by the Project. The government agreed to provide $2.5 million in cofinancing
for GVNH, as well as to finance construction/rehabilitation of the other two regional
hospitals (Bacau and Suai) using the designs developed for the project, with supervision from
the Project Management Unit (PMU). Significant attention was given during appraisal to
ensure that hospitals were efficiently designed and that the number of beds and staff could be
sustained within the projected government budget. In addition, to ensure adequate funding
for primary care, MOH agreed to allocate no more than 40 percent of its annual recurrent
budget to hospitals.

       While it was recognized that the construction of hospitals under Component 1 would
take more than two years to construct, the extension of the TFET "parent" fund had not yet
been approved at the time of HSRDP II approval. Thus the closing date for HSRDP II could
not be beyond the closing date for TFET. While it was understood by the Government
(GoTL) and DPs that the Grant closing date would be extended as soon as the overall TFET
extension was approved, this was never noted in the PAD.

1.6    Revised Components

       Components were not revised.

1.7    Other significant changes

       The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and components did not change.
However, the original implementation timetable proved ambitious. The scale, emphasis, and
timing of individual activities within the components also evolved in response to technical
assistance under the project, which suggested an increasing emphasis in some areas,
including: (i) development and implementation of the district health plans, and (ii)
strengthening capacity of the Servico Autonomo de Medicamentos e Equipamentos de Saude
(SAMES). While hospital design and construction encountered considerable delays, the
extensions enabled completion of construction of the four hospitals, contracting and delivery
of some medical equipment, and additional training and capacity building activities.



                                              4

However, due to problems with the procurement of medical equipment, the extensions did
not allow time for contracting and delivery of about US$2 million worth of medical
equipment before the closing dates. Instead, that Bank reached an agreement with GoTL that
US$2 million originally programmed for hospital equipment under the project would be used
to finance additional works at GVNH, and that the GoTL budget would finance the
remaining hospital equipment (see more details later in the ICR).

         Closing Date Extensions. The closing date for the Grant under the Trust Fund for
Timor-Leste administered by the World Bank (TFET ­ TF-29888) was extended 3 times with
a total extension of 4 years and three months: (i) June 30, 2005, (ii) June 30, 2007, and (iii)
July 31, 20084. The Administration Agreement with the European Commission (EC) was
extended from August 31, 2006 until December 31, 2007, and subsequently until October 31,
2008 (reflecting a final closing date for the EC Grant Agreement of July 31, 2008).5

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

         When troops from the International Force for Timor-Leste (INTEFET) arrived in
1999, the health situation in the country was precarious. The health system under Indonesia
had not performed well; the territory's health indicators were among the poorest in the
archipelago and other countries in the region. The health services: (i) were chronically
under-funded; (ii) public subsidies were not allocated in a pro-poor basis; (iii) supported
overcapacity infrastructure and staff without essential quality enhancing inputs (drugs,
equipment, etc); (iv) provided in many cases poor quality services; and (iv) were
unresponsive to the needs of beneficiaries. In addition, the quality assurance systems and
regulatory framework did not produce adequate information for planning and evaluation
purposes.

         Implementation of activities, including construction of the hospitals, was disrupted
due to the political crisis in April-July 2006. Contractors and key personnel left the country
for several months; internally displaced persons (IDPs) installed themselves on Dili hospital
grounds, as well as SAMES, and import of essential materials halted. The IDP camp
remained on the Dili hospital grounds through most of the remaining construction phase,
until IDPs were relocated by mutual agreement with government in May 20086.



4
  Although the last extension was until June 30, 2008, it was subsequently extended "retroactively" to July 31,
2008 to ensure delivery of hospital equipment procured through "shopping" and completion of the Dili hospital
rehabilitation.
5According to the Framework Agreement between the EC and the World Bank, a two-month grace period is
required between the closing date of Administrative Agreement (between World Bank and EC) and end
disbursement date of Grant Agreement. Normally, a four-month grace period is required between the Grant
closing date and the grant's end-disbursement date, but on an exceptional basis this was shortened to just one
month.
6The ICR Mission confirmed that IDPs relocated from the hospital grounds received financial compensation
following Government's guidelines.




                                                      5

        The European Commission (EC) financed an additional grant to the MOH of 3.8
million through a World Bank trust fund arrangement (TF-054512), which was approved in
October 2005, to support: (i) further strengthening of SAMES; (ii) implementation of the
human resources development plan; and (iii) ongoing service delivery, including
rehabilitation of clinics and health posts. In parallel, the EC financed a technical assistance
contract (Support to the Implementation of the Health Sector Investment Program (SIHSIP)),
which supports the MOH in the development and implementation of health policies, services
and programs to enhance health status -- including support for development of the Health
Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP), and updating of the human resources strategy. The Grant is
scheduled to close August 2009, but is likely to be extended another year.

        Through a bilateral agreement between GoTL and Cuba, about 300 Cuban doctors
have been working in Timor-Leste since 2006, and over 600 Timorese have been sent for
medical training in Cuba. While the availability of the Cuban doctors increased human
resource availability, it led to a need to revisit the Human Resource Management Strategy. It
also brought challenges in standardizing treatment practices and contributed to a significant
increase in drug prescriptions and difficulties in projecting drug needs. The MOH has made
progress in addressing these concerns, and is currently updating the standard treatment
guidelines and essential drug list (with support from the ongoing EC grant (TF-054512)).

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

        Project Design and Preparation. The HSRDP II was prepared and appraised in May
2001. The team led by the Bank comprised the EC, AusAID, JICA, Portugal, and Brazil.
Mission members were knowledgeable on both the technical issues and the on-ground
situation in the health sector. The Bank's Sector Manager, who had been the team leader at
the time of preparation of the HSRDP I, provided continued strategic guidance and active
support to the team. The project design was appropriate and grounded in technical,
institutional, and social analyses; however, for reasons explained later in this section, the
project had an unrealistic implementation schedule. The project focus and scope had high
ownership by DHS1 and the district authorities. An important feature of its commitment at
the design stage was the preparation by DHS1 staff of a work program, which became the
basis of a program management plan and budget.

        Three key decisions arising from the dialogue between Government and DPs
were critical for project design. First, agreement on the rationale for activities to be
supported by the project and acknowledgement that there was a critical need to invest in the
construction and equipping of selected hospitals. Second, agreement on promoting a more
integrated system approach to the definition and implementation of health sector policy and
on the need for the project to support system development in a few key areas, rather than
attempting to address the full range of health problems. Third, recognition that Timor-Leste
management should lead the district health planning process, while ensuring that the process
was supported by management advisers in the central DHS1, which main function would be
district management support.

        During conception of HSRDP I, it was intended that the first operation would
concentrate on basic health services while hospital issues were to take place under the


                                                  6

expected second and third tranches of TFET. By the time the HSRDP II was prepared, it was
decided to have only two projects necessitating a focus on hospital construction and
equipment under HSRDP II. While it was acknowledged that construction of hospitals was
to take longer than the implementation period established for the project, the closing date of
the parent TF did not allow for establishing a realistic implementation period for a project of
this nature, i.e. 5 years.

        Lessons incorporated into the Project design were well documented in the PAD.
They took account of: (i) other post-conflict countries, (ii) health sector development
programs in other countries, and (iii) the ongoing HSRDP I.

        Safeguards. The project components and activities were designed explicitly to deal
with potential environmental and social concerns. The design followed recommendations
made at the Environmental Meeting on May 29, 2001. Environmental concerns that were
addressed at the design stage related to: (i) land issues, (ii) environmentally sustainable
construction, and (iii) waste management.

        Risk Assessment. For the most part, the risk assessment assumptions made at
appraisal reflected a good understanding of operating in an environment of limited
institutional capacity and the ratings recognized this accordingly. In general, adequate
mitigation measures were identified and, in practice, they worked. The exception was the
rating of "M" for adhering to the rehabilitation schedule for hospitals, which was
substantially underestimated. The assumption that this risk was mitigated by the fact that the
hospital planning study had been mobilized and the RFP for the design work was under
preparation was wrong. It should have been anticipated that the construction program would
encounter problems along the way.          That said, the supervision team recognized this
shortcoming shortly after the Grant became effective and raised the risk rating of this activity
to "Substantial".

        Provision was made for considerable technical assistance, on-the job training,
seminars, workshops, study tours and operational research, at all levels to create and
underpin internal dialogue on the best way forward.         Training funded by the project,
including support to UN agencies to provide guidance in the implementation of activities,
assisted sustainability and capacity development. Adequate attention was given to preempt
possible environmental issues during project implementation. However, a clearer focus on
realistic implementation schedules, given the institutional limitations, post-conflict situation,
and the complexities of procurement in the health sector in general, would have been more
appropriate. There was no quality-at-entry review by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

2.2     Implementation

        The ICR mission rates implementation as Moderately Satisfactory. The project
suffered from delays in implementation related to: (i) political tensions and civil unrest, (ii)
complex design/contracting/construction issues, (iii) medical equipment procurement delays,
(iv) SAMES weaknesses, (v) limitations with quality collection and analysis, (vi) lack of




                                               7

mid-term review to guide latter years of implementation. The shortcomings directed related
to implementation are discussed in more detail later in this section.

        The project was implemented during periods of political tensions and discontent
among urban youth. Beginning in April 2006, a major political crisis led to confrontations
between the police and armed forces, which exacerbated regional tensions. Dozens of people
were killed, thousands of homes were burned and up to 150,000 became internally displaced
in a cycle of violence and retribution that lasted several months. MOH continued to function
throughout the crisis, one of the few government ministries to do so. Despite heightened
political tensions and regional divisions, MOH senior officials and health professionals
remained neutral, maintained their professional standards, and ensured service delivery in the
country throughout the crisis. While most of the violence was concentrated in Dili between
April-August 2006, instability and clashes continued well into 2007 and culminated with the
assassination attempt on the President and the Prime Minister in February 2008.

        Not withstanding the political and civil unrest, Timor-Leste has accomplished a great
deal in the health sector since the country's separation from Indonesia. Important
accomplishments include the: (i) formulation of policies and strategy development for the
health sector, giving priority to primary health care; (ii) development of district health
planning, budgeting, and management; (iii) allocation of substantial resources for the health
sector7, while maintaining hospital expenditures at 40% or less of allocated budget resources;
(iv) rehabilitation and rationalization of health care infrastructure, including hospitals and
community health centers; (v) significant improvement in health indicators, including
deliveries attended by health personnel, immunization coverage; (vi) development and
adjustment of the health workforce; (vii) development and adoption of the basic service
package (BSP), and Hospital Services Package (HSP); (viii) development of MOH
organization and its planning and implementation capacities; and (ix) development of a
comprehensive, needs-based, Strategic Health Plan covering the period July 2007 to June
2012, and related Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). In mid-2008, MOH
approved a new organic plan, which resulted in a major reorganization, the creation of new
departments, and appointments of new directors and heads of departments. Development
partners, in particular the EC-funded technical assistance and the Bank, have made an
important contribution to these accomplishments. More specifically, it is clear that both
HSRDPs and complementary EC technical assistance have made a strong contribution to the
development of the health sector.

        The project was successful in delivering most of the outputs under the three
components. Some exceptions are summarized above, with details in Annex 2 ­ Outputs by
Component. As expected, implementation has been challenging given: (i) that local capacity
at the working level is severely constrained, and to a great extent dependent on foreign



7The discovery of oil and establishment of the Petroleum Fund has significantly increased budgetary resources.
However, GoTL has committed to remain within annual sustainable expenditure limits. The MOH requested a
budget of US$33 million equivalent for 2008, which was subsequently reduced to US$23 million.             An
additional US$8 million was allocated to MOH during the mid-term budget review, which created a challenge
for MOH to commit these funds before the end of the calendar year.



                                                      8

advisors and professionals, and (ii) the fragile environment where there have been periods of
civil unrest and internal displacement. The discovery of oil and the establishment of the
petroleum fund resulted in a major change in the fiscal and economic outlook, creating fiscal
space for more ambitious expansion of health coverage, but also placing a greater premium
on the need to strengthen capacity to execute the national budget as well as externally-
financed projects. Details on outputs are presented in Annex 2.

        The project supported rehabilitation of referral hospitals, which together with the
support under the HSRDP I for the reconstruction of community health centers and health
posts, have gone a long way to re-establish the infrastructure destroyed after the separation
from Indonesia and, thus, a functioning health service. While the hospital construction was
substantially delayed, the hospitals were constructed to a good quality standard. Reasons for
the delay included: (i) problems with the preparation of the RFP for the hospital design and
supervision contracts and (ii) delays with the selection of construction companies and
subsequent delays in the actual construction, partially caused by the civil unrest of mid-2006.
The three regional hospitals were finally completed by October 2007, and rehabilitation of
GVNH was completed by July 2008. While various missions noted the delays in the
construction program, they also recognized the importance of getting the program "right".

        In terms of the first component ­ Supporting ongoing service delivery, all planned
outputs were completed, albeit with varying degrees of efficiency and timeliness. Problems
remain with the procurement and provision of pharmaceuticals through SAMES and the
overall operations of SAMES. Most activities under Component 2 ­ Range and quality of
services and develop/implement support systems were implemented, with the notable
exception of the procurement of a large portion of medical equipment for the refurbished
hospitals and central lab. All activities planned under Component 3 ­ Develop/implement
health sector policy and management systems were implemented. Several of those are of
a continuing nature and are being supported by the new AusAID-World Bank financed
project (the Health Sector Strategic Plan Support Project (HSSP-SP)) approved on December
13, 2007.

        The ICR team noted four main shortcomings in the implementation of the project: (i)
weak SAMES institutionalization, (ii) inadequate quality of health information data, (iii)
significant delays in procurement of hospital equipment, and (iv) lack of Mid-Term Review.

        Establishing a well-functioning central medical stores has proven challenging in a
post-conflict environment.     SAMES was initially managed through a project-financed
contract with a consulting firm (Crown Agents), but MOH was concerned that this
contracting arrangement did not contribute to development of local capacity. By 2005,
management responsibility was transferred to Timorese staff, supported by international
technical advisors who were financed directly by the project.         Despite the substantial
investments in international technical advisors, SAMES has continued to experience
problems related to weak management and oversight arrangements for drug management,
procurement, logistics, and supply system. Although progress has been made in establishing
stock management, the computerized warehouse management system (WMS) has suffered
from weaknesses and broke down in late 2007. With support from the supplier, it is now



                                                9

operating. Equally, while improvements were made in financial management, its financial
management and accounting software is not integrated with the WMS. Given the difficulties
in estimating needs at the district level, SAMES is not able to make realistic projections in
which to base its requirements.

        The project provided direct financing for purchase of pharmaceuticals (through both
TFET and the EC Grant) using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
Pharmaceutical procurement was initially undertaken by the PMU, but by 2007 was
delegated to SAMES.        The transfer of procurement responsibility was, however, made
without evaluating the capacity of SAMES to take over this task. Persistent difficulties were
encountered throughout the project, including long lead times for ICB (often taking up to a
year), delays in deliveries by suppliers, difficulties in processing payments to suppliers
(including Letters of Credit). While some of these problems highlight the need for further
strengthening of procurement capacity at SAMES, in retrospect the ICB process for
pharmaceutical procurement was not well-adapted to the Timor-Leste context. The Bank and
SAMES are considering other approaches for future, including piloting long-term "frame
contracts" with pre-qualified suppliers.

        A fundamental problem has been that key SAMES managers did not have the
requisite training and experience to effectively take on the responsibilities being carried out
by the international advisor. Improvements are apparent since the new Director General took
office in February 2008, but SAMES needs more qualified personnel and further
strengthening of basic systems, including its human resources systems and strategies to
ensure effective operations.

        NGOs had taken a lead role in the development and maintenance of health
information generation, analysis and reporting, including logistical support for collection of
data from health facilities. Upon their departure and assumption of management by local
district management teams, the quality of the information collected and analyzed suffered.
With technical assistance under the Project, including support from WHO, efforts have been
put in place to strengthen capacity at the district level to collate, interpret and report on health
information. These efforts, however, have not been uniform and improvements are still
needed. They will continue to be supported under the new project. (Please also see Section
2.3).

        The most serious shortcoming of the project was the delays and problems in the
procurement of medical equipment for the reconstructed regional hospitals, Dili Hospital,
and the Central Lab. Even though MOH is widely recognized as one of the more effective
government agencies, the procurement of hospital equipment encountered a number of
difficulties. Delays were precipitated by the lack of sound procurement expertise in the PMU
due to the high turnover and quality of technical assistance in this important area. The
procurement delays resulted in hospitals still not able to perform all procedures eight months
after their official opening. Senior political leaders on several occasions publicly voiced his
concerns regarding delays in procurement of hospital equipment.




                                                10

         Although the initial process for identifying hospital equipment needs was initiated in
2004, the procurement for an estimated US$2.5 in hospital equipment (using ICB) was
launched in mid-2006. In April 2007, MOH declared bid failure due to lack of responsive
bidders. The Bank asked the MOH to revise the bidding documents and also provided a
special waiver to allow the equipment to be purchased through "shopping" procedures, which
are more flexible and rapid than ICB. MOH opted to use shopping for about US$0.6 million,
however, while continuing with ICB processes for the rest of the equipment. Although the
Grants' closing dates were extended to allow completion of this procurement, the process
proved taxing on MOH. In particular, MOH was without a full-time procurement advisor or
biomedical equipment specialist through most of the critical period for this procurement.8 A
new procurement advisor arrived in February 2008, however, the Bid Evaluation Reports for
the ICB were only sent to the Bank for review in April 2008 and the Bank was unable to
provide a No Objection because the evaluations were not done in conformity with the
original bidding documents.

         Because the EC had clearly stated in approving the final extension that no further
extensions could be considered, the project team made arrangements with MOF for: (i) the
EC Grant to finance instead US$2 million of additional construction on the Dili hospital, and
(ii) the Government's budget to allocate up to US$2 million in additional funds to purchase
the remaining hospital equipment.9 Contracts were signed with six suppliers and the medical
equipment has now been delivered. Because of availability of additional funds from the EC
Grant due to the strengthening of the Euro in relation to the dollar, in fact, US$2.5 million
equivalent (instead of US$2 million) was used from the EC grant to support Phase 3 of the
Dili Hospital.10

         Last, but not least, a shortcoming in implementation was the lack of a Mid-Term
Review to: (i) take stock of project progress and sector performance thus far; (ii) make
necessary adjustments, including in the indicator targets; (iii) agree on more realistic
implementation schedules; and (iv) provide overall direction for the remaining of the
implementation period. The task team at the time considered a formal MTR not to be
necessary, given that the Aide Memoires from the joint donor missions provided
comprehensive reviews of sector performance, and the design of the second EC grant (TF-


8A biomedical equipment consultant was contracted sporadically during the procurement cycle (initially by the
supervising architecture firm for the GVNH construction, and later directly by MOH), but the lack of
continuous engagement contributed to the difficulties and delays encountered.           A full-time biomedical
equipment advisor finally arrived in mid-2008 (financed by EC TF 054512) to help establish a maintenance
system for the equipment.
9 In completing the procurement of the remaining hospital equipment, the GoTL revised the bid evaluation
reports on the basis of World Bank comments, which resulted in a substantial reduction of the total cost (by
nearly US$800,000).
10In the EC's Administrative Agreement with the World Bank, "hospital construction and equipment" are listed
on the same budget line. With limited time before project closing and based on consultation with Legal
Department, it was agreed that the Bank could approve a reallocation from equipment to hospital construction
without awaiting formal approval from the EC. The Grant Agreement was amended accordingly, and the EC
was informed in writing of this decision. After the project closing date, the EC expressed concern that they had
not approved the reallocation. Such approval was not required by the Administrative Agreement, and waiting
for approval would have resulted in the Dili hospital not being completed, all four hospital remaining
unequipped, and more than $2.5 million cancelled from the EC grant. The Bank team stands by its decision.



                                                      11

054512) in 2005 provided a further opportunity for stocktaking of project and sector
performance. Notwithstanding, in the view of the ICR team, the absence of a formal MTR
was a weakness of supervision.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

        The results framework in Annex 1 of the PAD included many key sector
performance indicators, some of which were not reported systematically. However, MOH
and the project team did monitor and reported systematically in Aide Memoires on the
Project Performance Indicators as per the Grant Agreement, which were the same for the
PDO listed in the PAD (Section 1.2).

        The end-of-project targets in the PAD were for June 30, 2003; most were surpassed.
Information regarding in-patient services within two hours from a source of basic health
services is not available. The Grants' closing dates were extended several times. However,
the targets' dates, were never changed.

        Progress in establishing a reliable HMIS has been hindered by inadequately
coordinated technical support, due in part to a high turnover of technical assistance. A series
of international consultants have supported these efforts over the past several years, adopting
different approaches. With technical assistance under the Project and support from WHO,
efforts have been put in place to strengthen capacity at the district level to collate, interpret
and report on health information. These efforts, however, have not been uniform and
improvements are still needed. They will continue to be supported under the Health Sector
Strategic Plan Support Project (HSSP-SP). Although HMIS data should be viewed with
caution, it is notable that coverage estimates from 2007 HMIS data are comparable to those
obtained from the 2007 TLSLS household survey. This suggests that despite continuing
issues with quality and timeliness, the HMIS has become an important tool for monitoring
coverage trends and performance.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

        Activities under the project complied with environmental safeguards as follows:

        Land Issues. There was no land acquisition or resettlement under the project. IDPs
in the Dili Hospital compound (see Section 2.2) were resettled in 2008 and compensated in
line with government procedures. In Maubisse, former communal lands were added to the
hospital grounds and families cultivating the land were compensated through a satisfactory
consultative process.

        Environmental Sustainable Construction. All buildings constructed or renovated
under the project ­ hospitals, warehouse, laboratory        make the maximum use of cross-
ventilation and have large roofs overhangs to minimize solar penetration into rooms. All
rooms are well ventilated and cool and are naturally lit to make limited use of electricity.

        Waste Management. Two tools were funded under the project. First, the project
financed the design and installation of incinerators (larger versions of the incinerators


                                              12

approved for the health centers and hospitals under the first project). Second, all sanitary
waste from hospitals and other health facilities constructed under the project are being treated
in septic tanks with the overflow taken to soak ways.

        In terms of fiduciary safeguards:

        Financial management. Overall financial management is rated Satisfactory. An
experienced long-term financial advisor was in place for four years, for most of the project's
life. Although "mapped" to the PMU, the FM advisor not only contributed to effective FM
oversight and management of the project, but was also effective in training Timorese
counterparts, establishing financial management systems, and mainstreaming the FM
function into the MOH. FM performance declined temporarily for a few months between the
departure of this advisor in February 2008 and the hiring of a new advisor in May 2008, but
subsequently improved prior to project closing.

        Procurement. The project financed a series of procurement advisors in the PMU, but
high turnover of this position, the absence of a procurement advisor from June 2007 to
February 2008, and the poor performance of the advisor hired in February 2008, contributed
to shortcomings in procurement management and limited capacity building for MOH. It also
contributed to the problems in hospital equipment procurement cited above. Procurement
performance was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory in the final year of the project.
Civil works oversight remained satisfactory overall, however, in part because civil works
were directly supervised by the PMU coordinator (a civil engineer) and by the project
engineer, who also had procurement background. A new procurement advisor was appointed
after project closing. It is expected that the HSSP-SP project and the multi-sectoral Public
Sector Financial Management Capacity Building Project (PFMCBP) will continue to
strengthen procurement performance of MOH.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

        Support to the sector will continue through the ongoing EC grant (TF-054512), which
is expected to be extended through August 2010, as well as the HSSP-SP, which was
approved in December 2007. The HSSP-SP is being financed through an AusAID Grant of
AUD 21.9 million managed by IDA through a trust fund arrangement11 and an IDA Grant of
US$1.0 million. The overall objective of the project is to improve the quality and coverage
of preventive and curative health services, particularly for women and children, to accelerate
progress toward the health MDGs. The HSSP-SP has two parts: (i) direct financial support
using the health sector Strategic Plan and the MTEF framework, and (ii) addressing
challenges and innovations needed for the health sector to be prepared for the next generation
of issues. The elements addressed under the HSSP-SP are a logical continuation of the
support provided under the HSRDPs, following the gains achieved in the sector since 1999.
It addresses "second generation" challenges to further help develop the health system and
improve health outcomes.


11
   AusAID and the Bank have agreed to establish a Multidonor Trust Fund to facilitate the entry of other
development partners in the future.



                                                13

        Following the improvement of the fiscal situation on the basis of the discovery of oil
and the establishment of the petroleum fund, GoTL decided to increase the budget for health
in nominal and real terms (not in percentage of total) and to place more medical doctors in
the districts. This has raised expectations with the population in terms of the level and
quality of health care and may have had an impact on health seeking behavior. The Health
Seeking Behavior Study being finalized with funding from AusAID should provide further
insights into these issues.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

        The project's development objectives and design were of high overall relevance to
the development of the health sector. The development objectives were and continue to be
integral to the Government and Bank's strategies in the sector. The Bank's implementation
assistance remains important to achieving the current Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(FY06-08), which aims to support Timor-Leste in consolidating its early progress and
moving from a focus on post-conflict issues to creating conditions for growth and poverty
reduction.     The project aimed at supporting the delivery of sustainable services, while
creating productive employment through the construction/rehabilitation of facilities, both of
which are main pillars of the current CAS.

3.2     Achievements of Project Development Objectives

        The project was successful in meeting its development objectives and key
performance indicators, with moderate shortcomings explained elsewhere in this ICR. While
some of the performance targets should have been updated to reflect grant extensions, this
shortcoming is reflected in the project supervision rating rather than in rating the DO. The
risk at the time of the CIR that development outcomes (or expected outcomes) will not be
maintained are rated Moderate.             Given that the original development objectives were
broad,12 the discussion below addresses the various aspects of the DO and associated
indicators in turn.

        Rehabilitation and development of the health system. The project made a substantial
contribution to rehabilitation and development of a health system that had been largely
destroyed in 1999. This includes construction and equipment of the tertiary and three referral
hospitals (albeit completed behind schedule); substantial investments in technical assistance
and training for Timorese health staff and managers; and establishment of basic support
services (such as the central medical stores).

        Financial sustainability and cost-effectiveness.



12"Support the rehabilitation and development of a cost-effective and financially sustainable health system
responsive to the immediate basic health needs of the population within a well integrated and sustainable policy
framework to prepare the health system to meet future needs."



                                                      14

    ·  The hospital rationalization plan and design and construction of the hospitals
       contributed to a more cost-effective use of sector resources than would have likely
       occurred in the absence of the project. The major concern is ensuring adequate
       institutional arrangements and financial allocations for maintenance of hospital
       infrastructure and equipment. The ongoing EC grant and HSSP-SP are supporting
       establishment of a medical equipment maintenance system, and recruitment of an
       infrastructure maintenance advisor is underway.        The sectoral MTEF estimated
       requirements for maintenance, but the 2009 GoTL budget did not provide adequate
       financing. This will be a focus for ongoing dialogue.
    ·  Timor-Leste has continued its policy of allocating no more than 40% of resources to
       hospitals, which avoided the problem in many developing countries where a much
       higher percentage of resources go to the hospital sector.
    ·  Financial sustainability will be likely assured by the continuing efforts of the
       Government and DPs to address issues in a sector-wide manner and MOF's
       commitment to take advantage of additional government's resources through the
       Petroleum Fund, which has created fiscal space for sustaining existing investments
       and more ambitious expansion of health coverage.
    ·  While SAMES has not yet fully realized its potential as an efficient supplier of high-
       quality, cost-effective essential drugs for the population, its performance had
       improved by the end of the project and is on a path toward reaching this goal.

       Development of a well integrated and sustainable policy framework. Reconstruction
took place in the context of the formulation of policies and strategies to guide the
development of the sector. Specific contributions included:
    ·   Strengthening the policy and institutional framework for the sector, including support
        for development of the initial health policy document, the human resources
        development strategy, and the initial pharmaceutical policy. EC technical assistance
        provided complementary support for TA financed by the project.
    ·   Establishing key performance indicators to assessing sector performance, and
        undertaking regular reviews of sector performance as part of joint donor missions.
    ·   Supporting establishment of a functioning Timorese administrative structure for the
        sector, and improving the functioning district health management teams through
        technical assistance, training, and "learning by doing."
    ·   Establishing the framework for donor coordination through the establishment of a
        sector wide trust fund arrangement for international assistance. This has been
        effective in mobilizing substantial resources and has reduced transaction costs.

       The project responded to the immediate basic health needs of the population by
helping to re-establish a functioning health service, including through rehabilitation and
rationalization of health care infrastructure, human resource development, procurement and
distribution of essential medicines, and strengthened district planning and implementation.
Delivery of health services in general has improved significantly from 1999, as evidenced by
the HMIS and household surveys. While general concerns surrounding data quality continue,
the data show an improving trend for immunization coverage and deliveries attended by
health personnel. The tables below present a snapshot of trends in vaccination data in
2007/second quarter 2008 relative to 2006. From a state of utter devastation in late 1999, by



                                               15

2007: (i) between 70-85% of the population has a health facility within 2-hours travel time
from their home; (ii) an estimated 37% of births were attended by a skilled health worker,
(iii) an estimated 63% of children under 1 year of age had been immunized for measles, and
70% for DPT3, and (iv) utilization of health facilities has increased from about 0.5 visits per
year to 1.9 visits per year per capita.

             Table 1: Key Indicators and trends from HMIS data (% coverage)
Qrtr.                                                                         Cumulative % of
                     Measles                               DPT3             deliveries attended by
                                                                               health personnel
          2006        2007        2008        2006        2007       2008  2006     2007     2008
1st       13.8        14.9        26.7        14.5        16.5       28.3   8.2      8.6      8.5
2nd       30.9        30.2        32.0        32.2        32.3       33.0  15.2     18.5     18.0
3rd       46.4        46.8                    47.2        50.0             20.1     27.4
4th       61.0        62.5                    63.5        69.8             27.2     37.3
Source: MOH Annual Statistical Book and MOH tables (January-June 2008). Note: HMIS data prior to 2006
overestimated coverage, and are therefore not included in this table.


   Table 2: Key Indicators and trends from 2001 and 2007 TLSLS data (% coverage)
Qrtr.                                                                     Deliveries attended by
                    Measles                            DPT3                 health personnel
2001                    17                                25                      N.A.
2007                    59                                74                        37
Source: 2001 and 2007 Timor-Leste Standards of Living Survey (TLSLS).

        As with any sector-wide program, establishing causal linkages between project
activities and overall sector performance is difficult. The majority of project financing was
devoted to upgrading and equipping referral hospitals. These hospitals were completed a
year before project closing and fully equipped after project closing; as such, while they are
expected to generate substantial benefits for the population in the coming years,
improvements in sector indicators during implementation (such as skilled attendance of
deliveries) cannot be attributed to these investments. A strong case can be made, however,
that the project contributed to improved performance in coverage of primary health care,
because:

     ·   The project was engaged in nearly all aspects of the health sector, including through
         direct investment (in infrastructure and essential commodities), technical assistance
         and training, including strengthening of district-level planning and implementation;
     ·   The project supported the development and adoption of the basic service package
         and hospital services package, which complemented the investments in rehabilitation
         of health clinics and health posts made under HSRDP1;
     ·   The project and joint donor supervision missions provided the framework for sector
         coordination and annual review of sector performance, which maintained a collective
         focus on the need to continue coverage and quality of basic services.

3.3     Efficiency



                                                     16

        In the absence of sufficient indicators and evidence to rate efficiency rigorously,
efficiency is considered to be modest overall. The PAD included a cost-benefit analysis that
was necessarily limited in terms of availability and reliability of baseline data. Some of the
efficiencies discussed have not been realized, and for others available data are inadequate to
undertake a robust analysis. In terms of technical efficiency, for the civil works component
(which represented the majority of project financing), the hospitals plans and technical
designs were cost-effective, and were implemented mostly within budget (most of additional
financing at GVNH were for additional works, rather than cost overruns, although the civil
unrest and presence of IDPs at GVNH contributed to modest cost overruns and contract
variances). The delays in construction and equipment delivery meant the hospitals began
generating the anticipated benefits at least two years later than anticipated, however.

        The PAD also anticipated improved efficiency and reduction of waste as a result of an
increase in drug procurement and distribution. While cost efficiencies may have been
achieved through ICB procurement of drugs, continued problems with delayed deliveries and
distribution suggest that the anticipated efficiencies were not fully achieved. The project also
supported development of a basic service package for primary care, focusing on cost-
effective interventions. In terms of allocative efficiency, the Credit Agreement included a
covenant to limit hospital expenditures at less than 40 percent of the MOH recurrent budget.
MOH adhered to this agreement, which meant that the majority of GoTL resources focused
on basic health services (which address the majority of the burden of disease in Timor-
Leste).

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

        The project design was highly relevant, achieved the majority of its development
objectives with modest shortcomings (despite a difficult post-conflict context), and
contributed to improvement in overall coordination and performance of the health sector. On
this basis, the ICR rates the overall outcome of the project as Moderately Satisfactory
(consistent with the last ISR ratings). Project objectives and design were appropriate to the
challenges of the sector and were consistent with the program approach agreed by DHS1
with joint missions as part of the design of the HSRDP I. However, the implementation
schedule at the design stage was unrealistic as it was linked to the closing date of the
Umbrella EC Grant. Flexibility was exercised during implementation and some activities
initially planned for the HSRDP II, i.e. construction of additional community health centers,
the Centro Clinico in Dili, procurement of communication equipment, were implemented
under HSRDP I. This level of flexibility was possible because of the nature of the sector
wide program approach.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

        Available household survey data suggest that the poor, rural population remains the
most vulnerable to losing income-earning potential due to morbidity, but the situation has
improved since the launch of the project. Adult morbidity ­ largely a consequence of malaria


                                                17

and TB -- can best be addressed through an effective and broadly accessible primary health
care system. According to the 2007 TLSLS, 74.6% of people surveyed (71% of the rural
population) who reported health complaints in the month prior sought treatment, a significant
increase from 51% in 2001. In 2001, 14% of the population had visited a health care
provider or facility in the month prior to the survey, which increased by 2007 to 17% of the
population. One-way travel time to the nearest facility reduced from 62 minutes in 2001 to
47 minutes in 2007. Nevertheless, in spite of these indicators, the number of days in which
activities were disrupted due to illness increased from 4.4 to 5.1 over the same period.
Fertility and malnutrition have seen the least improvement, however -- the total fertility rate
remains among the highest in the world, and over half of children are malnourished.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

        A key problem faced by the health system has been the low capacity of the staff in
managerial positions at district levels. As a short-term strategy for capacity development,
WHO funded basic training in health management for district health management teams. For
longer term managerial support, a mentoring program was introduced through the
recruitment of five international public health specialists (based in the districts and covering
2-3 districts each) with field experience in the area of district health management. The
rationale for part-time support was that it would stimulate assumption of responsibilities by
the district management teams as the presence of NGOs was seen as a form of
disempowerment over the performance of the health staff.           Increased capacity and the
development of a radio information system helped to improve this area. While this type of
support to the district health management teams was discontinued for a period, MOH has
recognized the importance of continuing technical support and has recently engaged four
district management advisors to further strengthen district planning, budgeting and service
delivery. Some strong district managers have emerged as evidenced by the significant
increases in key indicators in some districts.

        The project provided a great deal of training in all aspects of health education, health
care delivery, systems and policy development, and in management.              The project has
financed a number of scholarships and fellowships, including short-term training abroad to
update and extend clinical skills and management competences, and longer-term training for
doctors, generally for students, who have had their training disrupted (See Annex 7).
However, concerted efforts are still needed in this area, including improving hospital
management, an area which is seen as weak and is hindering the provision of good health
hospital care.

        An important outcome of both HSRDPs has been the initiation of a sector wide
approach to development assistance, which success should not be underestimated. This
approach has reduced duplication of efforts, minimized transactions costs, and facilitated
targeting of funding towards priority health sector interventions. The projects have provided
a successful mechanism for donor coordination. The bi-annual Joint Donor Missions have
been a good forum to monitor progress across the sector and to discuss and agree on strategic
decisions on health issues. The decision by MOH to establish a Health Steering Committee




                                              18

to be supported by thematic groups with plans to meet quarterly will further enhance
development assistance coordination.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

        A complementary benefit of the project was that the construction of hospitals and
employment of staff for construction projects were to contribute to the recovery of the
economy as a whole. Added groups of beneficiaries, which were not fully recognized in the
PAD, have been: (i) local communities, as the project has promoted community and
stakeholders participation in the planning and decision making of district health plans, (ii)
Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), who found both refuge and cash-for-work incentives on
Dili hospital grounds, even though their presence complicated hospital rehabilitation. No
unintended negative outcomes or impacts were identified.

        The effectiveness of the health sector response during and following the 2006
political crisis (see "Timor-Leste Health Sector Resilience and Performance in Times of
Instability," 2008) reflects well on the leadership and coordination provided by MOH, with
the active support and encouragement of NGOs and key UN agencies. MOH leadership
displayed strong efforts to encourage health workers to be professional and avoid getting
drawn into the conflict. They successfully did so. The MOH is recognized as one of the
most effective ministries, both by civil society and by the international community. Its
response to the emergency has contributed to state, peace and nation building efforts.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

        No Beneficiary Survey conducted.
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

        The ICR team rates the risk to development outcomes as Moderate.                The
achievements of the sector are robust and the benefits gained from many elements of the
projects are institutionalized.   The system is forward-looking and will continue to be
supported by MOH with funding from the AusAID-World Bank financed project, the EC,
and UN agencies.




5.      Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance




                                              19

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

       The ICR team rates the Quality at Entry as Moderately Satisfactory. The project
team had a good skill mix. Mission members were knowledgeable on both the technical
issues and the on-ground situation in the health sector. The project design was appropriate
and grounded in technical, institutional, and social analyses. However, for reasons explained
elsewhere in this document, the project had an unrealistic implementation schedule (see also
Section 2.1). The requirements for preparing a full PAD despite Emergency Procedures
helped ensure due diligence. The strong element of the project was that it was part of a
sector-wide program conceived at the time of the HSRDP I, thereby ensuring a
comprehensive ongoing approach to sector development. The focus was on reconstruction
while at the same time helping Timor to develop a framework for longer-term health policy
and systems development; the sector-wide program focus also ensured donor coordination.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

       The ICR team rates the quality of supervision as Moderately Satisfactory.
Generally there were two supervision missions annually (sometimes 3), conducted jointly
with other donors ­ including EC, AusAID; the skill mix was adequate. Positive points and
shortcomings of supervision can be summarized as follow:

Positive Aspects:

    ·   Missions were effective in reviewing the sector development and project specific
        progress. The project team focused on looking at the sector as "an integrated
        whole".
    ·   The bi-annual Joint Donor Missions have been a good forum to monitor progress
        across the sector and to discuss and agree on strategic decisions on health issues.
    ·   Significant budget resources were allocated to Timor-Leste by the Bank to ensure
        systematic follow-up.
    ·   An extended-term consultant was hired in 2007 in the Bank's Dili Country Office
        responsible for health and education, to help provide more on-site guidance to
        counterparts. After the ICR mission a full-time ETC has been assigned to health.
    ·   There has been relatively good continuity in the team, both among Bank
        staff/consultants and the development partners (three Team Leaders since its
        inception).
    ·   The overall focus on micro issues, combined with analytical work conducted by the
        Bank and local counterparts, helped ensure that the sector performance continued to
        improve.
    ·   The focus on the PDOs and systematic reporting on indicators in Aide Memoires is
        exemplary.
    ·   Emphasis and support during missions to district health planners was effective.

In terms of less positive aspects:



                                              20

   ·   Aide Memoires were lengthy and because of the complexity of issues addressed, do
       not appear to have been "fully understood" by MOH's staff. While some Aide
       Memoires were presented together with short 2-3 summaries translated into Tetun,
       this should have been done routinely to ensure that main findings and
       recommendations were fully understood by management and staff.
   ·   The supervision process, including managers accepted that the overall IP and DOs be
       consistently rated Satisfactory. They were only downgraded to MS in late 2005,
       despite the fact that before 2005 there were serious delays with the construction
       program. Equally, despite serious procurement management issues, procurement
       continued to be rated Satisfactory until almost the end of project implementation.
   ·   Guidance on realistic implementation schedules, particularly for the construction of
       hospitals and on procurement of medical equipment could have been stronger.
       Supervision guidance should have emphasized the need to start procurement of
       medical equipment earlier.     An attempt could have been made to proceed with
       procurement processing much earlier, allowing for a phased-delivery of equipment
       once the construction was completed.
   ·   The lack of Mid-Term Review (MTR). No MTR was conducted despite the fact that
       this was a requirement under both the IDA and EC Grant Agreements. Although the
       task team at the time did not judge an MTR to be necessary, the review would have
       addressed emerging problems and provided an opportunity to update key performance
       indicators and targets.
   ·   Given the capacity constraints, establishing a stronger presence in the Bank's Dili
       Country Office ­ both in terms of sector specialists and operational/procurement
       support ­ could have provided better ongoing support and more timely resolution of
       implementation difficulties. While procurement is the responsibility of the client, the
       absence of a full-time sector specialist or procurement specialist in the World Bank
       Dili Country Office (a Procurement Specialist was posted to the Bank's Dili Office in
       the early stages of implementation of HSRDP I), was a constraint to the timely
       identification and resolution of the various problems that arose during this complex
       procurement process. While supervision missions routinely included a consultant
       architect to supervise civil works, in retrospect, a biomedical equipment specialist
       should similarly have participated in some supervision missions to be available to
       provide timely advice to the task team and MOH throughout the procurement cycle.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

       The ICR team rates the Overall bank Performance as Moderately Satisfactory for
reasons elaborated above.

5.2    Recipient Performance

(a)    Government Performance




                                              21

        The ICR team rates Government Performance as Moderately Satisfactory.              The
performance overall of DHS1/MOH in establishing a policy framework and re-establishing
services, has been acknowledged by the government and donors alike as strong.

        Recognizing the importance of re-establishing health services, MOF has increased
steadily its budget allocations to the health sector since 1999 (see also Section 2.2). Policy
development has progressed apace with a large number of policies and/or strategies
developed. Starting with the 2005/06 budget, MOH provided a detailed budget for each of
the 13 districts, replacing a consolidated estimate for all districts. Although improvements
are still necessary in this regard, this was the first step towards decentralized budget
preparation at the district level. It laid the groundwork for a more effective central-level
monitoring of each district's health activities and financial performance. Procurement of
medical equipment and shortcomings by MOH and MOF in acting upon agreements reached
on ways to resolve them delayed project implementation.              The performance of the
Government is rated MS, mainly because of the problems with procurement, especially the
procurement of medical equipment.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

        Moderately Satisfactory. While policy development was central to the overall re-
establishment of services, DHS1/MOH sought to prioritize policies and strategies rather than
just respond to the availability of donor-funded technical assistance. MOH and district health
management teams moved decisively to prepare district health plans and budgets,
experiencing initial teething problems as district offices became used to developing their own
proposals. Much effort was made to translate plans into action through reviews of district
health planning processes and outcomes and assessment of capacity development needs.
Despite some delays, MOH successfully implemented a complex construction program, but
the procurement of medical equipment, pharmaceuticals and supplies encountered greater
difficulties. Equally, MOH has had big challenges regarding the quality of data partially due
to the high turnover of technical assistance for HMIS. The Project Management Unit has
been over-stretched and has suffered from a high turnover of staff, especially for
procurement management, which has hindered its ability for timely procurement processes.
In addition, the progress with the institutionalization of SAMES, discussed in other parts of
this report, has been slower than expected.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

        The ICR rates Recipient Performance as Moderately Satisfactory. This rating reflects
the considerable problems encountered with procurement and overall operations of SAMES.

6.      Lessons learned can be categorized into the following major headings:

Coordination

    ·   Close coordination with development partners was critical. Complementary technical
        assistance provided by the EC was crucial to the development of the sector.



                                               22

    ·   The capacity to mobilize financial resources through one funding mechanism ensured
        good donor coordination and reduced transaction costs.

Government ownership and capacity development

    ·   The health strategy in Timor-Leste gives evidence of a balanced choice between
        visible results in terms of reconstruction and service delivery and the development of
        a customized policy framework and medium-term planning.
    ·   In the reconstruction phase, there must be a clear focus on the broader sector strategy.
        Because MOH and its development partners had sector development as the final
        objective, the actions taken during the reconstruction phase avoided harmful
        mistakes.
Implementation guidance by the Bank

    ·   Providing continuous guidance in the context of a limited institutional capacity is
        essential. The Bank should make all efforts to post the TL or a sector staff in the field
        to provide day-to-day guidance and help resolve bottlenecks. Bank supervision must
        be continuous and intensive. Adequate supervision resources must be allocated.
    ·   Aide memoires should be written keeping the audience in mind. In an institutionally-
        constrained environment, attempts should be made to simplify the Aide Memoires,
        addressing key issues and recommendations in an executive summary. Given the
        language constraints, Aide Memoires or at least the Executive Summary should be
        translated into Tetun and/or Portuguese.
    ·   There should have been a Mid-term evaluation by the World Bank, as Trustee, of the
        interim achievements with a view to addressing emerging problems.

Procurement Challenges

    ·   For planned civil works/medical equipment procurement, it is important to begin the
        process early, especially in small countries where competition and capacity is limited.
    ·   Given the complexities of procurement in the health sector and the weak institutional
        capacity, it is recommended that the Procurement Specialist be posted in the Country
        Office to help resolve day-to-day issues and help expedite procurement processes.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Recipient/implementing agencies

        See Annex 7 for Government's Contribution

(b)     Cofinanciers

        The ICR team held discussions with several development partners, including: (i) EC,
(ii) AusAID, (iii) WHO, and (iv) UNICEF. To the extent possible, their comments are
reflected in this document. The draft ICR was made available for comments from EC. EC's
comments were incorporated in the final version of the ICR.



                                               23

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders

      The ICR team met with International Health Alliance who from their perspective
confirmed the progress achieved in the health sector in Timor-Leste over the last 8 years.




                                             24

25

Annex 1.         Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                           Appraisal          Actual Estimate
                                                                                      Percentage of
            Components                  Estimate (USD          (USD millions)
                                                                                        Appraisal
                                           millions)
                                        TFET         EC       TFET        EC        TFET          EC
Support Ongoing Service
                                         3.52       5.21       3.70       5.10       105%        98%
Delivery
Improve range/quality of
services, and develop/implement          5.95      13.55       5.34      12.96        90%        96%
supporting systems
Develop and Implement health
Sector Policy and Management             2.73       1.60       3.54       1.47       130%        92%
Systems
               Total Baseline Cost      12.20      20.36       12.58     19.53      100%         96%
  Physical Contingencies                 0.40         -
  Price Contingencies                     -           -
                Total Project Costs     12.60      20.36       12.58     19.53      100%         96%
                  Total Financing       12.60     20.3613      12.58     19.53      100%         96%




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal         Actual
                                            Type of           Estimate        Estimate       Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing            (USD            (USD           Appraisal
                                                              millions)       millions)
Recipient                                                       0.00            2.0014      -
EC: European Commission                                         20.36           19.53              96%
Special Financing (TFET)                                        12.60           12.58             100%




13The PAD noted US$8.83 million equivalent as co-financing from the EC. However, by the time the EC
Grant Agreement was signed, the EC had increased its grant to US$20.36 million equivalent

14GoTL financed US$2 million of medical equipment and it contributed to rental of offices and salaries of staff,
which are significant considering that GoTL is financing accommodation of Cuban and other international
medical personnel.




                                                    26

(c) Project Cost by Category (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal         Actual
                                                                  Percentage of
           Categories            Estimate (USD    Disbursement
                                                                   Appraisal
                                    millions)     (USD millions)
                                 TFET      EC    TFET      EC    TFET     EC


(1) Consultant Services          6.12      0.46   7.47     0.32  122 %    70 %


(2) Goods                        2.50      7.22   1.80     5.25  72 %     73 %
(3) Training and fellowships     0.80      1.63   0.13     1.64  16 %    101 %
(4) Civil Works                  2.50      11.0   2.48    11.82  99 %    107 %
(5) Incremental Operating Costs  0.28      0.05   0.43     0.05  154 %   100 %
(6) Unallocated Funds            0.40               -
             Total Project Costs 12.60    20.36   12.6    19.53  100 %    96 %




                                          27

Annex 2.        Outputs by Component

           Component               Planned outputs at Appraisal            Actual outputs at ICR                         Comments

Component 1 - Supporting           Provision of technical assistance Technical assistance was provided     Initially, NGOs were contracted as
Ongoing Service Delivery           at the DHS1 and district levels   at the center and district levels to  service providers following the
                                   for: (i) HR management, (ii)      support all aspects of the project.   departure of Indonesian doctors. Later
(i) District Health Planning       district health management,       The project financed US$7.80          local staff under the guidance of district
                                   (iii) hospital management, and    million in technical assistance.      health advisors took over the
                                   (iv) assets management                                                  responsibility for district planning and
                                                                                                           management.
(ii) Service Delivery at District  (a) establishment of Timorese     (a) By end of 2001, DHMT were         Through a bilateral agreement between
level                              District Health Management        established in each of the 12         GoTL and Cuba, about 300 Cuban
                                   Teams (DHMT)                      districts (not including Dili, which  doctors have been working in Timor-
                                   (b) work with the community to    has always been treated separately)   Leste since 2006, and over 600
                                   establish mechanisms for          (b) Project-financed TA supported     Timorese have been sent for medical
                                   community participation           DHMTs in preparing district health    training in Cuba. While the availability
                                   (c) hiring of expatriate doctors  plans, which included some            of the Cuban doctors has increased
                                   (d) provision of selected high    community consultation. The 2006      human resource availability, it led to a
                                   priority services                 budget was decentralized to district  need to revisit the HRH strategy, and it
                                                                     level laying the groundwork for       also contributed to a significant increase
                                                                     more effective district planning.     in drug prescriptions and difficulties in
                                                                     MOH has piloted a community           projecting drug needs.
                                                                     Family Health Promoter program,
                                                                     which will be further strengthened
                                                                     and scaled up with support from
                                                                     HSSP-SP.
                                                                     (c) By the end of 2006, over 300
                                                                     additional doctors from Cuba had
                                                                     been recruited and 600 medical
                                                                     students were sent to Cuba for
                                                                     training.
                                                                     (d) strengthened planning and
                                                                     implementation at district level has


                                                                    28

                                                                     contributed to improved coverage
                                                                     of key services.
(iii) Pharmaceuticals               (a) provision of pharmaceuticals (a) TFET financed US$1.3 million     Continued high levels of drug stock
                                    for one year                     and the EC Grant financed US$5.5     outs due to continued procurement
                                                                     million for the provision of         difficulties at SAMES.
                                                                     pharmaceuticals and medical
                                                                     supplies. The project financed all
                                                                     ICB procurements of medical
                                                                     supplies from 2003-2007. Drug
                                                                     availability was clearly better than
                                                                     would have been without project,
                                                                     but fell short of 90% target.
(iv) Special Services               (a) support to immunization, the (a) All these areas were supported   Coverage of community health and
                                    national TB program, nutrition   by the project and their             nutrition services remains limited, and
                                    and health promotion             implementation coordinated with      will be scaled up with support from
                                                                     relevant UN agencies.                HSSP-SP.
(v) Basic Services                  (a) Maternal and child health    (a) These services have been
                                                                     supported through the project and
                                                                     implemented in collaboration with
                                                                     relevant UN agencies. All key
                                                                     MCH indicators have improved.
Component 2 - Improve Range         Strengthen:                      Range and quality of services have   Total fertility rates in Timor remain
and Quality of Services and         (a) health promotion activities  improved considerably since 1999.    among the highest in the world, an
Develop & Implement Support         (b) communicable disease         The project has provided technical   average of 7.1 children per mother.
Systems                             surveillance, and                assistance and extensive training in This contributes in turn to high maternal
                                    (c) reproductive health          a variety of areas to improve        and infant mortality.
(i) Improvement of quality of basic                                  technical and clinical skills.
health services                                                      Through both TA and training, the
                                                                     project supported health promotion,
                                                                     CD surveillance and reproductive
                                                                     health in close collaboration with
                                                                     UN agencies.
                                    (a) Strengthening of referral    (a) Legislation was enacted to       Good progress with respect to improved
                                    systems                          enable hospitals to become semi-     coverage for PHC, including ANC,
(ii) Hospital rationalization and   (b) Design and construction of   autonomous                           skilled deliveries, and immunization



                                                                    29

strengthening of referral system  four hospitals and other bedded    (b) Construction of the 4 regional    coverage.
                                  facilities as agreed by DHS1       hospitals supported by the Project
                                  (c) Equipping of hospitals         were completed albeit considerable
                                  (d) Establishment of a             delays. The project financed
                                  communications network             US$14.70 for civil works, including
                                  (e) Support for driving training   the construction of the hospitals and
                                  and vehicle maintenance            the Dili Lab.
                                                                     (c) There were significant delays in
                                                                     completing procurement procedures
                                                                     for medical equipment. The project
                                                                     financed US$0.6 million for
                                                                     medical equipment. In addition,
                                                                     US$2 million for medical
                                                                     equipment was financed by GOTL.
                                                                     (d) Communications network was
                                                                     established through the provision of  There is a lot of room for improvement
                                                                     radios for every Community Health     for vehicle maintenance.
                                                                     Center.
                                                                     (e) The project supported these
                                                                     activities; more work is needed.
(iii) Central Laboratory and      (a) rehabilitation of the Central  (a) The central lab was
Community Health Centers          Laboratory and Centro Clinic in    constructed/equipped albeit delays.
                                  Dili                               (b) Rehabilitation of the Centro
                                  (b) equipping of the Lab           Clinic took place under HSRDP I.
(iv) Autonomous Medical Supply    (a) Enactment of legislation to    (a) Legislation was enacted to        The sector has suffered from shortages
Entity (SAMES)                    establish SAMES as an              enable SAMES to become semi-          of essential drugs and continued
                                  autonomous entity.                 autonomous.                           problems in operation of SAMES.
                                  (b) Provision of TA to             (b) The project provided technical    Shortages of essential drugs and
                                  institutionalize SAMES.            assistance to improve the overall     continued problems in operation of
                                                                     operations of SAMES, including        SAMES have remained a major
                                                                     pharmaceuticals planning and          concern. Despite attempts to expedite
                                                                     medical supply systems. The           the procurement of emergency drugs,
                                                                     project financed US$7.80 million in   finalization of orders has been subject
                                                                     technical assistance to support all   to a myriad of delays and
                                                                     aspects of implementation,            miscommunication among SAMES,



                                                                    30

                                                                    including SAMES operations.            MOH, WB and suppliers.
(v) The Basis Package of Services Standardization and enhancement   (a) The BSP roll-out was piloted in
                                  of the Basic Service Package      Aileu District from September
                                  (BSP).                            2007. Several of the larger
                                                                    facilities are already totally BSP-
                                                                    compliant. Several districts are still
                                                                    partially complaint; the target date
                                                                    is 2010 for 100% BSP-compliance.
Component 3 -                     (a) Preparation of health policy  (a) The project has supported the      Consultation with stakeholders has been
Develop/Implement Health Sector   studies and consultations with    development of a number of policy      effective through a number of for a,
Policy and Management Systems     stakeholders.                     papers, including the Health Sector    including bi-annual Joint Health Sector
                                  (b) Conduct a Demographic and     Strategic Plan with support from       Reviews.
(i) Policy and Systems            Health Survey (DHS2).             EC-financed consultants and the
                                  (c) Development and               development of the MTEF.
                                  implementation of a Human         (b) DHS2 was conducted
                                  Resource Management Strategy.     (c) HR strategy was developed, but
                                                                    needs to be revisited in view of
                                                                    additional foreign doctors recruited
                                                                    and a great number of Timorese
                                                                    attending medical school in Cuba.
(ii) Management Systems           (a) Develop a Health and          (a) The HMIS was established and       WHO financed a consultant to work
                                  Management Information System     progressively there have been          with MOH since January 2007 to help
                                  (HMIS)                            improvements in the quality of data    "clean" the HMIS data for 2006 and to
                                  (b) Conduct data analysis for     entry/analysis and reporting.          improve the overall HMIS system. This
                                  planning and monitoring           (b) and (c) Timeliness, reliability    resulted in a downward revision of
                                  (c) Project Monitoring and        and use of data have been a            some indicators (notably outpatient
                                  Reporting                         constant challenge.                    attendance), but gives more confidence
                                  (d) Provision of fellowships and  (d) and (e) A great number of          on data for immunization coverage and
                                  study tours to managers of DHS1,  fellowships and other training have    skilled deliveries.
                                  health professionals and NGOs     been made available through the
                                  (e) Provision of fellowships to   TFET and EC Grants . The project
                                  medical students and health       financed US$1.98 million in
                                  professional to improve clinical  training activities. One hundred
                                  skills.                           and thirty seven (137) staff have
                                                                    received training: (i) 16 - post



                                                                   31

                                                                   graduate degrees, (ii) 87 medical
                                                                   undergraduate courses , (iii) 35
                                                                   general medicine, (iv) 11 specialist
                                                                   areas, (v) 41 public health, and (vi)
                                                                   7 courses on economics.
(iii) Health Program Management (a) Strengthening of the Unit      (a) The PMU was strengthened, and     Capacity building is a process that
Unit (PMU)                      through TA, equipment, furniture   is now being integrated into MOH      needs to continue with or without
                                and supplies.                      structures. However, the quality of   support from external funding.
                                (b) Capacity building for training the technical assistance has varied   The project has made great efforts in
                                of trainers.                       considerably. The project has         building considerable capacity for
                                (c) Development and                financed US$0.5 million for           planning, management, coordination,
                                implementation of a training       operating costs.                      and financial management. This
                                program for health system          (b) Efforts have been displayed to    capability is being utilized in the
                                trainers, DHS1/MOH managers,       improve capacity for training of      implementation of the new AusAID-
                                members of health professional     trainers. Support in this regard will WB-financed project and ultimately in
                                associations and health sector     continue through the new              the improvement of the government
                                NGOs.                              AusAID/WB-financed project.           system.
                                (d) Planning and design of a cost- (c) Training programs for health
                                effective health system including  system trainers have been
                                organization structure and         implemented, it will need continued
                                administrative procedures.         support.
                                                                   (d) The operations of a cost-
                                                                   effective system are a continuous
                                                                   effort.




                                                                  32

33

Annex 3.  Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                   34

35

Annex 4.       Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Joseph
                             Consultant                          EASHD
J. Capuno
David Michael Chandler        Sr. Financial Management Special    EAPCO Fin. Management
Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere         Consultant                           QAG    Operations
                                                                 EACDF-
Olivio Euclides Dos Santos    Program Assistant                           Operations
                                                                   DIV
Elke Frieda Ender             ETC Consultant                     EASHD Operations
                                                                 EACDF-
Joao Jose Augusto Gomes       Operations Officer                          Operations
                                                                   DIV
Stephen Paul Hartung          Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO Fin. Management
Bisma Husen                   Procurement Specialist              EAPCO Procurement
Magnus Lindelow               Senior Economist                   EASHD Economics
Rekha Menon                   Senior Economist                    ECSHD Economics
Janet Nassim                  Sr. Operations Off.                HDNHE Operations
Cristiano Costa e Silva Nunes Procurement Spec.                   EAPCO Procurement
                                                                          Hospital
Christopher Scarf             Consultant                         EASHD
                                                                          Management
Christopher James Smith       Consultant                         EASHD Implementation
Nigel William Wakeham         Consultant                          AFTH2 Architect
Rui Paulo de Jesus            E T Consultant                     EASHD
Ina da Silva dos Santos       Consultant                         EASHD
                                                                          Implementation
Betty Hanan                   Consultant                         EASHD
                                                                          Specialist
Peter Lafere                  Economist/Conflict Specialist       OPCFC ICR



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY01                                           13                         63.33
   FY02                                                                       0.86
   FY03                                                                       0.00
   FY04                                                                       0.00
   FY05                                                                       0.00



                                               36

 FY06                                 0.00
 FY07                                 0.00
 FY08                                 0.00

                   Total:     13     64.19
Supervision/ICR
 FY01                                 0.00
 FY02                          9     49.78
 FY03                          5     38.53
 FY04                          3     49.36
 FY05                          3     27.34
 FY06                          5     58.40
 FY07                         10     57.82
 FY08                          6     65.27
 FY09                          1      0.00

                   Total:     42    346.50




                             37

Annex 5.   Beneficiary Survey Results

     Not conducted




                                     38

39

Annex 6.    Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

     Not conducted




                                    40

41

Annex 7.         Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A.      Background information

        TFET implemented a two-phase program financed with TFET funds.                 The EC
contribution has been through a three-phase program estimated at U$$38 million since year
2000. The project was designed as the second phrase financing commencing in Feb. 2004
(EC) and 2002 (TFET) respectively.

        The health program was fully consistent with the objectives of the Transition
Strategy. The program's policy framework addressed two key cross-cutting issues of risk
pooling and cost containment by:

    (a) Supporting the continuing operation of secondary and tertiary care facilities which do
        not at present charge fees, and
    (b) Focusing on basic health care services that include health promotion and other
        components of the "best-buy" basic health service packages.

B.      Sector's priorities:

    ·   Restoration of primary health care services at the sub-district level.
    ·   Re-establishment of inpatient services
    ·   Re-establishment of a central health authority ­ MOH
    ·   Health manpower capacity building.

C.      Health service infrastructure in Timor-Leste

        Primary health care is the major focus of MOH and all other components of the health
systems are gear to support it. The family health promoter (FHP) is a community based
initiative implemented in 4 districts, supported by UNICEF, HAI and TAIS. It is to be rolled
out to all districts once the strategies are tested workable. Outside Dili, an estimated 30% of
the population lives beyond two (2) hours walk from health facilities. Currently, there are
four levels of health services, - Level 1 to Level 4.

Level 1 ­ Health Posts and Mobile clinics

        This the basic health services also entry point into the public health services, and
situated within sub-districts, serving 1,000 ­ 2,000 people. The services provided include
provided include curative consultation, antenatal and postnatal care, immunization, growth
monitoring, health education and health promotion activities. These facilities are plan within
4-8 km from the population. Health post provide link up to higher level of referral and
emergency services through radio communication systems.            The FPH program through
community committee.



                                                 42

        Mobile clinics are done at other sites (e.g. schools, markets, community structures), it
is an outreach services. Services are conducted by health post and health centre staff on a
routine schedule and budgeted basis. There are motorcycle mobile clinics and vehicle mobile
clinics.

Level 2 ­ Community health center (Sub-district centers)

        Located in every sub-district, a community health centre provides promotive,
preventive and curative services. These include external consultations supported with a
simple laboratory, maternity (including antenatal and postnatal care) to preventive (including
immunization) and promotive services.

        Sub-district health centers are usually situated at sub-district level and provide care
for 5,000 ­ 15,000 people. They house a wide range of staff (usually include a doctor) and
provide technical and managerial support to FHPs and health posts in the sub-districts. Sub-
district health centers provide a higher range of services than health posts, including basic
emergency obstetric care facilities, observation beds for 24 hours, basic laboratory,
pharmaceutical services, and regular outreach at health posts to provide clinical and
preventive services. The sub-district manager has the responsibility for coordinating all
services at health posts.

Level 3 ­ District facility

        District health centers (DHCs) are situated at the 5 districts that do not have a
hospital.
They serve the entire district and are responsible for providing outreach and referral services
to all facilities, and mobile services to remote areas.

        District facilities provide higher level of services than health posts, as well as
complicated curative cases requiring referral or inpatient treatment, beds, newborn
resuscitation using oxygen, eye care, disability services (with support from NGOS working
in the district), pharmacy, dental care, vehicle based mobile services to remote/rural areas,
laboratory services, including microscopy, HIV testing.

        These facilities are located in districts bordering Dili, like Aileu and Liquica. Atauro,
island in Dili also have an observation unit. Minor surgical procedures like stitching,
drainage of abscesses or any other surgical procedure not requiring general anesthesia are
available there. Other surgical cases requiring general anesthesia are referred to referral
hospitals, which are located within two hours' driving time.

Level 4 - Referral hospital

        These hospitals are the second level of referral and offer a comprehensive level of
services for patients referred in from the district Primary Health Care facilities.




                                                43

        The hospital services package supports and complements the BSP and provides
referral services as part of the overall continuum of care starting in the community. While all
referral hospitals provide similar services, there are slight variations in the scope governed by
the differences in size, scope and environment.

        These types of facility are available in Lautem, Viqueque, Manufahi, Ermera and
Manatuto Districts. Now with TFET funding, four referral hospitals were built ­ Maubisse,
Maliana, Oecussi and rehabilitation of GVNH, Dili Hospital. The procedures to be done at
referral hospitals depend to a large degree on the level of skill of the medical personnel and
equipment available. Where there are specialist surgeons, obstetricians or pediatricians,
more complex services can be provided and more responsibility can be taken at hospital
level.

        Referral hospital facilities include an inpatient department, with beds where medical
cases can be diagnosed, treated and referred to higher levels if needed. Complete laboratory
services and other diagnostic means are available.

GVNH National Hospital

        This hospital acts as the national referral hospital. It should attend only referral cases
from other hospitals or health centers. Currently, GVNH services ­ 80% of outpatient
services are primary health care. GVNH past statistics indicated it did not provide for
equipment maintenance routinely and the status of medical equipment was of poor quality.
The weakness on equipment, equipment maintenance were identified and measures were
taken with support from TFET and EC grants to provide medical equipment to the hospitals
including the hospitals at Maliana, Maubisse, Oecussi.

D.      Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:

    ·   Ensured that health system development is guided by clear policy.
    ·   Ensured that the medium-term health expenditure program is financially and
        institutionally sustainable, including development and implementation of a program
        to rehabilitate the hospital sector that meets core health needs.
    ·   Ensure public expenditure on health are targeted to:

        (i) improved access to the poor particularly rural areas.
        (ii) health services which have strong "public good" and "high positive externalities".

    ·   Instituted mechanisms for community participation in the choices about their health
        care and information.
    ·   Assisted in the creation of capacity to maintain oversight over policies in other
        sectors that affect health outcomes.
    ·   Continuous support for SAMES, responsible to government, but run on commercial
        lines by non ­ government employees.
    ·   Supported the continuation of the Sector Wide Approach.
    ·   Specialized support to district health management and service delivery.



                                                 44

E.     Project Components

       Component 1: Support on-going service delivery

       The component supported a continued service delivery through the provision of
technical assistance to the new district health management teams, provision of
pharmaceuticals to health facilities, including hospitals.

       For two consecutive years (FY 04 and FY05), all health facilities of the country were
supplied with good quality essentials pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, in order to
ensure delivery of a Basic Health Package.

Supply of good quality essentials pharmaceuticals and medical supplies:

    (a) Supply of pharmaceuticals:

   TF-51363 disbursed a total of US$ 1,766,499 during the period 7.1.2004 to 30.06.2005
   TF-51363 disbursed a total of US$ 596,044 during the period 1.07.2005 to 30.06.2006
   TF- 51363 disbursed a total of US$ 418,859 during the period 1.07.2006 to 30.06.2007
   TF-51363 disbursed a total of US$ 2,723,863 during the period 1/7/2007 to 30.08.2008

       Total disbursed US$ 5,505,265 from 2004 to 30.08.2008 funded by TF-51363

       TF-29888 disbursed US$ 1,272,718 for procurement of pharmaceutical during the
period 06.2003 to 06.2004.

       Total fund disbursed from TF-29888 for drugs was US$ 1,272,718.

       Operational procedures - SAMES

       The grants provided technical assistance for SAMES, which have contributed to the
development of the following organizational capacity:

   ·   SAMES had taken over the responsibilities of pharmaceuticals procurement starting
       at the end of 2005. Health commodities information system (WMS) was installed,
       improved and or modified into a web based window, which allows easy modification
       and problem fixing by a remote technical centre (Broadline Company). The system
       has improved stock management and allows a proactive replenishment of stocks.
       The system integrates procurement and asset management and allows adjustments to
       correct data if required.
   ·   The verification of incoming goods has been improved with direct observation of all
       goods. Consultation with necessary officers/Technical Assistance was done
       immediately and any problem identified are reported and communicated to senior
       management and when necessary to suppliers.




                                               45

   ·    SAMES has gradually taken the responsibility of financial reporting and
        management.      It is managing its operational funds from year 2006. In the last
        quarter of 2007, SAMES started to receive funds directly from GoTL for the
        procurement of pharmaceuticals.
   ·     SAMES has developed an Accounting Manual and is using MYOB accounting
        software.

Challenges:

   ·    Planning ­ longer term planning is lacking, no PSM plan, no figures on estimated
        annual budget for replenishing all stock items, when and how often to procure,
        funding of the plan, communication and coordination with donors. SAMES is now
        addressing these matters.
   ·    Long lead times ­ this significantly affects the ability of SAMES/MoH to respond to
        routine as well as urgent requirements. The bureaucratic procedures for placing and
        receiving orders are long and often delayed. This is a major cause of stock-outs at
        SAMES.
   ·    Inadequate use of the Standard Treatment Guidelines and Essential Drugs List
        (STG and EML) ­ unwillingness and or ignorance of the clinician to adhere to STG
        and EDL has resulted into duplication of dosage forms for the same product and
        unnecessary requisition of products that are not in line with the STG/EDL.
   ·    Poor quality of data form health facilities ­ difficulties in health commodities
        record keeping of consumption data resulting into inability of health facility store
        keepers to correctly estimate requirements.
   ·    Slow customs clearance ­ customs clearance delays have an additional impact on
        the products availability, which in turn affects the whole procurement cycle and
        efforts to prevent stock-outs.
   ·    Information system ­ more requires to be done for SAMES to inform its customers.
        The integration of Warehouse and Accounting system is being contemplated.
   ·    Limited warehousing storage capacity. There is congestion of health commodities
        due to lack of storage space, however efforts are being undertaken to address the
        problem.
   ·    Inadequate health commodities distribution facility. SAMES has got one old
        truck, however efforts have been undertaken to address this problem.
   ·    Lack of quality testing facilities.
   ·    Lack of Computer technical personnel at SAMES. Although great strides have
        been made in the training of the staff, in the use of important programs, i.e. word,
        excel, spreadsheet, and database, more needs to be done.
   ·    Delay in payments due to unavailability of funds resulting in delays in deliveries

       The grants have provided good quality essential pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies. SAMES has received a total amount of US$ 6,777,983 for pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies from the two grants. The number of facilities that SAMES had provided
services had increased by about 64% from year 2005 (261) to year 2006 (428).




                                             46

        Components 2: Improve the range and quality of services, and develop and
implement supporting systems

        The component supported improvements in the quality of services with particular
emphasis on standardizing and enhancing the quality of delivery of the basic package of
services, including reproductive health, and strengthening referral systems through the
rehabilitation of four hospitals.

Main Component Outputs:

    ·   Output ­ Up to six "hospital" units constructed/rehabilitated and equipped of which 1
        or 2 will provide elective surgical care, while 4 to 5 were to provide emergency
        surgery only.

    ·   Operation's design and implementation. The activities financed under the Trust
        Fund for the "European Community Health Program for Timor-Leste is an integral
        part of Timor-Leste's Health Sector Rehabilitation and Development Program.

        The specific objectives of the European Communities (EC) contribution were to:

    1. To co-fund the infrastructure/referral system components.
    2. To fund the supply of quality pharmaceuticals and medical supplies through SAMES.
    3. To fund a substantial part of the Training program.

        The hospitals construction expenditure was the largest component of the project.
Construction of 4 hospitals ­ Dili GVNH, Maliana, Oecussi, Maubisse, and the Central
Laboratory in Dili.

Construction Status

1.    Central laboratory Dili

        Construction started on 1 September 2005, contractor was given an extension of 35
days due to site access problem due to IDPs. Phrase 1 (Main laboratory building and the
visitor's area) completed on October 20, 2007; handed over in November 2007.             The
laboratory has been fitted out by St John of God and is now in operation. Phase 2 ­ is
completed and handed over. The EC Grant funded 100% on the project cost.

2.    GVNH Hospital Dili

        Final phase of the Project was completed in the 1st week August 2008 and handed
over to hospital authority. Population at Dili (District) ­ latest data 240,521.

        MOH budget for Dili hospital for Fiscal Year 08 at US$ 2,610,000 and (09) US$
1,782,719.




                                               47

        The EC Grant financed US$2.5 million of Phase 3.

3.    Oecusse Hospital

        Building started on 9 December 2005 and practical completion on 5 October 2007.
The population at Oecusse - latest data 68,639 population.

        MOH budget for Oecusse hospital for Fiscal Year (08) US$ 729,000 and (09) at US$
643,190.

4.    Maliana Hospital

        Construction work started on 8 November 2005 and completed on 20 October 2007.
Supervision and monitoring of defective liability is on going.

        Population at Maliana (latest data) - 164,828
MOH budget at Maliana district for Fiscal Year (08) USD 631,000 and (09) USD 883,893

5.    Maubisse Hospital

        Construction work started on 11 January 2006 and completed on 10 October 2007.
Supervision and monitoring of defective liability is on going. Population at Maubisse - latest
data 163,639.

        MOH budget at Maubisse for Fiscal Year (08)USD 772,000 and (09) USD 807,900.

        The construction of referral hospitals for Maliana, Oecussi, Maubisee took place
during the Timor-Leste 2006 crisis period. The construction started on 8th November 2005.
At the time, the Project management Unit was operated by a skeleton dedicated staff,
coordinating, directing, supervising the project under unstable political environment. The
project was granted an extension and practical completion on 20 October 2007, 12 months
later than the original plan completion date (i.e. 7 August 2006)

        TFET and EC grants components on construction enabled the districts' population at
Oecussi, Maliana, Maubissee, access to Level 4 referral hospital and better quality of
services.

        The TFET and EC grants to rehabilitate GVNH and the central laboratory provided
the opportunity to best cater for the needs of RDTL in the capital city, Dili. Besides TFET
and EC grants support, GVNH also received grants, contributions in-kind, and other
technical assistance from other external donors. This support enabled GVNH to provide
improved health services. The grants enabled Level 4 infrastructure catering health access
for the population at the district level.




                                               48

Supply of goods ­ Hospital equipments ­ US$ 559,960.41

       RFQ goods procured funded jointly by TF-51363 and TF-29888 in the composition
82%:18%.

Medical Equipment for Referral Hospitals:

       RFQ06D-K and ICB 06B (Oceano Pty. Global Holdings, Abbot Diagnostics/Bes
Technology. Contract and An Hui Co.) amounting to US$ 559,960.59 was delivered by the
suppliers and eventually delivered to the hospitals namely: Guido Valadares National
Hospital, Oecussi Referral Hospital, Maliana and Maubisse.

   Exceptional events: on contract arrangement during grant closure in July 2008:

   ·   ICB 06A, 06B & 06C amounting to $2,074,033.20 has been processed for
       procurement funded by the Government. CPV (CFET) No. 8PR 992792 amounting to
       US$2,1 million - approved September 5, 2008.
   ·   Central Procurement administered all the documentation and contract preparations
       with the assistance of Procurement Assistant in PMU. Contracts were signed with six
       suppliers; equipment was delivered at the end of 2008.

Operation experience and lesson learned (Medical equipment)

   ·   There is significant level of government commitment in ensuring the hospitals are
       properly equipped with necessary hospital equipments. The needs are still huge and
       current fiscal year 2009 budget, donors from UNFPA and RACs have express their
       interest in contributing medical equipments for CHCs and district health services,
       trying to address the gaps.

   ·   There is a need for fast respond rate, tight monitoring on project progress to ensure all
       supplies are delivered on time, payment disbursed before grant closure dateline.

   ·   Timor-Leste is a new nation, it is recovering from post-war and conflict. From 1999
       to today, the government is in the process to improve/upgrade/restore the country's
       infrastructure, energy, agriculture sector, education and health services.

Health service coverage

       MOH has developed a Basic Service Package (BSP) that consist of basic reasonable
range of appropriate services and programmes for inpatients and to individuals and
communities on an outreach basis via mobile clinics;

       Most recently, through a locally-generated and centrally-supported health promoter
programme, BSP is scheduled to be rolled out in 2008 (a process that is scheduled to




                                               49

conclude at the end of 2010). BSP also set out MDG goals to attain at the target time-line;
BSP goal is based on good practice to reduce mortality and morbidity.
        Several of the larger facilities are already totally BSP-compliant, with capacity to
target the major priority areas of maternal and child health (through neonatal care, IMCI,
immunization, skilled birth attendance and basic emergency obstetric care, STI, and
tuberculosis). Many of the districts are still partially compliant. The BSP coverage target
date is 2010 for 100% health care facilities access.

Components of BSP:

      · Child Health ­ (MDG 4)
      · Maternal Health ­ (MDG 5)
      · Communicable Diseases ­ (MDG 6)
      · Non communicable diseases (Non MDG)
      · Health promotion
      · Environment Health
      · Management and infra-structure

MOH Finance expenditure at DHS level (consolidating figures )



                        2008-DHS   2008-total             2009-DHS   2009-total

         Salaries         3187000 5854000             54.4 4933634      10011315    49.3

         Goods and        4935000 18653000            26.5 5937123      18354087    32.3
         services

         Operational      1529000 5072000                   2516225
         Material and                                                   55,42,427
         supplies

         Minor Capital     681000 3524000             19.3   971785       1322404   73.5

         Capital           971000 2768000             35.1 2065000        2065000   100.0
         development


         Total            9774000 30799000            31.7 13907542     31752806    43.8




                          9774000 30799000                13907542      31752806




         Operational %of       31.0        27.2                  42.4          30.2
         salaries and
         goods
                                  ExpenditureonDHS as %of total
                                             expenditure




MOH Finance expenditure at DHS level (consolidated figures)

        Among the goods and services of US$ 1,865,300 for the year 2008, TFET and EC
drug procurement contributed a certain percentage in the form of medicine, drugs available to
DHS and the entire Health structure.                      SAMES drug distribution statistics provide the
percentage supported by TFET and EC contributions.


                                                              50

Lesson learned and difficulties encountered (BSP)

       SAMES reported difficulties in obtaining drug distribution data from the MOH
systems. Information cycle and data collection are weak

       There is a great need for MOH to report its commodities and drugs procurement,
usage report per cost centers. These commodities utilized would need to be supported by
medical statistics to improve health performance. Reports on drug provided and funding
sources per district levels and from donor sources are not easily accessible, retrievable.

       Components 3: Develop and Implement Health Sector Policy and Management
Systems

       Health policy development included: (i) conducting a Demographic and Health
Survey (DHS) to provide information on which to base policy; and (ii) assistance to capacity
development in the formulation and promulgation of policy, and its implementation. An
important sub-component supported the development of a Human Resource Management
Strategy, which included training and all other aspects of human resources management.

Components 3 ­ Training expenditure

       EC contribution supported greatly needed training in all aspects of health care
delivery, systems and policy development, and in management. The first priority was the
development of a program that approached training within the framework of manpower
development appropriate to the needs and resources of the country.

       Scholarship and fellowships have allowed for: (a) short term training abroad to update
and extend clinical skills and management competence, and (b) longer term training for
doctors, generally for students, who have had their training disrupted. Training programs
also catered for maintenance of new machines and instruments.

       A total of US$ 1,770,732 was spent on training funded by TF-51363.

Operation results:

       A total number of 137 students were sent abroad, 103 students completed their studies
with 34 numbers on going in their courses, a brief summary as below :




                                              51

                                             Total numbers
Description of courses            Total numbersCompleted On going
General Medicine                            35         25             10
Public Health                               41         41             0
Master Public Health                        16           7            9
Radiographer                                 5           2            3
Nurse                                        1           1            0
Midwife                                      1           1            0
Economic degrec                              7           7            0
Doctor specialist                           11           7            4
Electro Medic                                6           6            0
Physioterapy                                 3           3            0
Anatesdic Nurse                              3           3            0
Laboratory                                   5           0            5
Others                                       3           0            3


Total numbers supported                    137         103            34



Results 3 ­ Health Sector Policy and Management Systems developed.

Operation results

       Training components funded by TF-51363:

       137 numbers of people trained, with 16 undertaking master studies, 87 pursuing
medical undergraduate courses with 35 on general medicines, 11 in specialist areas, 41 on
public health, 7 pursuing economic courses.

Output ­ 103 health staff trained and more than 15 scholarships funded.

       The students, who completed the studies and are currently working in hospitals and
health care systems is summarized as follows:

   ·   General Medicine ­ 35 students serving in Dili Hospital.
   ·   Public Health ­ 41 students, 2 per each of the 13 districts, remaining in Dili Hospitals.
   ·   Midwife ­ 1 serving at Dili Hospital.
   ·   Radiographer ­ one for each in Bacau, Saui districts, remaining numbers at Dili
       Hospital. Now only two remain to graduate.
   ·   Specialist doctors ­ 7 all at Dili Hospital
   ·   Electro Medic ­ 1 at Bacau, 1 at Suai, 4 at Dili
   ·   Laboratory ­ all 5 undergoing studies.




                                               52

Management Systems:

        The PMU has administered the project funding since HSSP I.          The PMU has
experienced many challenges working in an unstable political environment during the 2006-
2007 crisis and functioning with inadequate staffing and a manual system environment.

        The current financial management system is manual, working on excel worksheet on
all data. The PMU uses Free balances for project expenditures from 2003 until June 2007.
There was some system problem with Treasury and access at MOH for Project finance to
free balance was not available. The previous Finance Advisor ­ served for four (4) years and
left in January 2008. The finance administration, including payment, replenishment and
financial management reporting to the World Bank was managed by the Assistant
Accountant since July 2007 until now. Staff are working single-handedly for all functions
including replenishment procedures.

F.      Ratings

        Recipient:

            ·  At design ­ Satisfactory
            ·  During Implementation ­ Satisfactory

        Bank:

            ·  At design ­ Satisfactory
            ·  During Implementation ­ Satisfactory




                                             53

Annex 8.      Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

       The following is a summary of comments received from MOH during the ICR
mission. Several of these are consistent with findings of the ICR team:

   ·  HSRDP II components and sub-components were a natural progression of issues
      addressed under HSRDP I, but a 27-month implementation period was too short,
      especially considering the reconstruction of 4 hospitals.
   ·  World Bank procurement requirements and timeliness of replies sometimes caused
      delays in procurement processes.
   ·  High turnover of technical assistance hindered timely implementation of some
      activities, including procurement and information systems.
   ·  The whole rehabilitation process has been carried out in the context of rationalization.
   ·  Development of policies and strategies created an environment within the Ministry
      where MOH was keen to reflect on them avoiding ad-hoc decisions.
   ·  The length of Aide Memoires and complexity of issues addressed has not resulted in
      staff being able to benefit fully from findings and recommendations.




                                              54

55

Annex 9.    List of Supporting Documents

  ·  Project Appraisal Document
  ·  Trust Fund for Timor-Leste Grant Agreement ­ TF-29888
  ·  EC Grant Agreement ­ TF-51363
  ·  Amendments to Grant Agreements
  ·  Aide Memoires
  ·  Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs)
  ·  Progress Reports
  ·  ICR for HSRDP I
  ·  "Rehabilitating the health system after conflict in Timor-Leste: a shift from NGO to
     government leadership" ­ article published by Oxford University Press in 2006
  ·  Interim Evaluation of the Trust Fund for Timor-Leste (TFET) ­ 2004
  ·  Mid-Term Evaluation of the EC Grant ­ TF-51363
  ·  "Health sector Resilience and Performance in Times of Instability," School of Public
     health and community Medicine (Australia) and Menzies School of Health Research
     (financed by AusAID)
  ·  Timor-Leste Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), 2003.
  ·  "Timor-Leste Standards of Living Survey (TLSLS)," 2001 and 2007, Timor-Leste
     Directorate of National Statistics (DNE), World Bank, UNICEF.
  ·  UNICEF, "Timor-Leste Multicluster Indicator Survey" (MICS), 2002.
  ·  Consultants reports following field visits




                                           56

57

                    124°                                              125°                                                                                   126°                                                                127°



                                                                                                                                                                                Wetar
                                                                                                                                                                                Island
                                                                           I N D O N E S I A

             10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Romang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Island
                                        TIMOR-
                                         LESTE                                                              Atauro
                                                                                                             Island           Biquele                                                   t
                                                         Alor                                                                                                               t  r a  i
                                                                                                                           Atauro                                       S
                                                        Island                                               Berau
                                                                                                                                             W      e  t     a  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cape Tei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lautém           Com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tutuala
                         Rantar                                                                                                                                                                               Laivai           Maínal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Maínal                   Cape Cutchá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jaco
                         Island                                                                                                                                                                    Baucau
                                                                                                                                                                                  Bucóli                                            Fuiloro
                                                                                                                                                                 Manatuto                                                                                   Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Los Palos
                                                                                                                  DILI      Metinaro                                                         SeicalBAUCAULaga
                                                                                                                                                                               Vermasse
                                                                                                                                                                               er
                                                                                         Liquiça                              DILI               Lacló
                                                                                                                                                 Lacló              Laleia                                             Luro    LAUTEM
                                                                              Maubara
                                                                          Cape                         Bazartete                                                                 Venilale
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Quelicai
                                                                      Corimbala       LIQUIÇA
                                                                                      LIQUIÇA                                                                                                                  Baquia
                                                                                                             Railaco   AILEU                   Laclo MANATUTO                                                  Uato Carabau           Loré

                                                                                              Ermera                                                                                                                                Cape de Loré
                                                                                                                                                                                         Ossu                            Iliomar
                                                                                    Fatu Beso                                                 Laclubar
                          Savu           Sea                                                                           Aileu                                            Lacluta
                                                                                                                                                                                             Uatolari
                                                                                   Atabae   ERMERALetetoho                                                                    VIQUEQUE
                                                                                                                                     Turiscai                                                             Aliambata
                                                                                                                          Maubisse                                                       Viqueque
                                                                         BOBONARO             Tata Mai Lau
                                                                                                   (2963 m)        Hato Builico                         Sahen       Barique


                                                              Batugade                                                                                                                              Bé Aco
                                                                                     Maliana                                 MANUFAHI                CFato   Berliu                             Cape Deilubún
             9°                                                                                                    Ainaro
                                                                                             Bobonaro                            Same                 iere         Umaboco                                                                                       9°
                                                                                                                                     Alas

                                                                            a     n    d                AINARO
                                                                                                           Mape

                                               Sacato                                                                  Hatudo
                                 Oecussi                          I  s   l
                                                                                             Loloto
                                                                        Fatolulic                                                     Betano
                                                                                                                              Cape
                                                                          COVA LIMA                                          Calétec
                                OECUSSI                     r                   Fohorem
                     Kitrana   Nítibe
                               Nítibe   Oé Silo
                                        Oé               o                                   Suai
                                                       m                    Tilomar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 127°

                               Passabe                i                               Cape Tafara
                                                     T
               To
             Naikliu                                                                                                                      Timor                      Sea                                         TIMOR-LESTE
                              I N D O N E S I A

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                                                        0     10       20      30 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                        0           10           20             30 Miles                                                                                     RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     8°
JANUAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS                            IBRD
              To                                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
             Kuala                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
            Lumpur                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                     33496
      Y
       2005                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                    124°                                              125°                                                                                   126°

