                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001378



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-40750 TF-54739 TF-54997)



                                       ON A

                                  CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.4 MILLION
                       (US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      AND A

                 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

                                      FOR A

                      RURAL ENVIRONMENT PROJECT

                                 June 28, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective March 8, 2010)

                 Currency Unit = Manat
                 Manat 1.00 = US$ 1.24
                 US$ 1.00 = Manat 0.81

                    FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 ­ December 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AREP                    Azerbaijan Rural Environment Project
ARPF                    Access Restriction Process Framework
BAT                     Business Advisory Teams
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CPS                     Country Partnership Strategy
CENN                    Caucasus Environmental NGO Network
EIA                     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                     Environmental Management Plan
GEF                     Global Environment Facility
GEO                     Global Environment Objective
ha                      Hectare
IUCN                    The World Conservation Union
MOA                     Ministry of Agriculture
MENR                    Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources
NEAP                    National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                     Non-governmental organization
NP                      National Park
NSAPBC                  National Strategy and Action Plan on Biodiversity
                        Conservation
ONP                     Ordubad National Park
PA                      Protected Area
PAD                     Project Appraisal Document
PDO                     Project Development Objective
PHRD                    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
                        Fund
PIM                     Project Implementation Manual
PIU                     Project Implementation Unit
PCU                     Project Coordination Unit (field branch of PIU)
SDNP                    Shah Dag National Park
SCLU                    State Committee on Land Use and Cartography
VC                      Village Cluster
                     Philippe H. Le
   Vice President:
                     Houerou
Country Director: Asad Alam
 Sector Manager: John Kellenberg
    Project Team
                 Doina Petrescu
         Leader:
ICR Team Leader: Tijen Arin
                                                     COUNTRY
                                                    Project Name




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design ............. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environmet Outcome .. 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 15
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 17
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 17
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 23
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Rural Environment
Country:               Azerbaijan               Project Name:
                                                                       Project
                                                                       IDA-40750,TF-
Project ID:            P066199,P077031          L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       54739,TF-54997
ICR Date:              06/30/2010               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       AZERBAIJAN
Lending Instrument:    SIL,SIL                  Borrower:
                                                                       REPUBLIC
Original Total
                       XDR 5.4M,USD 5.0M Disbursed Amount:             XDR 0.1M,USD 0.9M
Commitment:


Environmental Category: B,B                     Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates
Rural Environment Project - P066199
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process        Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/10/2001     Effectiveness:          12/19/2006       12/19/2006
Appraisal:            03/01/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/09/2005     Mid-term Review:        12/01/2008       10/06/2009
                                     Closing:                12/31/2009       12/31/2009

Rural Environment GEF Project - P077031
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process        Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/10/2001     Effectiveness:          01/31/2007       12/19/2006
Appraisal:            03/01/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/09/2005     Mid-term Review:        12/01/2008       10/06/2009
                                     Closing:                12/31/2009       12/31/2009




C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                        Unsatisfactory
GEO Outcomes                                    Unsatisfactory



                                                i
Risk to Development Outcome                   High
Risk to GEO Outcome                           High
Bank Performance                              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry          Unsatisfactory   Government:                    Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Unsatisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                          Unsatisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
Performance                                Performance


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Rural Environment Project - P066199
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                     Rating:
       Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
                                Yes                                          None
  at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                                Yes                                          None
      time (Yes/No):                         Supervision (QSA)
     DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
 Closing/Inactive status

Rural Environment GEF Project - P077031
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
                           Indicators                                       Rating:
      Performance                                      (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                              Yes                                            None
 at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                              Yes                                            None
     time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA)
   GEO rating before       Moderately
 Closing/Inactive Status  Unsatisfactory




D. Sector and Theme Codes
Rural Environment Project - P066199
                                                               Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                15                 15
Crops                                                             5                 5


                                             ii
Forestry                                                    20               20
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector            50               50
General industry and trade sector                           10               10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                 29              29
Environmental policies and institutions                      14              14
Other environment and natural resources management           29              29
Rural non-farm income generation                             14              14
Small and medium enterprise support                          14              14

Rural Environment GEF Project - P077031
                                                          Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                           15               15
Crops                                                        5                   5
Forestry                                                    20               20
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector            50               50
General industry and trade sector                           10               10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                 29              29
Environmental policies and institutions                      14              14
Other environment and natural resources management           29              29
Rural non-farm income generation                             14              14
Small and medium enterprise support                          14              14




E. Bank Staff
Rural Environment Project - P066199
        Positions                  At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou             Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:     Asad Alam                          D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:       John V. Kellenberg                 Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader:  Doina Petrescu                     Agnes I. Kiss
ICR Team Leader:      Tijen Arin
ICR Primary Author:   Tijen Arin




                                                   iii
Rural Environment GEF Project - P077031
        Positions                 At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:      Philippe H. Le Houerou                   Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:    Asad Alam                                D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:      John V. Kellenberg                       Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader: Doina Petrescu                           Agnes I. Kiss
ICR Team Leader:     Tijen Arin
ICR Primary Author:  Tijen Arin




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to improve biodiversity conservation and
introduce more sustainable natural resource management and economic activities in two
mountainous areas of Azerbaijan, to restore the ecological health and productivity of their
natural forests and pastures.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The DO was not revised.

Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To protect biodiversity in two globally significant biodiversity areas within the Caucasus
and Zangezur mountains, and introduce and pilot an ecosystem-based approach for
Protected Area management in Azerbaijan.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The GEO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values         Target Years
                Adoption of more modern, productive and sustainable livestock husbandry
Indicator 1 :
                practices by at least 20% of households in participat ing villages.
Value
(quantitative or 0%                       20%                                0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/12/2005                  12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iv
(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                 Establishment of SDNP and enlargement of ONP as indicated in the Project
Indicator 1 :
                 documents.
                                            Legal instrument                   Legal instrument
Value            No legal instrument for
                                            for SDNP issued.                   for SDNP issued.
(quantitative or SDNP.
                                            ONP area:                          ONP area:
Qualitative)     ONP area: 15,431ha
                                            43,300ha                           43,300ha
Date achieved 05/12/2009                    12/31/2005                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %         100% achievement
achievement)
                 Development and initial implementation of zoning and management plans for
Indicator 2 :
                 SDNP and ONP, following a participatory process.
Value            No zoning and              Zoning and                         Draft zoning and
(quantitative or management plans           management plans                   management plans
Qualitative)     available.                 complete.                          prepared.
Date achieved 05/12/2005                    12/31/2007                         12/31/2009
Comments
                 The PIU reports that Consultants tasked with the development of these plans
(incl. %
                 submitted final versions, but they were not shar ed with the Bank.
achievement)
                 Midterm and end-of-project surveys indicate significantly increased awareness
                 and understanding of, and support for, national parks and other protected areas
Indicator 3 :
                 (and more broadly, for environmentally sustainable development and natural
                 resource management)
Value
(quantitative or NA                         NA                                 NA
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/12/2005                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2009
Comments         Social surveys which were to define baseline and target values, and to gauge
(incl. %         progress were not carried out. 0% achievement l ikely due to local communities'
achievement) raised but unfulfilled expectations.


(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                  approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                         Target Years
                150 or more environmentally friendly, financially sound, small/medium
Indicator 1 :   enterprises identified, initiated and publicized (all o r most receiving small grants
                from the project as part of their overall financing package)



                                                 v
Value
(quantitative or   0                        150                              0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/12/2005               12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
                   20% achievement. Investment plans were not prepared in time for funding before
(incl. %
                   project closure, but may be used in other inv estment schemes.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 -
                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR                                                             Disbursements
 No.                            DO           GEO                IP            (USD millions)
         Archived
                                                                            Project 1 Project 2
     1   07/29/2005             S              S                 S             0.00       0.00
     2   08/03/2006             MS            MS                MS             0.00       0.00
     3   11/15/2006             MS            MS                MS             0.00       0.00
     4   04/18/2007             MU            MU                MU               0.40     0.25
     5   11/19/2007             MU            MU                MU               0.40     0.25
     6   01/25/2008             MU            MU                MU               0.40     0.25
     7   09/24/2008             MU            MU                MU               0.44     0.31
     8   01/23/2009             U              U                 U             0.46       0.54
     9   06/30/2009             MU            MU                MS               0.46     0.61
 10      11/13/2009             U             MU                 U             0.46       0.65




H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                   vi
I. Disbursement Profile
P066199




P077031




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and sector background. Azerbaijan has high biodiversity, located at the convergence of
three bio-geographic regions (Europe, Central Asia, and Asia Minor). The Greater Caucasus
Mountain range, which encompasses the Shah Dag National Park (SDNP), and the Lesser
Caucasus, which includes the Ordubad National Park (ONP) in the Nakhchivan Autonomous
Republic, were identified among five highest priority biodiversity corridors for conservation in
the Caucasus region in an assessment by the Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund. Deforestation
and overgrazing, both linked to increased poverty, were key direct threats to biodiversity in these
areas.
As indicated in the Project Appraisal Document, although Azerbaijan's overall economy was
improving due to oil sector development, most mountain inhabitants still fell under the poverty
line of US$24 per month. When independence ended the reliable supply of highly subsidized gas
and electricity, many rural households began harvesting wood fuel from State forests for their
energy needs, causing rapid deforestation. Demand exceeded sustainable annual fuel wood yields,
by a factor of ten in some areas. In addition, the State leased most high-elevation summer
pastures and mid-elevation winter pastures to herd owners on 10-15 year contracts; these pastures
were often overexploited by excessive stocking rates. In the Shah Dag area, high-elevation
pastures harbored significant biodiversity, but stocking rates were as much as five times higher
than official norms--grazing some 2.5 million animals, rather than 500,000.
Rationale for Bank assistance. In keeping with the 1998 National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP), the Bank strategy for assistance to Azerbaijan in the environment sector had two main
pillars: (i) managing environmental challenges connected with oil industry development, and
broader economic development, especially in coastal areas; and (ii) addressing sustainable natural
resource management within the context of rural development and conservation of Azerbaijan's
key ecosystems. The Azerbaijan Urgent Environmental Investment Project and the regional
Caspian Environment Program focused on the first aspect, and supported institutional
strengthening for environmental management, including establishing the Ministry of Ecology and
Natural Resources (MENR). The Azerbaijan Rural Environment Project (AREP) aimed to
continue this institutional support by helping MENR develop capacity for forest, pasture, and
protected area (PA) management, including adopting a participatory, multi-zone approach. Under
AREP, Azerbaijan received substantial Bank knowledge and experience on protecting and
managing mountain forest and pasture ecosystems across Europe and Central Asia and elsewhere.
The Bank was able to blend the GEF grant for biodiversity conservation into a larger operation
for environmentally sustainable rural development in Project areas, co-financed by International
Development Association (IDA) credits, and Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
(PHRD) Fund.
Contribution to higher-level objectives. NEAP priorities included protecting biodiversity,
improving forest, pasture, and agricultural land management, and addressing ecological problems
that have regional or global impact. A National Strategy and Action Plan on Biodiversity
Conservation, under preparation during Project appraisal, stressed key ecosystem and natural
habitat preservation through a well managed PA system, enhanced PA management, and
sustainable biodiversity use to contribute to economic and social objectives. The 2003 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) stressed employment generation and non-oil-based economic growth
through improving the business environment, particularly in smaller urban and rural areas; the
CAS included an IDA/GEF operation to support participatory approaches to sustainable forests,
pastures, and PA management, and to promote sub-regional cooperation in globally significant
Caucasus Mountains ecosystems. The Project aimed to support CAS goals by enabling rural
communities in Project areas to benefit from improved environmental management, adopt more
                                                1
profitable and environmentally sustainable livestock production systems, and initiate income-
generating activities relating to natural resource use.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO was to improve biodiversity conservation and introduce more sustainable natural
resource management and economic activities in two mountainous areas of Azerbaijan, to restore
the ecological health and productivity of their natural forests and pastures.

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The GEO was to protect biodiversity in two globally significant biodiversity areas within the
Caucasus and Zangezur mountains, and introduce and pilot an ecosystem-based approach for PA
management in Azerbaijan.

Key indicators of the GEO and PDO were:

    1. Establishment of the SDNP and enlargement of the ONP as indicated in the Project
       documents;
    2. Development and initial implementation of zoning and management plans for SDNP and
       ONP, following a participatory process;
    3. Implementation of pilot community-based tree planting activities (covering 3,000ha by
       midterm, and 9,000ha by Project end), to assist local communities to meet their need for
       fuel wood and wood products;
    4. Adoption of more modern, productive, and sustainable livestock husbandry practices by
       at least 20 percent of households in participating villages;
    5. 150 or more environmentally friendly, financially sound, small/medium enterprises
       identified, initiated and publicized (all or most receiving small grants from the Project as
       part of their overall financing package);
    6. Midterm and end-of-Project surveys indicating significantly increased awareness and
       understanding of, and support for, national parks and other protected areas (and more
       broadly, for environmentally sustainable development and natural resource management)
       within Project areas.
1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification. The PDO was not revised.
1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification. The GEO was not revised.
1.6 Main Beneficiaries
The main Project beneficiaries were MENR, which would receive support to expand and establish
national parks to fulfill Azerbaijan biodiversity conservation objectives; and communities in the
Shah Dagh and Ordubad protected areas, which would receive grants for environment friendly
investments to improve their livelihoods.
1.7 Original Components (as approved)
The Project had four components.
Component 1: Protected Area Establishment and Management (US$8.69m with US$3.33m
IDA, US$2.12m GEF, US$1.92m PHRD and US$1.32m recipient financing). The Component
would contribute directly to the GEO by supporting establishment and ecosystem-based
management of national parks in two globally significant biodiversity areas. Specifically, the
Component would support establishment of the SDNP, expansion of the ONP, and adjacent PAs,
through a three-phased approach: (i) national parks are created on specified areas of state-owned
                                                2
lands, including existing Specially Protected Natural Areas, Forest Fund land and high-elevation
meadows; (ii) national parks are expanded through addition of some areas of state-owned
pastures for which legislation would be amended to make provision for regulated grazing,
resident and other economic uses in accordance with park management plans; and (iii) national
parks and PAs are further expanded through incorporation of some areas of municipal or
privately-owned lands, without transfer of land ownership, based on voluntary agreements
between park administrations and land owners with the aim to reduce park fragmentation and
increase local support for the park through direct participation in tourism development and other
benefits.
The Project would also support measures to modernize and improve park management, restore
degraded areas, develop tourism, and increase stakeholder participation in park management.
Specific activities supported under this Component included: delineating and demarcating park
and other PA boundaries; providing technical assistance and training for institutional capacity
building; undertaking forest and meadow inventories, preparing plans for park zoning, park
management, and annual operating plans; implementing management plans, including reforesting
high-priority areas, rehabilitating and constructing critical infrastructure for management and
tourism, and providing essential equipment; implementing an ecological monitoring system; and
providing incremental operating costs.
Component 2: Community-level Investment in Sustainable Agriculture and Natural Resource
Management (US$4.48m with US$3.15m IDA, US$0.91m GEF, US$0.40m PHRD, and
US$0.03m recipient financing). This Component aimed to assist Project-area communities to
shift their practices in traditional agriculture and natural resource use towards more modern and
efficient approaches that reduce pressure on natural resources and ecosystems. This Component
would support the PDO by introducing sustainable natural resource management and economic
activities to improve biodiversity conservation.
The Component would target 55 villages1, comprising 50 percent of total population in the two
national parks. Villages were selected using agreed criteria, including dependence on park area
natural resources, hence their implied threat to park resources, and the implied threat posed to
their livelihoods if park management restricted their access. Selected villages were grouped into
15 Village Clusters (VCs) based on geographic proximity and topography. Each VC would
prepare and implement a Village Cluster Implementation Plan (VCIP), drawing upon a menu of
options2 that would help them move to more ecologically sustainable agricultural and natural
resource use practices. Grants ranging from US$150,000 to US$400,000 would be provided to
finance VCIP implementation; and the Component would provide two fuel-efficient stoves to
each village, to be installed in public buildings that are appropriate to demonstrate stove
practicality and fuel-savings potential.
An Approval Committee comprising representatives of the MENR, Ministries of Agriculture and
Economic Development, the local Executive Committee, and each participating municipality,
would approve the VCIPs to ensure alignment with other local development plans and objectives.
Detailed implementation arrangements, including flow of funds, procurement of works and
goods, would be determined during Project implementation.3
Component 3: Rural Enterprise Development (US$1.95m with US$0.79m IDA, US$0.76m
GEF, and US$0.40m PHRD financing). The Component aimed to stimulate Project area

1
  This included some 40 villages in Azerbaijan Republic and 15 villages in Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic.
2
  The agreed list of eligible activities included: agricultural machinery centers; fruit collection, storage, and drying
facilities; milk collection and processing; wool collection and initial processing; small-scale irrigation; artificial
insemination; pasture restoration; and biogas production.
3
  Identifying appropriate implementation arrangement also proved difficult under other projects with similar activities.
There were plans to find an across-the-board solution applicable to all such projects. A solution was expected to be
identified before VCIPs were approved and ready for implementation.
                                                           3
economic diversification by assisting local entrepreneurs to access technical and business
information and financing to start or expand small and medium-sized commercial,
environmentally sustainable enterprises through technical assistance and matching grants. Like
Component 2, activities under this Component would support the PDO by promoting sustainable
economic activities to help conserve biodiversity.
The Project would fund small mobile business advisory teams to: (i) raise public awareness for
the Project/component; and (ii) help clients identify commercial ventures, assess their viability,
and prepare business plans. Under Component 3, matching grants (US$2,000 to US$10,000)
would be available to start or expand small or medium-sized enterprises; the grant would support
up to 60 percent of sub-Project costs; the grantee would contribute 40 percent in cash.
A Grant Administrator (consultancy firm) would provide initial grant application screening
against agreed eligibility criteria and submit eligible applications to an Awarding Committee
comprising the PIU (chair), representatives of MENR, Ministry of Economic Development,
Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Youth, Sports and Tourism, to assess and select winning
applications. The Grant Administrator would also be responsible for monitoring grants.
Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Communications
(US$1.98m with US$0.73m IDA, US$1.22m GEF, and US$0.03m recipient financing). This
Component would support efficient and effective project management, essential to achieving the
PDO and GEO, including cross-cutting activities such as monitoring and evaluation (M&E),
developing and implementing a communications plan, detailed socio-economic studies to
improve targeting of project benefits, and facilitating development of a cross-sectoral, multi-
stakeholder tourism development plan for the greater Shah Dag area.
1.8 Revised Components. The Components were not revised.
1.9 Other significant changes. There were no other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
Project background analysis
During Project preparation, social, economic, institutional, environmental, and legal analyses
were carried out. The legal analysis missed a conflict between the Protected Areas Law and the
Land Code, with critical consequences. Focusing on the PA Law, the analysis concluded that
multiple uses of PAs were admissible under Azerbaijan law; in fact, the Land Code disallowed
this. The Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), the State Committee on Land Use and Cartography
(SCLU), and MENR reviewed the draft report but also missed this legal conflict. Furthermore,
during Project preparation, the World Bank task team discussed the proposed multiple-use
approach in the SDNP with MoA staff, but it was not until negotiations that Government took the
strong position that multiple use was inadmissible until the legal discrepancy was eliminated. As
a result, a three-phased approach to SDNP and OPN development (described in Component 1)
was agreed upon, allowing the Project to proceed to establish the SDNP, at least in "no-conflict"
areas. The Bank team insisted on an effectiveness condition: the issuance of the legal instrument
establishing the SDNP, because this was seen as crucial to achieve the GEO.
During Project preparation, the Bank team identified private dwellings in the Pirgulu Strict
Nature Reserve in areas anticipated to become part of the SDNP core strict-protection zone.
Although Government counterparts assured the team that these areas would become enclaves, this
issue became controversial when the SCLU identified these dwellings as they were preparing
SDNP maps to meet Project effectiveness conditions. Ultimately, the agencies reached agreement
that the dwellings constitute enclaves, but the process delayed Project effectiveness.

                                                4
Soundness of Project design. The Project design was not overly complex in number of
components or geographic dispersion. Project components complemented one another well:
pressure would be reduced gradually on PA natural resources through managed reductions in
grazing, but local communities would be provided with alternative means to generate income.
Municipalities supported the Project. Political commitment existed at the highest level of
Government, the President of the Republic, to establish the SDNP. During Project preparation,
the MENR appeared to be in full agreement with Project concept and objectives, and formally
approved the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), but in hindsight, Ministry commitment to the
Project appears questionable. Furthermore MENR leadership and capacity to implement
participatory multi-zone ecosystem conservation planning was extremely weak. Implementation
suffered from inadequate MENR capacity and championship for the Project.
The Project was not ready for implementation due to the conflict between two laws that blocked
GEO achievement. The specter that IDA resources could become unavailable, if the preparation
phase were to be extended to resolve the legal conflict, led to adopting the above-mentioned
effectiveness condition, and the three-phased approach that non public lands would be
incorporated gradually into the park. Similarly, approval of an SDNP Charter was imposed as a
disbursement condition for investments in the SDNP and the ONP. In addition, consultant
selection documents were not ready. During the first year of Project implementation, these
consultants were to prepare three major sets of plans for investments--management plans for the
SDNP and ONP (Component 1),4 village cluster investment plans (Component 2), and business
plans (Component 3). In hindsight, significant delays in preparing procurement documents
managed to derail the implementation schedule to a degree that made the investments in all three
Components impossible.
Participatory processes were adequate. The social and environmental assessment involved
consultations with about 400 local stakeholders in the Project areas. During Project preparation,
consultants and Bank preparation team members held multiple meetings with central Government
agencies. Consultants and Bank team members also held meetings with local governments,
including Mayors, and numerous other stakeholders, including local community members, private
business owners, and NGOs. Draft assessment reports were circulated for comment among
Government agencies. The Environmental Assessment and the Access Restriction Process
Framework (see Section 2.4) were disclosed publicly.
Lessons learned from previous operations incorporated in Project design.
a) Project design should be focused, limit geographic area and types of activities; pilot new
approaches before mainstreaming them at national level. The Project focused on the Shah Dag
and Ordubad areas, rather than addressing the entire national PA system; the objective was to
demonstrate approaches that could be replicated elsewhere. Component 2 focused on livestock
improvement and related economic activities, rather than supporting a broad menu of potential
local development objectives.
b) Be realistic about what can be achieved within the available time frame and the capacity of
implementing agencies, particularly if the Project introduces new ideas, approaches, and skills;
or requires substantial strengthening or establishing of new institutional structures, community
mobilization and participation, or restricting traditional access to natural resources.5 The team
incorporated this lesson by designing an implementation schedule that allowed adequate time for
key steps, including recruiting personnel, procuring works and goods; carrying out community
mobilization, awareness-raising, and participatory planning; building institutional capacity; and


4
  National Park investment plans would consist of two parts: the first would focus on investments in the existing park
territory as defined in the legal instrument establishing the NP in Phase 1; the second would identify investments for
areas added to the NPs in Phases 2 and 3, after amendment of the Land Use Code.
5
  This involves implementing an Access Restriction Process Framework
                                                           5
developing business plans. However, the team did not anticipate that the effectiveness condition,
set during negotiations, would absorb a substantial amount of time.
c) Set specific and realistic objectives and interim targets that can be used to evaluate progress;
reorient components or implementation approaches if needed. The Project Results Framework
laid out clearly defined, easy-to-monitor annual targets.
d) Combine enforcement with incentives for effective protection and sustainable management of
biodiversity and natural systems. The Project provided grants to communities living near the
National Parks for environment-friendly business and community investments, while
strengthening MENR capacity to manage the SDNP and OPN.
e) Involve key stakeholders early in Project design and preparation activities to ensure ownership
and relevance of the design and specific investments to country and local contexts. Considerable
effort was made to involve local stakeholders in Project preparation, including establishing local
Project offices. The Project also included measures to ensure communities have opportunities,
means, knowledge, and incentives to participate in park management.
f) Combine financial assistance for SME start-ups/expansion with professional business advice
and, to the extent possible, address constraints in the overall business environment (tax and other
policies, regulatory processes, infrastructure). The Project included a substantial investment in
technical assistance for PA management, community mobilization, and small enterprise
development, because Project preparation studies identified a lack of such services in the Project
areas as a major potential constraint to success.
Several lessons learnt from previous Bank-financed operations could have been integrated in
Project design. Notably previous operations had shown that effectiveness conditions that require
enactment of legislation or equivalent Government actions can significantly delay Project
effectiveness due to typically lengthy bureaucratic procedures. The Bank team recognized that
resolving the discrepancy between the PA Law and Land Use Code would take a long time;
hence, it was not an effectiveness condition. However, the team did insist that a condition for
effectiveness would be issuance of the legal instrument establishing the SDNP.
The rationale for Bank intervention was sound. The Bank was supporting rural poverty
reduction and environmental protection in Azerbaijan; the Bank mobilized GEF and PHRD grant
resources and concessionary IDA funds to support the Project PDO and GEO; and was involved
in similar operations in Georgia, Turkey, and Armenia, and could transfer valuable experiences.
Identification of risks and mitigation measures. In hindsight, "unfamiliarity implementing
multiple-use park and cross-sectoral approach could lead to delays in establishing key
institutional structures" was a risk that should have been rated "S" as opposed to "M." Azerbaijan
in general and MENR in particular had few professionals trained in modern PA management. The
risk mitigation measure "international TA and study tours" proved insufficient to create enough
local understanding and commitment to advance these concepts in the Azeri context.
Lack of inter-ministerial cooperation should have been identified as a significant risk, given that
Project preparation demonstrated that this could delay implementation (effectiveness of the GEF
Project preparation grant took about 12 months). Even minor conflicts could not be resolved
between the MENR and other government agencies whose input was needed for the Project; for
example, the conflict arising from the SCLU request that its staff preparing national park maps be
paid from Project proceeds contributed to delays in the effectiveness condition. During Project
negotiations, the PIU was fully staffed, but delayed effectiveness meant that some staff left when
they were uncompensated for a long time.
2.2 Implementation
In May 2005, following a 3.5-year preparation period, the Project was negotiated, and in June
2005, approved by the World Bank Board. Beginning with Project effectiveness, delays marred
                                                6
implementation. In December 2006, 18 months after Board approval, the SDNP was finally
established by Presidential decree, which was a condition of effectiveness. The disagreement on
SCLU compensation for generating national park maps was not resolved until winter 2005. By
then, severe weather prevented staff from carrying out fieldwork; later, there were lengthy
approval procedures for the maps. A disbursement condition under Component 1 was
Government approval of an SDPN Charter acceptable to the Bank, for goods and works; this
approval took another year until December 2006 because the Ministry of Agriculture strongly
opposed including private and municipal land in the national park.
In April 2007, Project ratings for achieving the PDO and the GEO, and for implementation
progress were reduced to "Moderately Unsatisfactory." At that point, investments in national
parks depended on consultants preparing zoning and management plans in consultation with local
stakeholders. However, consultant selection was severely delayed until late 2008. Although
Components 2-4 had no disbursement conditions, key contracts for village cluster investment
plans, business plans, and grant proposals (required before corresponding Component
investments could be made) were not signed until September 2008, some 40 months after Board
approval. These contracts were delayed due to severe understaffing of the PIU; notably, the PIU
lacked a qualified procurement specialist during most of 2007-08. Similarly, Coordinators and
Assistants to the Coordinators for the regional PIU offices were not hired until late 2008, which
violated the Dated Covenant in the Credit Agreement that these positions be filled within three
months of Project effectiveness. Some consultant selections and contract awards were held up and
reversed, and the PIU Director was diverted from Project activities to other task assignments. The
SDNP was not fully staffed until very late in the Project, and during implementation, MENR
often balked at supporting local communities.
The Mid-term Review, originally scheduled for December 2008, was postponed to the autumn of
2009 due to significant delays in Project implementation. In autumn 2008, the Bank team
considered Project restructuring, including partial cancellation, but rejected this on the grounds
that cancelling any Components would jeopardize the other Components.
Late in 2008, Project outputs were a fraction of what was anticipated and the cumulative
disbursement ratio stood at 5.76 percent for the IDA credit, 10.2 percent for the GEF grant, and
27.6 percent for the PHRD grant. Project PDO/GEO and IP ratings were reduced to
"Unsatisfactory." The November 2008 mission Aide Memoire indicated that the Bank would
issue a formal threat of suspension unless specified actions were taken by February 15, 2009.
These actions were carried out. On February 24, 2009, the Bank followed up, informing
Government that if all activities under a second action plan were completed satisfactorily by May
15, 2009, Project performance ratings would be upgraded and an extension of the Project closing
date would be considered to allow time to implement plans for park management, community
investment, and rural enterprise development. If these actions were not completed on time, the
Project would be closed.
During the first half of 2009, Project performance improved and in June 2009, a Bank mission
recommended Project restructuring and a two-year extension of the original closing date of
December 31, 2009; the Aide Memoire included a new set of agreed actions. However, by
October 2009, prior to discussions with Government on Project restructuring, a Bank mission
team found that most of these actions were incomplete. Mission team discussions with
consultants preparing SDNP and OPN management plans revealed that even if the Project closing
date were to be extended by two years, these plans would not be completed before August 2011,
leaving insufficient time for implementation and monitoring.7 As a result, the Project was closed
on December 31, 2009. The final cumulative disbursement rates were 1.3 percent for the IDA

6
  Equivalent to initial transfer of IDA funds from the Bank to the Special Account, but not necessarily expensed for
Project activities.
7
  MENR disagrees and maintains that management plans could have been completed by August 2010.
                                                           7
credit, 16.6 percent for the GEF grant, and 98.2 percent for the PHRD grant. The few outputs that
were achieved included establishing SPNP and its charter, developing draft NP management
plans, village cluster investment plans, and business plans for small and medium enterprises. No
physical investments occurred (Annex 2).
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design. Overall, the M&E framework design was good. Key Indicators (See Section 1.3) were
well chosen to measure progress towards the PDO and the measurable part of the GEO
("introduce and pilot an eco-system-based approach for PA management in Azerbaijan"). Key
Indicators were measurable with data that would emerge during Project implementation. The
Results Monitoring Framework presented in Annex 3 detailed output indicators related to Key
Indicators; most included baseline values and target values by year. Social indicators were to be
refined based on data from a socio-economic study to be carried out during the first Project year.
Implementation. The PIU, understaffed during most of implementation, had no designated M&E
staff. Nevertheless, progress was measured in the few Project activities that were implemented;
specifically SDNP establishment and ONP enlargement, for which detailed qualitative and
quantitative (area) data were documented. Also monitored and documented was progress in
selecting qualified sub-projects in Project areas to receive grant funding. However, the socio-
economic study planned for the first Project year was never carried out (see section on Social
Safeguards). Failure to carry out this study should have downgraded M&E performance to
"Unsatisfactory" in the first year after Project effectiveness; instead, it was not until late 2008,
when the "marginally satisfactory" rating became "unsatisfactory."
Utilization. Parts of the M&E framework were utilized in gauging Project progress relative to
targets, as documented in mission Aide Memoires. However, without the socio-economic study,
detailed socio-economic data could not be included in park management planning or used to
measure local public awareness and support for Project activities.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards
The Project triggered four safeguards policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Involuntary
Resettlement (OP 4.12), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04) and the Forest Policy (OP 4.36).
Environmental Safeguards. During appraisal, the Project was assessed as having an overall
positive environmental impact by conserving globally and nationally significant biodiversity,
protecting rare, transboundary ecosystems, and enhancing the sustainability of natural resource
use in the Project areas. Main potential environmental impacts identified were as follows:
    ·   Impacts on flora and fauna, land erosion, waste generation, associated with construction
        and rehabilitation of NP infrastructure;
    ·   Disturbance of wildlife, generation of solid waste, overuse or pollution of surface water
        caused by potential increased tourism/recreational use of the two national park areas;
    ·   Impacts associated with construction, waste disposal, over-harvesting of vulnerable
        species, potentially linked to micro-projects under Project Components 2 and 3;
To address these issues, and provide adequate mitigation measures, an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP, for OP 4.01, 4.04 and 4.36) was prepared and duly disclosed during
Project preparation. The EMP provisions were incorporated in the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM), including screening construction activities under Component 1 and preparing
environmental management provisions to be incorporated in contracts; screening and preparing
EMPs or Environmental Reviews for micro-projects implemented by village clusters
(Component 2) and entrepreneurs (Component 3).

                                                 8
During the June 2009 supervision, the Bank team emphasized the importance of following EMP
recommendations: (i) while preparing investment and business plans under Components 2 and 3,
so that appropriate environmental management documentation is prepared and incorporated in
grant proposals, and permits are obtained; (ii) while preparing park management plans; and (iii)
while considering options to expand the national parks. During the October 2009 mission, the
Bank team discovered that none of the business plans and only some investment plans prepared
to date included EMPs, and these required revisions to specify and address micro-project
impacts. For example, one village cluster proposed an agro-mechanization center on a river bank
but no measures were specified to address potential fuel leakages from machinery. The mission
advised the PIU and component consultants on preparing adequate EAs and EMPs, however, the
Project closed soon after this mission. Consultants submitted final CVIPs and business plans
shortly before the Project closing date, but plan implementation will not be financed.
Environmental safeguard ratings should have been adjusted downward from "Satisfactory" to
reflect the findings of the May and October 2009 supervision missions.
Social Safeguards. Under the Project, no villages or households would be relocated and land
ownership and rights would not be affected. However, the World Bank Involuntary Resettlement
Policy was triggered because establishing, enlarging, and improving enforcement of the two NPs
would reduce local people's access to pastures and forests that are traditionally important for their
livelihoods. An Access Restriction Process Framework (ARPF) detailed measures to mitigate
short-term Project impacts, including involving local users in park zoning and management
planning, phasing in grazing restrictions, and support for developing alternate livestock rearing
methods, sources of fuel wood, and income, including employment in the parks. Furthermore,
development assistance provided under Components 2 and 3 would be targeted to villages most
likely to be affected by resource access restrictions. Village Clusters targeted for assistance under
Component 2 were selected based on their proximity to park areas likely to have tighter resource
use restrictions. The park management planning process and the Social Mitigation Plan (see
below) would indicate whether any additional mitigation measures should be undertaken in these
villages.
The PIU would establish a program to assess, monitor, and mitigate socio-economic impacts.
This would include: (i) preparing a detailed socio-economic study during the first year (building
upon work carried out during Project preparation); (ii) preparing a Social Mitigation Plan to
ensure that Project benefits are targeted to people affected by resource access restrictions and
vulnerable community groups within the communities, and optimally designed and implemented
to help alleviate poverty in these remote, economically depressed areas; (iii) strengthening
conflict resolution processes and ensuring adequate grievance procedures; and (iv) refining socio-
economic baseline and impact indicators and targets for the Project.
In keeping with the ARPF, the consultant retained to prepare NP management plans for the ONP
and the SDNP held consultations with local stakeholders. However, since draft plans were
completed in December 2009 and never submitted to the Bank for review, the Bank team had no
opportunity to determine whether they reflected the ARPF. In any case, Project implementation
never advanced sufficiently to curtail local inhabitants' access to pastures and forests traditionally
important for local livelihoods. A socio-economic study was never carried out and a Social
Mitigation Plan was never developed.
Procurement
The PIU procurement capacity was weak during most of Project implementation. In January
2009, two years after Project effectiveness and repeated alerts from the Bank about inadequate
procurement capacity, a Procurement Specialist (PS) finally was hired. Before that, the PIU
Director, who had a general understanding of Bank procurement procedures, had assumed
responsibility. Therefore, three large QCBS selections to implement the three Project components

                                                  9
were concluded with significant delays. The new PS was unable to attend Bank procurement
training, but his practical experience in procurement from previous assignments helped build
some PIU procurement capacity and progress was made under CQ and shopping contracts.
The selection of individual PIU consultants, including a Procurement Specialist, experienced
significant delays.TOR clearances by MENR were slow. Several candidates were rejected on the
grounds that they were unsatisfactory because they had, for example, worked in several PIUs, or
appeared to be uncommitted to environmental protection, criteria that were not included in the
TORs.8 Several rounds of advertisements were carried out before an evaluation report was
submitted to the Bank. Without a legal covenant that an operational PIU must be in place at all
times, the Bank team lacked grounds for Project suspension in response to these actions.
After repeated failures to identify suitable PIU consultants, MENR proposed that staff take a
leave of absence to work in the PIU and be compensated from Project proceeds, which would
help build MENR capacity. The Bank rejected this proposal because under Bank procurement
guidelines this constitutes a conflict of interest, unless Ministry staff had left their positions at
least six months prior to working for the PIU.
Another Government refusal to award a contract occurred during selection of a satellite image
company. In the summer of 2009, the Government Selection Committee formally submitted their
report to the Bank for `no objection' but subsequently the Ministry cancelled the selection
without formal explanation. Informally, the reason given was that the selected company did not
perform well in a previous assignment, although this was never substantiated.
Financial Management (FM)
The FM Specialist and FM assistant positions were not filled during Project implementation until
the final year; until then, the PIU Manager carried out FM functions. Project FM rating was
downgraded to "Moderately Satisfactory" during the final two years of the Project, due to weak
budgeting and staffing arrangements. The PIU FM team was never able to develop a budget
system that could help the PIU to improve Project implementation progress, and FM assistant
roles and responsibilities were unclear.
The PIU maintained Project accounting records in 1C based accounting software. The system had
capacity to generate Bank-required reports. Quarterly financial reports and annual audit reports
were submitted punctually, and were satisfactory to the Bank. In general, the PIU FM team
focused on maintaining accounting records and paid limited attention to overall Project
implementation issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The SDNP and ONP will continue under the MENRs of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the
Autonomous Republic of Nahkchivan, respectively. However, effective biodiversity conservation
is unlikely unless there are complete multiple zone management plans, park infrastructure based
on those management plans, and skilled staff to carry them out. Also, it is unlikely that all three
phases of park development will ever be achieved, given the unresolved legislative bottleneck.
Local populations' support for biodiversity conservation hinges on benefits from national parks.
Funding for Project-developed village cluster plans and business plans may materialize in the
ONP area, according to the Ministry of Environment of the Nahkchivan AR. It would be
desirable that these plans also be utilized in the SDNP area, if Government or international
funding becomes available.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

8
    Stated in meetings with Bank supervision teams during missions.
                                                          10
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Establishing the SDPN and enlarging the ONP remain relevant to Azerbaijan's biodiversity
protection objective, which is to increase the land area under protection. MENR has increased the
area under protection to 18 percent of Azerbaijan's total land area through creating eight national
parks, four nature reserves, and four nature sanctuaries, and expanding six sanctuaries and two
national parks since 2003. MENR reports that multiple zones are being established in the Goy-
Gol, Shirvan, and Hirkan National Parks.
However, significant progress is still needed for the institutionalization of ecosystem-
based, multi-use nature conservation, rather than the exclusive strict protection approach. In
recent years, MENR's focus appears to have been on expanding the area "under protection" with
the belief that securing such legal status would ensure protection and halt the negative effects that
the ongoing privatization process may have on critical areas. However, this approach can have the
opposite effect by undermining local community support for and participation in conservation.
For example, recently the area of the old Zaqatala Strict Nature Reserve was doubled. As a
consequence, almost all forest area of the Balakan region is now included in the Zaqatala Strict
State Nature Reserve. Although many communities still depend on fuel wood, a traditional use
zone was not created. As a result, illegal use is unavoidable and will be counterproductive to
biodiversity conservation.9 It is encouraging that MENR will be working with the German
Technical Cooperation Agency GtZ and German Reconstruction Credit Institute KfW to
introduce the multi-zone approach to this Pprotected Area.
The Project is relevant to the 2007-10 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS); one of the pillars is
"Improving environmental management and furthering the climate change agenda" by cleaning
up legacy pollution, reducing carbon emissions, and promoting biodiversity; supporting more
sustainable natural resource management in selected areas; and strengthening natural disaster
management. The Project PDO and GEO remain globally relevant. Biodiversity conservation and
protection of natural habitats and ecosystems can contribute to effective mitigation and adaptation
strategies to address climate change.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment Objectives

The PDO and the GEO were not achieved, as a review of the Key Indicators (under 1.3 above)
shows. Only Indicator No. 1, establishment of the SDNP and enlargement of ONP, was fully
completed. Under Indicator No. 2, draft zoning and management plans for the SDNP and ONP
were prepared, but plan quality and responsiveness to stakeholder concerns could not be
ascertained by the Bank team because the plans were never submitted for review. Furthermore,
the human and material infrastructure for plan implementation was not established during the
Project life. Implementation of community-based tree planting activities (Indicator No. 3) and
adoption of modern livestock husbandry practices (Indicator No. 4) were not started. Under
Indicator No. 5, more than 150 environmentally friendly, financially sound, small/medium
enterprises were identified, but grants could not be extended, because the Project closed before
the plans and the implementation mechanisms were finalized. Finally, no baseline and follow-up
social survey was carried out, so changes in awareness and support for national parks and PAs
could not be measured (Indicator No. 6).
3.3 Efficiency
During Project preparation, an economic analysis and a GEF incremental cost analysis were
carried out. The PAD reported an IRR of 26 percent, a net present value of US$44 million and a
cost/benefit ratio of 3.5.10 The economic analysis appears to be based on financial returns

9
 The Zaqatala Strict Nature Reserve is not in the Project area.
10
  The PAD also reported a financial IRR, PV, and C-B ratio, although the Project did not involve financial flows to
and from a single entity.
                                                         11
accruing to beneficiaries in the Project area, including from increased tourist spending, park
visitor fees, maintaining long-term revenues from sheep grazing, (as pasture degradation is halted
and reversed), increased yields of cow milk, enhanced crop yields, sustainable wood harvesting
and profits from new and enhanced small businesses. The PAD notes that the economic analysis
excluded potentially large benefits from reduced flooding and sedimentation, and non-market
benefits accruing to expatriates and visitors to Azerbaijan, and the international community as a
whole through improved biodiversity.
None of the above benefits materialized due to the limited actions completed during the Project
life (Annex 2). The benefits of outputs that were achieved (developing draft NP management
plans, village cluster investment plans, and business plans for small and medium enterprises) are
impossible to quantify given the uncertainty of implementation. As such, the IRR of the Project is
likely below the opportunity cost of capital.
Regarding incremental cost analysis, neither Project contribution to the Baseline Scenario nor the
GEF Alternative Scenario materialized. During Project appraisal, an incremental cost analysis
was prepared. At Project closure, US$0.93m from the GEF grant and US$2.76m PHRD grant had
been disbursed (Table 1 in Annex 3). The GEF grant primarily funded Project management costs
and partial costs of Component 1. The PHRD grant funded preparation of management plans, and
village cluster investment and business plans for villages in Project areas. None of these plans
could be implemented before Project closure; the Project did not contribute to the Baseline
Scenario, as indicated by the very limited expenditures under Components 2 and 3.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome and Global Environment Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory
Ecosystem conservation and rural poverty reduction remain relevant for Azerbaijan's high
mountain areas and for global biodiversity protection. However¸ very few planned Project outputs
were achieved due to implementation delays. As a result, the PDO and GEO were not achieved.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty reduction in Project areas was implicit to the Project because limited economic
opportunities led people to engage in environmentally unsustainable activities. Village-level
support to communities and to individual entrepreneurs through grants for environment friendly
investments aimed to improve livelihoods and reduce pressure on overexploited pastures and
forests. Since Project implementation was unsuccessful, these benefits did not materialize.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Developing village plans and enterprise business plans, supported by international technical
assistance, increased beneficiary skills to develop such plans, which should be eligible to request
funding from other financiers. International consultants' technical assistance to draft zoning and
management plans may contribute to future multi-zone national park management planning, if the
authorities pursue this.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Local Coordination Units and consultants working on the project reported to the ICR mission that
Project area communities and individuals were disappointed that investment plans developed
under Components 2 and 3 of the project would not be financed.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was not carried out.


                                                12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment
Outcome
Rating: High
The PDO and GEO were not achieved.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Project preparation team carried out thorough social, economic, and physical assessments
required for good Project design and consultations with central and Project-area stakeholders. The
Project concept and financing packages were strong, and could have achieved significant
improvements under more favorable institutional conditions. In the face of the conflict regarding
the permissibility of economic activities in PAs, the Bank team decision to break down national
park development into three phases was appropriate. However, the Bank did not accurately assess
the risk posed by institutional weaknesses and lack of inter-agency cooperation to fulfilling the
Project effectiveness condition and Project implementation in general. In hindsight, the Bank
should have considered putting the Project on hold until the legislative bottleneck was overcome
and the Project had full support from all agencies, before submitting it for Board approval. It
would have been useful to have had some village cluster plans and business plans ready during
Project preparation and in the pipeline for immediate implementation during the first Project year.
Similarly, it would have been very useful if procurement documents for the three key main
consultancy assignments had been prepared during preparation so the selection process could
have been initiated upon effectiveness.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Project had three task team leaders (TTLs) in four years; one TTL for one year, which
disrupted the client dialogue and severely undermined supervision efficiency as each new TTL
built a learning curve on the Project, stakeholders and issues.11 Implementation performance,
including short-term targets, should have been closely monitored earlier than late-2008. Instead,
given the magnitude of Project problems, monthly videoconferences and short-term action plans
beginning at Project effectiveness, could have avoided or mitigated some problems. The Project
should have been downgraded earlier from "Moderately Satisfactory" to "Moderately
Unsatisfactory" and then to "Unsatisfactory", and the threat of suspension could have been issued
earlier, in response to severe delays in PIU staffing, selection of international consultants for the
key technical assistance contracts, and appointment of SDNP staff.
In the light of prolonged underperformance during project implementation, Bank
messages to Government could have been firmer during the period leading up to the
original closing date of December 31, 2009. Specifically, upgrading following the May
2009 mission was premature on progress towards the PDO/GEO to "Moderately
Unsatisfactory", and implementation performance from "U" to "MS". To avoid
misperceptions, the Aide Memoire from the May 2009 mission should have pointed out
that the Project would not be extended unless agreed actions were completed by specified
dates. Instead, the Aide Memoire indicated that the October 2009 mission would focus on
Project restructuring and extension.

11
  The first TTL was changed due to a change in positions and the second due to a rotation to another region within the
Bank.
                                                         13
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Project, while conceptually and financially strong, was not ready for implementation due to
conflicts in the legal framework and lack of support from a key ministry, both of which
threatened the GEO and PDO. In hindsight, the Bank should have taken the difficult but prudent
path of halting Project processing until these obstacles were overcome. During Project
implementation, the Bank should have supervised more intensively, limited task team leader
changes, and issued a threat to suspend earlier.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
During Project preparation, all relevant Government agencies sent letters of support, but full
commitment to the Project concept was not achieved. Notably, during Project preparation
consultation, Government did not point out that multiple use in PAs, the heart of the original
concept, would not be possible since the Land Code disallowed it. Inter-agency conflicts, such as
the State Committee on Land Use and Cartography, were protracted rather than resolved
cooperatively, which might have indicated lack of commitment. However, municipalities were
highly supportive of the Project, as evidenced by their prompt approval of the NP maps.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
MENR performance appears to be a main factor leading to poor Project outcomes. MENR
intervention in procurement processes led to delays. The PIU Manager's attention was often
diverted to non-Project-related assignments, exacerbating the effects of PIU understaffing, and
further delaying implementation. Conflicts with other government agencies led to significant
delays. Low technical capacity among MENR staff, limited contribution to Project
implementation, and prolonged reviews of technical materials also delayed Project
implementation. In addition, already-limited staff capacity was severely overextended because
MENR was simultaneously implementing multiple Projects. By contrast, the Nakhchivan
Autonomous Republic MENR was highly committed to the Project. Its initiatives allowed timely
implementation of Project actions in the ONP area.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Borrower appeared to be less than fully committed to the Project, as evidenced by lack of
interagency cooperation and lack of ministerial support to implementation. Project area
municipalities and the Nahkchivan Autonomous Republic agencies are an exception to this, but
their efforts yielded limited impact in a highly centralized decision-making environment.

6. Lessons Learned
·   Projects that involve selecting sub-grant beneficiaries using selection criteria and
    mechanisms, should pilot the selection during Project preparation to identify any weaknesses
    in the proposed process, and have a pipeline of pilot sub-projects ready to implement
    promptly upon Project effectiveness. When Government and other potential beneficiaries see
    immediate Project results, it creates initial momentum for the Project, rather than carrying out
    seemingly endless studies, even during Project implementation.
·   Ensure Project readiness for implementation before taking it to Board. Avoid effectiveness or
    disbursement conditions that require prolonged bureaucratic procedures, parliamentary

                                                14
    deliberations, or stakeholder negotiations; ensure that conditions are met before Board
    submission. Ensure that all relevant procurement documents for the first-year consultant
    selections and procurements are ready by Board submission.
·   If Project effectiveness is delayed by more than nine months, downgrade implementation
    performance to MS/MU and to MU, U or HU if effectiveness does not ensue within 12
    months.
·   Minimize changes in task team leadership to ensure supervision quality, especially in
    problem projects.
·   Implement close performance monitoring with short-term (90 day and 180 day) performance
    targets; use monthly video conferences to track performance and address emerging issues
    before the Project develops serious performance issues. Consider restructuring early if
    implementation remains slow.
·   Look for sustained implementation progress before upgrading Project ratings and decreasing
    supervision intensity in problem projects.
·   Seek temporary assistance or consider part-time contracts to avoid delays in implementation
    when project procurement or FM positions are unfilled; seek help from other Bank projects in
    the same or neighboring countries.
·   Apply and enforce legal covenants and Bank policies and guidelines on financial
    management, procurement and safeguards.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
MENR disagrees with several of the ICR's findings and assessments. MENR comments
are reproduced in Annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers. No comments were received from the Embassy of Japan in Baku.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society). Not applicable.




                                              15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
 Rural Environment Project - P066199 (incl. Rural Environment GEF Project - P077031)12
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                    (USD millions)
 Protected Areas Establishment
                                         7.79               1.80          23.1%
and Management
 Community-level investment in
                                         3.96               0.49          12.4%
sustainable agriculture and NRM
 Rural Enterprise Development            1.90               0.70          36.8%
 Project Management, M&E,
                                         1.85               0.73          39.5%
Communications

             Total Baseline Cost                       15.50      3.72     21.08%
Physical Contingencies                                  0.56      0.00      0.00%
Price Contingencies                                     1.04      0.00      0.00%
                    Total Project Costs                17.10      3.72     21.8%
PPF                                                     0.00      0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                      0.00      0.00
       Total Financing Required                        17.10      3.72     21.8%




(b) Financing
 P066199 - Rural Environment Project (Incl. P077031 - Rural Environment GEF Project)
                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                   Type of                                 Percentage of
          Source of Funds                       Estimate       Estimate
                                  Financing                                 Appraisal
                                             (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                         Cash             1.38           0.02         1.4%
 International Development
                                  Credit           8.00           0.10         1.3%
Association (IDA)
Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant            5.00           0.93        18.6%
 JAPAN: Ministry of Finance -
                                  Grant            2.72           2.67        98.2%
PHRD Grants




12
     The GEF Project was fully blended in the IDA Project.
                                                             16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Protected Area Establishment and Management
Park Expansion. Of the three phases envisaged at appraisal, only Phase 1, namely park
establishment and expansion, was completed at Project closure. The area of SDNP was increased
from the baseline of 21,000 ha to 115,000ha, which compares favourably with the target of
112,814 ha. In ONP, the target for expansion over the life of the Project was 43,300 ha; at
Project closure, the park area included 42,797ha.
Phase 2 was underway at Project closure whereby areas of state-owned pastures were being
added to the existing parks. However, legislative amendments to provide for regulated grazing,
resident and other economic uses in these areas were still pending awaiting Presidential approval.
Furthermore, the final Bank supervision mission assessed that the "pastures" being added to the
SDNP had no particular significance for biodiversity protection or ecological functions (erosion
control, ecological restoration, migration corridors, etc.) as indicated at Project appraisal.
Instead, they were the highest-elevation grazing areas on marginal lands, often just exposed rock
with limited vegetation, that were not being leased for grazing domestic animals by the Ministry
of Agriculture. The Bank team questioned the value of these lands for biodiversity conservation
when compared to the overall distribution of available pasture lands in the SDNP Project area.
However, MENR disagreed with this assessment.
Phase 3, which was to involve expansion of parks and PAs through incorporation of some areas
of municipal or privately-owned lands had not commenced by Project closure due to lack of an
enabling legislative environment.
Park Management. In early 2009, preliminary steps towards developing zoning and park
management plans were completed by the Project-financed consultant team. Initial biodiversity
inventories, rapid ecological assessments and pasture and forest inventories were also developed
based on available information and statistics that were to provide the basis for zoning plans for
the parks. However, technical background data were never made available to the international
consultants, and could not be covered by rapid ecological assessments; other data never became
available, for example, on the broad picture of wildlife winter and summer ranges and the
interaction between wild and domesticated animals.
Available raw data was of limited quality so the Project made provisions for satellite imagery of
the parks to verify, strengthen, and fill existing data gaps. During the June 2009 mission, it was
agreed that this process would be completed by September/October 2009. In the event, MENR
overruled consultant selection for satellite imagery procurement, which was a setback for Project
implementation.
Without satellite imagery, data analyses were impossible so the Project lacked comprehensive
ecological information on the Project component area. This information was critical to prepare
zoning plans, and subsequently to develop the five-year park management plans.13
Park Infrastructure. A study was completed on national park infrastructure identification, design,
prioritization, and supervision, including the bill of quantity and cost estimates. The study
detailed infrastructure such as roads, bridges, retaining walls, and culverts; superstructure such as
buildings; and specified requirements for construction and supervision work for SDNP and ONP.


13
   The MENR ICR states that consultants prepared zoning and management using Landsat satellite images and
submitted them to the PIU in December 2009; the Bank team had no chance to review those plans. However, during the
October 2009 mission, discussions with the same consultant indicated that obtaining new satellite images would require
a revised delivery date for management plans in early 2011.
                                                         17
However, works design or construction never began.14 In addition, because no equipment needs
were ever identified, procurement was never initiated.15
SDNP Staffing. Staffing of the SDNP was incomplete right up until Project closure, which
hampered implementation of this Component. In July 2009, a SDNP Director was appointed, but
the Bank mission considered the appointee under qualified to serve as a permanent Director.
Training. Key personnel were lacking so capacity building and training activities associated with
forestry and pasture management could not be undertaken, and these actions were critical to
develop suitable park management plans. In April 2009, some training was provided on
preparation and implementation of park management plans. However, the October 2009 mission
Aide Memoire notes that attendance was poor and participants were staff not directly associated
with the NPs.
Other Activities. During the June 2009 mission, MENR requested that US$1.0 million be
allocated under this Component for forestry activities. This would have included, inter alia,
support for seedling greenhouses, two efficient wood-burning stoves installed in each village,
and afforestation in the SDNP and ONP, in part to meet fuel wood needs for local people. The
Bank agreed to meet this request, but no actions were taken to implement this activity. Similarly,
the PIU took no action in response to the Minister's June 2009 request to undertake a socio-
economic study and public awareness campaign.
Based on the above status, the Bank team concluded that there were insufficient grounds to
upgrade and then restructure and extend the Project. Furthermore, the team maintained that even
a two-year project extension would prove insufficient, to complete management plans, initiate
implementation, and monitor the range of planned activities. The PIU and MENR disagreed with
this assessment and maintained that outstanding activities could have been completed in 2010, if
the Bank had granted an extension.
Component 2: Community-level Investment in Sustainable Agriculture and Natural Resource
Management
In September 2008, Component implementation began, nearly three years after Project
effectiveness, when the consultancy contract was awarded to a firm that provided three Village
Cluster Planning Teams (VCPTs): two VCPTs for the SDNP area, and one for ONP area. The
VCPTs were responsible for the following: (i) mobilize local people in the VCs and raise
awareness/support for the Project; (ii) assist the VCs to develop Concept Plans and Village
Cluster Investment Plans (VCIPs) based on guidelines provided in the Project Implementation
Manual; (iii) identify appropriate implementing agency for the VCIPs; and (iv) prepare Grant
Agreements to implement the VCIP.
Village Cluster populations in SDNP and ONP supported anticipated Component activities. The
consultants held a series of meetings with VC communities to provide information on Project-
provided types of assistance, potential implementation arrangements, terms of participation, and
individual and community roles and responsibilities for implementation.
The October 2009 mission reviewed the eight VCIPs and noted two primary deficiencies:
     (a) Implementation Arrangements. VCIPs did not specify the institutional mechanisms for
          undertaking sub-project implementation. After extensive discussions, it was agreed that

14
   During the June 2009 mission it was agreed that by July 2009 the PIU would issue a contract for design preparation,
and infrastructure construction and supervision work, and November 2009, all work would be completed. In October
2009, the PIU submitted a bid evaluation report and a draft contract for the Bank "no objection," however, since it was
uncertain whether the Project would be extended, the Bank team refrained from providing "no objection."
15
   The Borrower ICR states that a "list of equipment needs was submitted to the World Bank in February 2009,"
however, the PIU indicated that the list submitted required further verification and inputs by consultants and therefore
should not be considered a final list.
                                                          18
        in each Village Cluster, the central village municipality was the owner of the sub-
        project, but sub-project implementation could be contracted to a private management
        company. Further, it was agreed that to achieve efficiency and economies of scale, two
        regional management companies would be hired to implement investment plans--one
        for the SDNP area, and the other for the ONP area. A three-party contract would be
        signed by the PIU, the VC central municipality, and the management company. The
        management company would be responsible for sub-project for implementation
        (procurement of goods, works, and services according to Bank guidelines, fee collection
        for use of goods and services, etc.), the PIU would advise, support, and supervise the
        implementing agency, including training in procurement, accounting, and key technical
        skills. Finally, it was agreed that if any VC municipality was sufficiently well-
        developed with sufficient capacity, it could serve as the implementing agency.
    (b) Absence of EA/EMP. The VCIPs did not provide environmental impact assessments for
        the proposed investments, but since the investments involved civil works to establish
        agricultural machinery centers, for example, the Bank team emphasized that each sub-
        project needed an environmental assessment and an environmental management plan
        including any necessary mitigation measures.
Completion of these plans was delayed, which left insufficient time for the Approval Committee
to review or approve them. In conclusion, the Project was unable to implement any VCIP and
thus contribute to the Project development objective. MENR and the PIU maintain that given the
commitment of community members, local Government authorities and municipalities, all 15
investment plans could have been implemented in 2010 if the Project been extended.
The PIU reports that in December 2009, the consultant submitted 15 revised VCIPs to the PIU.
These VCIPs were never submitted for Bank review; however oral communication with the PIU
indicated that key shortcomings of the initial VCIPs had not been addressed, namely the VCIPs
lacked clear specifications for implementation arrangements.
Component 3: Rural Enterprise Development
In September 2008, Component implementation began with the award of the Business Advisory
Services (BAS) consultancy contract. Consultants visited the 55 targeted villages in the 15 VCs
in both NPs, conducted focus groups with potential Project beneficiaries, and carried out a needs
assessment; they developed a comprehensive socio-economic baseline database, which was used
to help identify gaps, needs, and opportunities for potential VC sub-projects/grant applications.
As envisaged at appraisal, the consultants set up five mobile Business Advisory Teams (BATs),
three in SDNP and two in Nakhchivan; they selected Community facilitators/trainers in all 15
VCs and provided training to enable them to disseminate Project information among villagers
and help prepare business plans and grant proposals. A Website was established to provide
communities with information on business advisory services.
The BATs and community facilitators worked closely with villagers to identify grant priorities,
which included, inter alia: bee-keeping, orchards, breeding small ruminants and cattle,
establishing fisheries and tourism.
Communities extended a high level of support for the Component and villagers welcomed the
Project-provided opportunities for income generation, new skill development, new or additional
employment and improving their overall standard of living. About 202 grant proposals were
developed and submitted to the grant administrator responsible for initial screening of grants, and
subsequently for grant administration and monitoring.
In September 2009, a grant administrator was selected but since it was uncertain that the Project
would be extended, the contract was not signed.


                                                19
In summary, delayed development of grant proposals and delayed selection of a grant
administrator prevented implementation; therefore, the Component failed to contribute to
meeting the Project development objective. Moreover, as in Component 2, Project area
inhabitants had high levels of enthusiasm, expectations, and support for the Project; betraying
their trust and failing to deliver on Project outputs is a seriously unfortunate outcome.
Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Communications
The PIU was staffed only after substantial delays; most key personnel were not in place until the
third year of Project implementation; the procurement specialist was hired in January 2009. The
PIU, although fully staffed in the final Project year, still lacked sufficient technical capacity to
implement the Project. Bank supervision missions found that Component managers were
insufficiently qualified or skilled to be proactive or implement Project activities. Due to other
MENR assignments, the PIU Director was unable to dedicate sufficient time to the Project. Also,
heavily centralized decision making substantially delayed project implementation because
MENR insisted on reviewing all correspondence and daily implementation activities.
Several activities specified in the Project Implementation Manual as PIU tasks were never
implemented, including a communications strategy, a socio-economic study, and a tourism plan.




                                                20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
During Project preparation, an incremental cost analysis (ICA) was carried out. The ICA defined
a baseline scenario and a GEF alternative scenario. The analysis posited that under the baseline
scenario establishment and management of national parks would be along the lines of the
traditional system of protected areas. Parks would focus primarily on strict nature reserves and
not include biodiversity conservation on a broader, multiple-use, landscape level. Forest and
meadow inventories/assessments would be carried out over several years, limiting park managers'
ability to establish and implement effective management plans. Consequently, forest areas would
continue to decline as local people harvested trees and branches for fuel wood. Over-grazing
would also continue on alpine pastures outside of Park core reserve areas, diminishing grass
cover and biodiversity, and increasing erosion, flooding, and downstream sedimentation.
Biodiversity would decline due to lost forest cover, overgrazing, uncontrolled hunting, and
collection of non-timber forest products, and unchecked, unregulated development. In the face of
lacking environmental management rising livestock numbers would degrade environmentally
sensitive pastures. The ICA also posited that without environmental management, new enterprises
would develop in and around the Park, based on Park amenities and natural resources, and a focus
on tourism-based businesses would attract more resorts, restaurants, and recreational activities
that would be established without zoning or development regulation to manage impacts on natural
resources and biodiversity.
The baseline scenario was seen to generate domestic benefits, but fall short in realizing global
impacts; it was seen as insufficient to address existing threats to critical areas of the highest
biodiversity and international conservation importance. Moreover, the baseline scenario was
inadequate to integrate biodiversity conservation on the broader landscape-level, which is
essential for long-term ecosystem management and biodiversity conservation. Under the baseline
scenario, total estimated expenditures were US$8.99m.
The GEF Alternative Scenario would build on the baseline by supporting incremental activities in
Project areas to help achieve global environmental benefits. The proposed alternative would
strengthen management capacity for biodiversity conservation by expanding protected area
management from small, strictly protected reserves, to broad, multi-purpose national parks. The
total estimated cost of the GEF alternative scenario was US$16.88m, of which incremental cost
was US$7.89m; of which US$5.0m would be GEF-financed. Although the analysis provided no
breakdown of other financing sources for baseline- and GEF-alternative scenario costs, it
appeared that the PHRD grant would finance the incremental cost balance, and the IDA credit for
the baseline scenario.
The GEF Alternative scenario was not realized. At Project closure, little of the US$0.93 million
of the GEF grant and US$2.76m of the PHRD grant had been disbursed (Table 1). Most of the
GEF grant funded Project management costs and some Component 1 costs. The PHRD grant
funded preparation of management plans, and village cluster investment and business plans for
Project areas, none of which could be implemented before Project closure. The Project did not
contribute to the baseline scenario, as indicated by scant funds expensed on Components 2 and 3.




                                               21
Table 1. Project costs


                           Project                IDA                 GEF                  PHRD                  GOA
    Component               Cost               Financing            Financing            Financing             Financing
                          (US$'000)            (US$'000)            (US$'000)            (US$'000)             (US$'000)


                      Appraisal            Appraisal            Appraisal            Appraisal            Appraisal
                                  Actual               Actual               Actual               Actual               Actual
                      Estimate             Estimate             Estimate             Estimate             Estimate


1. Protected Areas
establishment and       8.69       1.80      3.33      0.00       2.12      0.32       1.92      1.48       1.32      0.00
management

2. Community-level
investment in
                        4.48       0.49      3.15      0.00       0.91        0        0.40      0.49       0.03      0.00
agriculture and NR
management
3. Small enterprise
                        1.95       0.70      0.79      0.00       0.76        0        0.40      0.70       0.00      0.00
development
4. Project
management,
monitoring and          1.98       0.73      0.73      0.10       1.22      0.61       0.00      0.00       0.03      0.02
evaluation, and
communication
Total Project Costs    17.10       3.72      8.00       0.10      5.00       0.93      2.72       2.67      1.38       0.02




                                                       22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
             Names                              Title                Unit
Lending
 Konrad von Ritter            Team Leader                           ECSSD
 Philip Brylski               Team Leader                           ECSSD
Agi Kiss                      Team Leader                           ECSSD
Gulana Hajiyeva               Environmental Affairs Officer         ECSSD
Samir Suleymanov              Operations Officer                    ECSSD
Elmas Arisoy                  Procurement Specialist                ECSPS
Ida Njeri Muhoho              Financial Management Specialist       ECSPS
Junko Funahashi               Lawyer                                LEGEC
Nedret Durutan                Consultant                            ECSSD
Charis Wuerffel               Consultant                            ECSSD
Amy Evans                     Consultant                            ECSSD
Olaf Malver                   Consultant                            ECSSD
Murad Bagirzadeh              Consultant                            ECSSD
Gail Lee                      Task Assistant                        ECSSD

Supervision
Agnes I. Kiss                 Task Team Leader                      ECSSD
Mark Woodward                 Task Team Leader                      ECSSD
Doina Petrescu                Task Team Leader                      ECSS1
Andrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner   Sr Operations Officer                 OPCCS
Elmas Arisoy                  Lead Procurement Specialist           ECSPS
Gail Lee                      Program Assistant                     ECSSD
Gulana Enar Hajiyeva          Environmental Specialist              ECSS3
Helen Z. Shahriari            Sr. Social Scientist                  ECSS4
Ida N. Muhoho                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECSC3
Meeta Sehgal                  Operations Analyst                    ECSS1
Norpulat Daniyarov            Financial Management Specialist       ECSC3
Olaf Malver                   Consultant                            ECSSD
Paula F. Lytle                Sr. Social Development Specialist     ECSS4
Rohan G. Selvaratnam          Sr. Program Assistant                 ECSSD
Rohit R. Mehta                Sr. Finance Officer                   CTRFC
S. Nedret Durutan-Okan        Consultant                            ECSSD
Shahridan Faiez               Sr. Social Development Specialist     ECSS4
Yingwei Wu                    Sr. Procurement Specialist            ECSC2
Hannah M. Koilpillai          Sr. Finance Officer                   CTRFC
Valencia Copeland             Program Assistant                     ECSSD

ICR
Tijen Arin                    ICR Team Leader / Main Author         ECSS3
 Gulana Enar Hajiyeva         Environmental Specialist              ECSS3




                                               23
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY00                                      7.5                        37.6
 FY01                                     25.1                        61.2
 FY02                                     40.2                       125.0
 FY03                                     22.4                        43.3
 FY04                                     19.2                        76.5
 FY05                                     20.4                       113.3
                          Total:         134.8                       456.9
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                     12.0                        27.8
 FY07                                     19.3                        39.5
 FY08                                     16.8                        62.0
 FY09                                     25.5                        91.3
 FY10                                     26.5                        91.7
                          Total:         100.1                       312.3




                                       24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiary survey was not carried out.




                                            25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was not carried out.




                                              26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
This annex contains:
    (i) A summary of the Borrower's ICR, and
    (ii) The Borrower's comments on the draft ICR.


Summary of Borrower's ICR submitted electronically by PIU Manager on March 16, 2010
Introduction
The Implementation Completion Report provides an:
· Assessment of the Project objective, design and implementation experience.
· Evaluation of the borrower's performance during the implementation of the Project, with special
emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future.
· Evaluation of the performance by the Bank, the co-financiers and other partners during the
evolution and implementation of the Project, including the effectiveness of their relationships,
with special emphasis on lessons learned.
Assessment of the Project objective, design and implementation experience
Project Objectives
The overall Project development objective was to support restoration, protection and improved
management of economically and biologically important forests, meadows and pasture land,
much of which has become degraded through overuse. The main instrument for achieving this
was the establishment of Shahdag NP (SNP), enlargement of the territory of Ordubad NP (ONP)
and surrounding sanctuaries. Based on biodiversity, ecological, and economic criteria, the large,
mainly contiguous area of state-owned land in each Project area was divided into different types
of PAS, involving different management objectives and regimes. Over time, the objective is to
involve municipal and privately owned lands, through voluntary agreements with landowners to
manage their land under the national park or other PA. The longer-term objective was to promote
diversification of local economies, making them less dependent on mass consumption of natural
resources.
The Global Objective (GO) of the Project was to protect biodiversity in two globally significant
biodiversity areas within the Caucasus and Zangezur mountains, and introduce and pilot an
ecosystem-based approach for Protected Area (PA) management in Azerbaijan.
Key indicators for the PDO and GO were:
   · Establishment of SNP and enlargement of ONP;
   · Development and initial implementation of zoning and management plans for SDNP and
       ONP, following a participatory process;
   · Implementation of pilot community-based tree planting activities (covering 3000 ha by
       midterm, and 9,000 ha by the end of the Project) to assist local communities to meet their
       need for fuel wood and other wood products;
   · Adoption of more modern productive and sustainable livestock husbandry practices by at
       least 20 percent of households in 55 participating villages;
   · 150 or more environmentally friendly, financially sound, small and medium enterprises
       identified, initiated and publicized (all or most receiving small grants from the Project as
       part of their overall financing package);
   · Midterm and end-of-project surveys indicate significantly increased awareness,
       understanding, and support for multi-purpose national parks (and more broadly for
                                                27
        environmentally sustainable development and natural resource management) within the
        Project areas.
Project components
The Project area consisted of Shahdag and Ordubad areas, including: (i) state-owned lands that
expected to be included in the parks; (ii) state-owned pasture land to be included in other types
of PAs to be established around and adjacent to the national parks; and (iii) neighboring
municipal and private lands that may be incorporated into the parks in the future through
agreement with landowners.
The main instruments for achieving Project objectives was the establishment of the SNP and
enlarged ONP and the surrounding PA network, and associated assistance for community
economic development. The model of an ecologically coherent complex of different types of
PAS would provide a mechanism for coordinated ecological management, while meeting the
needs of local communities and other landowners and users.
Over time, it was anticipated that the area included within the national parks would increase,
through incorporation of high-priority state-owned land and through landowners agreeing to
include their land in the park through various contractual agreements. Local communities and
other stakeholders participated in the preparation of the park zoning and management plans and
in the preparation and implementation of a comprehensive and coordinated ecological
management plan covering the entire assemblage of PAS. The community development aspects
of the Project aimed to promote more sustainable livelihoods and economic activities in Project
areas. In the short term, the focus was on reducing pressure on natural resources and ecosystems
and mitigating potential negative socioeconomic impacts of increased restrictions on forest and
pasture use, by helping local communities to develop alternatives and to improve the
productivity and sustainability of their traditional economic activities, particularly livestock
husbandry.
COMPONENT 1. Protected Areas Establishment and Management (US$8.69 million):
This Component supported the establishment of SNP and expanded ONP, and adjacent PAS. A
three-phased process was envisaged for the creation of the parks:
        Phase 1: National parks are created on specified areas of state-owned lands, including
        existing SPNAs, all Forest Fund land and high elevation meadows of high biodiversity
        significance, most of which are not used for grazing. Total area of SDNP was expected to
        be 113,000ha; the territory of ONP was 12,131ha. In accordance with Azerbaijan law,
        these parks can contain core conservation zones and areas for limited economic activity
        and other services (e.g., tourism, park administration infrastructure);
        Phase 2: National parks are expanded through addition of some areas of state-owned
        pasture, identified based on their high biodiversity or ecological significance. Legislation
        would be amended as needed to make provisions for regulated grazing, resident and other
        economic uses in accordance with park management plans;
        Phase 3: National parks and PAS would be further expanded through incorporation of
        some areas of municipal or privately owned lands, without transfer of land ownership,
        based on voluntary agreements between park administrations and landowners. The main
        objectives were to reduce park fragmentation (e.g., incorporate lands that are enclaves
        within park boundaries), and increase local support for the park through direct
        participation in tourism development and other benefits.
Issuing of the legal instrument establishing the SNP was a condition of Project effectiveness; the
Resolution expanding ONP was expected to be issued prior to or soon after Project effectiveness.
Phase 2 was expected to begin by the second Project year, after completion of detailed forest and
pasture inventories and local consultations. Phase 3 could in principle proceed in parallel with
                                                28
Phase 2, but was likely to require considerable prior awareness raising, education, and
negotiation. Creation of the other PAS was proceeding in parallel with the creation of the
national parks, and was anticipated to be completed by the Project midterm.
The Project was to support measures to modernize and improve park management, restore
degraded areas, develop tourism, and increase stakeholder participation in park management.
The Project also aimed to improve sustainable management of biological resources in the other
PAS to be established in Project areas, through direct investment (as appropriate) and by creating
and supporting institutional structures and planning activities involving key stakeholders.
Specific activities to be financed under this Component included: delineation and demarcation
of park and other PA boundaries; technical assistance and training for institutional capacity
building; forest and meadow inventories, preparation of park zoning and management plans and
annual operating plans; implementation of management plans, including reforestation in high
priority areas, rehabilitation and limited construction of critical infrastructure for park
management and tourism, and provision of essential equipment; implementation of an ecological
monitoring system; and incremental operating costs.
COMPONENT 2. Community-level investment in sustainable agriculture and natural
resource management (US$4.48 million): This Component was to assist residents of 55 villages
inside or immediately adjacent to the two national parks and surrounding PAs to shift their
traditional agricultural and natural resource use practices towards more modern and efficient
approaches that place less pressure on natural resources and ecosystems. The focus was on
promoting a shift away from low-value livestock husbandry primarily based on grazing in
vulnerable high-elevation pastures, to more intensive and productive methods based on fodder
production. Through advice and technical assistance, communities would develop village
investment plans, drawing upon a menu of options (seeds, fertilizers, agricultural equipment,
small scale irrigation, milk collection and storage facilities, artificial insemination services,
fencing material for pasture management, etc.).
COMPONENT 3. Rural Enterprise Development (US$1.95 million): Component 3 aims were
to stimulate economic diversification in Project areas by assisting local entrepreneurs to start or
expand environmentally sustainable small and medium commercial enterprises.
The Project would fund small mobile business advisory teams to help interested clients identify
and assess the viability of commercial ventures and prepare business plans. There were plans to
provide matching grants (ca. US$2,000-US$10,000) for start-up or expansion of small or medium
enterprises, based on independent evaluation of the business plans. Normally, the grant could
support up to 60 percent of total project cost, with the grantee responsible for contributing the
remaining 40 percent in cash. It was decided that priority should be given to activities linked to
national park objectives (including tourism-related enterprises, alternative energy, and energy
efficiency, and value-added processing of sustainable harvested natural products such as fruits,
nuts, and medicinal plants) and enterprises that support Component 2 objectives (e.g., value-
added dairy products). Following technical and financial evaluation by a contracted Grants
Administrator and PIU, grants could be approved by an Awarding Committee comprised of
representatives of the Ministries of Ecology and Natural Resources; Agriculture; Culture and
Tourism; Finance; and Economic Development.
COMPONENT 4. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Communications
(US$1.98 million): This component would support overall Project management and
administration, including the staffing and operating costs of a central Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) and three field offices (Project Coordination Units, PCU): two in the SNP area, one in the
Ordubad area. The branch offices were needed because of the size, remoteness, difficulty of
access, and poor communications infrastructure of Project areas. This Component also included
cross-cutting activities such as: Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E); development and
implementation of a communications plan (in collaboration with local authorities and NGOs) to
                                                29
increase awareness and knowledge of the Project and its objectives and activities at all levels;
detailed socio-economic studies to improve targeting of project benefits.
Implementation phase
Implementation of effectiveness conditions
According to agreements in order to begin implementation of AZREP, the Government of
Azerbaijan should fulfill following effectiveness conditions:
Condition: Opening of Project Account for the Project by Borrower.
Implementation: With agreement of the Ministry of Finance, a Project Account for the Rural
Environment Project was opened in October 2006 and initial deposit in AZN equivalent of
US$50,000 was placed in the account of International Bank of Azerbaijan.


Condition: Development of Project Implementation Manual.
Implementation: A Project Implementation Manual for Rural Environment Project, acceptable
for World Bank has been finalized and approved by the Ministry of Ecology and Natural
Resources of the Republic of Azerbaijan.


Condition: Issuing of the legal instrument for SDNP establishing
Implementation: By the Presidential Decree        1814 from 8 December 2006, Shahdag National
Park was established on the territories of Pirgulu and Ismailly State Nature Reserves (21014
hectares), State Forest Fund lands of Gusar, Guba, Shamakhi, Ismailly, Gebele and Oguz Rayons
(81,797 hectares) and high elevation meadows of high biodiversity, which are not used for
grazing (13,084 hectares) in total 115,895 hectares.
Implementation of COMPONENT 1
Shahdag National Park's Charter was approved by Presidential Decree, dated on 19 November
2008. With regard to the implementation of the Presidential Decree about the establishment of
Shahdag National Park, staff list and structure of the national park was approved by the Order of
the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources. MENR applied to the Cabinet of Ministers for
the expansion of Shahdag National Park and establishment of Shahdag State Nature Sanctuary.
Director of SNP was appointed by MENR in July 2009. For appointment of experienced staff for
SNP MENR issued an advertisement in local newspaper and Website, provided examinations
and completion of appointment of SNP. The territory of Ordubad National Park was expanded to
42,797.4 hectares by Presidential Decree, dated 25 November 2009. Current name of Ordubad
National Park is Zangezur National Park.
Adoption of the legislative amendments for the national parks. The Project supported
preparation of changes/amendments to legislation aimed at creating regulatory basis for
incorporation of agricultural areas, private and municipal lands into protected areas, and
specif cally, into the territory of Shahdag and Ordubad NPs areas. For this purpose, international
and national legal experts were contracted. Appropriate amendments were prepared in the Law on
Specially Protected Natural Areas and Objects; Cabinet of Ministers applied to the President
Administration of the Republic of Azerbaijan for approval in a letter dated 22 July 2009.
Provision of relevant data and topographic maps to the ministry of Ecology by the State
Committee of Land and Cartography. Facing a need in various scaled topographical maps
(1:25000, 1:50000 and 1:100000), aerial photography and satellite images for the preparation of
biodiversity, forestry and highland pasture inventories and zoning of national park areas in the
SNP and ONP Project areas, Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources obtained requested

                                               30
maps. These maps were used by international and local experts to prepare management plans and
zoning for national parks.
Determination of the scope of work for the consultancy on design of national park
infrastructure and submission of revised list of equipment to be purchased for national
parks. Determination of scope of services for design and supervision of park infrastructure for
SNP and ONP was conducted and the necessary list of equipment was submitted to the World
Bank.
Preparation of management plans and providing zoning for national parks. PIU Team
Company implementing "Capacity Building, Inventory and Management Planning of NPs"
prepared management plans for both NPs by using Landsat satellite images and submitted to PIU
in December 2009. Preparation of management plans and providing of zoning of the territories
was implemented in a participatory manner. IUCN guidelines were used during development of
management plans. It was possible to complete all issues and tasks under Component 1 indicated
in PAD and PIM during 2010. These issues are:
    a) Implementation of management plans, management plans for both NPs were ready and
    implementation phase was possible to complete in 2010;
    b) Reforestation in high priority areas, these areas were identified by PIU Team Company
    together with MENR specialists at the end of 2009,
    c) Rehabilitation and limited construction of critical infrastructure for park management
        and tourism,
    d) PIU sent appropriate information (October 2009) to World Bank that Evaluation Process
    for Design and Supervision of Infrastructure for National Park was finalized and contract
    was ready for signature, but World Bank Task Team Leader suggested waiting; for this
    reason the contract was not signed. Implementation of these works (design and infrastructure
    construction) also was possible during 2010.
    e) Provision of essential equipment; List of equipment was submitted to the World Bank in
    2009 and this equipment could have been in place by April-May 2010.
MENR and PIU were sure of this and sent a letter to World Bank in November 2009 requesting
Project extension; unfortunately the Project was not extended and some tasks and issues under
Component 1 remained unfulfilled.
Implementation of COMPONENT 2
During Project implementation, site visits to 40 villages in Shahdag region (Guba, Gusar,
Ismayilli and Shamakhi) and 15 villages in Ordubad and Shahbuz regions of Nakhchivan AR data
were collected on the geographic, economic and social structure of the regions.
This database covered all Project villages, including detailed information on demographics
(population, age distribution, migration), economics (average household income, ownerships,
production, productivity, employment, economic sectors), social characteristics (education,
health, gender) and statistics, infrastructure, climatic conditions and tourism potential.
For investments, ideas were developed and are indicated below:
       Establishing an agricultural machinery service center with relevant machinery and
       equipment to support agricultural crop, fruit and vegetable production, providing forage
       reserve for livestock;
       Establishing a milk collecting and a storage center with cooling facility, which is
       essential for sustainable marketing;
       Establishing a mineral water processing and bottling center;
       Establishing a small-scale fruit and canned food processing center to improve orchard-
       based agricultural activities;

                                              31
        Establishing a jam and honey processing center to improve orchard-based agricultural
        activities;
        Establishing an artificial insemination service center to increase livestock quality and
        support herd owners by providing modern equipment;
        Improving the quality of pastures to support agricultural crops;
        Establishment of wool collection, storage and initial processing center;
        Organizing sales of quality fodder and development of access to markets;
        Establishing a small-scale bread baking center;
        Establishing an integrated meat processing center;
        Establishing a tourism center.
The PIU took into consideration all these issues during preparation of conception plans and also
investment plans. After continuing visits to these villages 15 investment plans were finalized.
Community members were active in focus group discussions, understood the aim of the Project
very well, and were able to finalize their needs.
During the studies it was identified that the infrastructure of most villages is poor and must be
improved. Most roads, especially within villages are in poor condition, creating obstacles for
local people to access markets and sell their products. Besides Project villages of Ordubad area,
local people in other villages do not have the chance to use gas for heating, and so they use
electricity and wood. Sewage systems and garbage collection are unavaliable in all cluster
villages; telecommunication facilities are unavaliable only in elevated mountaneous areas.
It should be mentioned that local residents of Project villages were very active, innovative, and
eager to participate in development of their community. Regarding income sources among local
people in target villages include livestock activities (cattle and sheep breeding); vegetable
production (mainly potatoes); fruit growing; other agricultural activities such as apiculture and
poultry; tourism activities; other sources (salaries, pension, subsidizes etc.).
Finally PIU received Investment Plans of 15 Village Clusters in the beginning of December
2009.
Each VC Investment Plan consists of seven sections:
    1) Information about Village Cluster: Location, general information, socio-economic
    characteristics, physical characteristics, infrastructure, climate, natural resources and
    agricultural characteristics of the village cluster.
    2) Investment Decisions: Detailed description of final investment decisions for village
    cluster.
    3) Investment Details: Budget, investment implementation and procurement plan;
    environmental issues and safeguards are identified.
    4) Implementing Agency
    5) Monitoring by the Community: Supplies questions and answers for the following: (1)
    How will the community monitor the implementation? (2) How will the community measure
    the intended impact?
    6) Descriptions of Operations after Investment Phase: Topics related to management and
    forecasts for incomes/expenditures and profits/losses take place.
    7) Signatures: Demonstrates VCC members agreement to propose the investment projects
    explained in the VCIP.

VCC members and VCPT arrived at consensus on five main investment ideas to be established
within the Project: Agricultural Machinery Service Centers: Artificial Insemination Service
Centers: Milk Collection and Storage Centers: Jam and Honey Processing Centers: Fruit
and Vegetable Drying and Storage Centers.


                                               32
The PIU established a Committee in each Project area for the approval of investment plans. If the
Project had been extended, all these investment plans could have been realized during 2010. All
community members, local authorities, and municipality representatives showed willingness to
participate in these activities.
Implementation of COMPONENT 3
As part of the Rural Environment Project, the Rural Enterprise Development Component was
anticipated to stimulate economic diversification in Project areas by encouraging, facilitating, and
assisting local entrepreneurs to start and expand environmentally sustainable small and medium
commercial enterprises through preparing high quality grant proposals.
As the most important output of PANAP studies, the PIU established a database covering all
Project villages, including detailed information on demographics (population, age distribution,
migration), economic (average household income, ownerships, production, productivity,
employment, economic sectors), social characteristics (education, health, gender) and statistics
and infrastructure, climatic conditions, and tourism potential.
The Project outcomes were expected to provide support to local entrepreneurs to start up or
expand small businesses to demonstrate possibilities for environmentally friendly small and
medium size business development and initiate small and medium size trading activities in the
selected villages within the project areas through business advisory services. In this regard, the
Project could encourage investments on rural enterprises, cultural activities, ecotourism, and
endeavors in value-added processing of more abundant natural resources.
Examples of projects that would be eligible for grant financing are as follows:
· Small-scale processing facilities for food/medicinal goods (e.g., milk, cheese, fruits, honey,
berries and nuts, medicinal plants);
· Ecological restoration activity;
· Bee-keeping;
· Organic farming;
· Cultivation of valuable genetic species, including ancestors of wild species;
· Soil protective activity (forest belts planting and turf),
· Renewable energy usage for melioration;
· Implementation of modern grazing techniques;
· Traditional handicraft activities;
· Development of nature tourism and home-stay activities in the national parks area;
· Plantation of perennial crops, especially berries, nuts and orchards;
· Fuel efficient stoves and alternative energy.
The PIU extended information on the Rural Environment Project in general and in particular on
the Business Advisory Services Component, including, grant priorities, eligible activities for
grant applications, grant minimum and maximum amounts, and financing ratios for grants and
entrepreneur resources.
Public awareness materials were developed and distributed during the implementation.
Website. A Website was prepared and launched with interactive features to extend information
on Business Advisory Services. The Website was maintained and updated during Project
implementation. The address of the Website is: http://www.rur-dev.org
Number of the Business Plans developed by rural entrepreneurs was 202.
Interests of the rural entrepreneurs in fields of economic activities briefly explained below.
Beekeeping. In almost every village, people demonstrated great interest in beekeeping, and in
some cases, processing honey.


                                                 33
Orchards. In Ordubad and Shahbuz regions, where villagers enjoy suitable climatic conditions
and own enough land, there is broad interest in growing fruit, particularly apple and cherry
orchards.
Small Ruminant Breeding. Especially in ONP, villagers are willing to breed high-yield sheep
and goats. Short-term animal husbandry experts were employed to investigate the most
appropriate breed for the region--environmentally friendly and suitable for the climatic
conditions of high, mountainous regions.
Cattle Fattening. In Shahdag, Quba, Ismayilli, Shamax regions, most villagers developed cattle-
fattening business plans. Taking into consideration regional geographic and climatic conditions
concomitant with other reasons explained in the next section, it seems the most appropriate
environment friendly business investment that can be developed is to encourage villagers for high
-yield cattle fattening and train them in feeding practices.
Fisheries. In ONP, some villagers show interest in investing in fish ponds, which was supported
by local authorities.
Tourism. Villagers showed little interest in investing in tourism, although there was some
interest among villagers in SDNP, especially in Qusar and Ismayilli region, business ideas in
tourism seem to be gaining interest, followed by Shamax and Quba.
Fodder Crop Yielding. Very little interest exists in investing in fodder crop yielding. The only
project developed for fodder crop farming is at Shamaxi region. A rural entrepreneur at Demirchi
village of the Shamaxi was interested to invest in fodder crop yielding business.
Small Agricultural Machinery & Equipment. The interest in investment in small agricultural
machinery and equipment for rural entrepreneurs was not extensive, only four rural entrepreneurs
prepared business plans to invest in small agricultural machinery and equipment, at Ismayilli,
Quba and Qusar regions.
Artificial Insemination. Very little interest exists in investing in artificial insemination. The only
project developed for artificial insemination is at Ordubad region.
Small Size Trading. Very little interest exists in investing in Small Size Trading. Only one rural
entrepreneur at Taglabiyan village of smayilli district developed a business plan on small
trading. The PIU established a Committee in each project area to approve business plans. The
Grand Administrator organization was also selected. If the Project had been extended, most
business plans could have been realized during next two years (by 2011).
Community members were very interested in increasing their business and entrepreneur activities.
Implementation of COMPONENT 4
Project Management. The Project Implementation Unit was established and mainly staffed
before the Project effectiveness and, during the Project life, provided effective technical
leadership and efficient project administration. The structure of the PIU remained unchanged,
except for the procurement specialist, who left in the first Project year; her tasks were assumed by
other PIU specialists. Nevertheless key PIU staff were in place at the beginning of 2009.
The Borrower has fulfilled its obligations with respect to Project monitoring and evaluation. The
TORs for the socio-economic study were prepared in the PIU and submitted to the World Bank
for review and approval in August 2009. But the PIU did not receive any comments from the
Bank and so it was not possible to complete the tasks in time.
Financial Management. The Project financial management (FM) is satisfactory. The PIU has
developed FM software tailored for the Project needs, with adequate security levels and its
outputs were used to prepare quarterly Project financial monitoring reports. The system is
flexible. The project team uses a comprehensive set of accounting policies and internal control
procedures in accordance with Azerbaijan legislation and the Project FM requirements. The
Project FM procedures manual has been subject to periodic updates and regular reviews by the

                                                 34
Bank. The PIU FM activity has been annually audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the
Bank.
Procurement.
Performance of procurement
Overall MENR implemented components (Component 1, Component 2, Component 3 and
Component 4) 26 contracts were signed, out of which:
   ¾ for goods: 4 contracts (4 Shopping); and
   ¾ for services: 22 contracts (3 QCBS, 4 CQS, 1 LCS and 14 ICs).
The above-mentioned contracts are distributed for each Project component as follows:
   Contracts for Protected Areas Establishment and Management Component (Component 1):
   ¾ 1 QCBS for Capacity Building, Inventory and Management Planning of NPs;
   ¾ 2 CQSs for TA to establish legal and regulatory framework for SDNP and ONP, PIU
      Team to determine the scope of services for design and supervision of park
      infrastructure for SDNP and ONP;
   ¾ 1 IC for Legislative amendments (National Legal Expert)
Contracts for the Community-level investment in sustainable agriculture and natural resource
management Component (Component 2):
   ¾ 2 QCBSs for Preparation of Village Development Plans for Village Clusters;
   ¾ 1 CQSs for Public awareness programs for SDNP and ONP;
Contracts for the Rural Enterprise Development Component (Component 3):
   ¾ 1 QCBS for Business Advisory Services;
Contracts for the Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Communications
Component (Component 4):
   ¾ 4 Shopping for Vehicles for PIU, Vehicles for PCU, Office, computer and audio-visual
     equipment for PIU and PCU, Furniture for PIU and PCU;
   ¾ 2 CQSs for Customization of accounting system 1C, Project Launch Workshops ;
   ¾ 1 LCS for Project Audit;
   ¾ 14 ICs for PIU Teams on financial management, component management, procurement,
     assistants and for coordinating component activities.




                                              35
Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR


The draft ICR was submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers on May 31, 2010. The MENR comments
were received in an official letter dated June 12, 2010.



#4/1258-02-04                                                          June 12, 2010

To: Michel Mordasini
Executive Director for Azerbaijan
World Bank

Dear Mr. Mordasini,

Please find attached the comments of Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources on draft
Implementation Completion and Results Report on Rural Environment Project completed on
December 21, 2009 submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan under the
World Bank's cover letter #REF/WB/AZ//10 dated May 31, 2010.

Enclosure: 11 pages

Sincerely,

F. Aliyev
Deputy Minister




                                              36
  Comments of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources on the World Bank's
   draft Implementation Completion and Results Report on Rural Environment Project

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Page 13, paragraph 2.
Although Azerbaijan's overall economy was improving due to oil sector development, most
mountain inhabitants still fell under the poverty line of US$24 per month.
Comment:
This is absolutely wrong. Azerbaijan's economy does not exclusively depend on oil sector.
Placing such an absurd information, as $24 worth income of mountain inhabitants, on the World
Bank's website by its inclusion in the report is unacceptable. Thus, only in 2005 (at the time of
Project Negotiations), based on Azerbaijan's macroeconomic indicators Per Capita Income
equaled 928AZN.


2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
Project background analysis
During Project preparation, the Bank team identified private dwellings in the Pirgulu Strict
Nature Reserve in areas anticipated to become part of the SDNP core strict-protection zone.
Although Government counterparts assured the team that these areas would become enclaves, this
issue became controversial when the SCLU identified these dwellings as they were preparing
SDNP maps to meet Project effectiveness conditions. Ultimately, the agencies reached agreement
that the dwellings constitute enclaves, but the process delayed Project effectiveness.
Comment:
This may only include agricultural enclave territories, for which the title was mistakenly
transferred to citizens during the land reform, but existence of any dwellings is not true.


Soundness of Project Desing.
During Project preparation, the MENR appeared to be in full agreement with Project concept and
objectives, and formally approved the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), but in hindsight,
Ministry commitment to the Project appears questionable. Furthermore MENR leadership and
capacity to implement participatory multi-zone ecosystem conservation planning was extremely
weak. Implementation suffered from inadequate MENR capacity and championship for the
Project.
Comment:
There are no grounds to question the Ministry's commitment to Rural Environment Project and
this comes from the report authors' to willingness to misrepresent facts. Thus, during the
Negotiations on project approval between the World Bank and the Government of Azerbaijan,
Ministry was actively engaged in land allocation process to Shahdagh National Park. We insist
that the Bank's position on this matter is totally not understandable.
We certainly do not agree with the statement by the report's author that "MENR leadership and
capacity to implement participatory multi-zone ecosystem conservation planning was extremely
weak" and would like to advise, that from the very beginning Ministry paid special attention to
multi-zone ecosystem approach and it was evidenced by the establishment of two national parks
and increasing their number to 8 in short time, as well as increasing total strictly protected natural

                                                 37
areas from 4,5% to 10,1% of total area of the country. There are ongoing successful efforts in this
area, including:
        Zoning of national parks
        Ongoing efforts on ecotourism promotion in national parks, projects to support
        communities in surrounding areas.


Page 17, paragraph 4
In hindsight, significant delays in preparing procurement documents managed to derail the
implementation schedule to a degree that made the investments in all three Components
impossible.
Comment:
1,5 year delay arising from Project Effectiveness Conditions insisted on by the Bank during the
Negotiations resulted in delayed Project implementation. The World Bank itself is aware that, late
finalization of complicated negotiations of its team with the separate ministries resulted in
delayed completion of TORs and procurements in accordance with the Bank's guidelines and
procedures. Refusal of the Bank to grant project extension without any serious reason, in
circumstances when full conditions and foundation was provided to make component
investments, lead to suspension of operations and non-occurrence of investments.


Identification of risks and mitigation measures.
Azerbaijan in general and MENR in particular had few professionals trained in modern PA
management.
Comment:
In certain parts of the Report Ministry's weak capacity is mentioned, and in other place it
mentioned that it has professionals on modern PA management and bringing fully conflicting
statements comes from willingness to hold the Ministry liable in unfair way. We hope that the
representatives of the World Bank understand that this is unacceptable.


Page 19, paragraph3
Even minor conflicts could not be resolved between the MENR and other government agencies
whose input was needed for the Project; for example, the conflict arising from the SCLU request
that its staff preparing national park maps be paid from Project proceeds contributed to delays in
the effectiveness condition.
Page 19, paragraph 5 (2.2 Implementation)
The disagreement on SCLU compensation for generating national park maps was not resolved
until winter 2005. By then, severe weather prevented staff from carrying out fieldwork; later,
there were lengthy approval procedures for the maps. A disbursement condition under
Component 1 was Government approval of an SDPN Charter acceptable to the Bank, for goods
and works; this approval took another year until December 2006 because the Ministry of
Agriculture strongly opposed including private and municipal land in the national park.
Comment:
MENR, together with the World Bank defended the idea of adding new areas to the national
parks in discussions with the State Committee on Land Use and Cartography Committee (SCLU)
                                                38
and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the World Bank blames the Ministry, as the issue had not
been achieved.
If the authors of the report approach fairly and recall their own participation, the World Bank and
MENR representatives had numerous discussions with SCLU and MOA and these discussions
touched upon important issues, not insignificant ones. Of course, we accept that, MOA and even
SCLU, which is responsible for manufacturing process does not encourage inclusion of land used
for manufacturing purposes under protected areas. This matter is subject to discussions around the
globe, and even in developed Western Countries. The logic of not limiting establishment of
National Parks with national resources, but doing it with the support of large and likely
experienced institution as the World Bank is to use this expertise to complete such inevitable
discussions to the benefit of sustainable growth and environment. If this was not possible,
representing this as minor conflicts of the Ministry with others and such blaming MENR is not
even compromising the reality, but is an attempt of misrepresentation. Coming to the issue of
salaries to SCLU, this matter is not related to MENR, thus not being is subject to any conflicts
with MENR, it was requested by SCLU from the World Bank and whether the Bank resolved the
matter quickly, or considering it unjustified decided not accept this request, thus causing delays,
or decided to pay salaries, this is the Bank's business. MENR did not and would not interfere in
this process. MENR is even not aware on cases when Bank reaches the compromise and when
not.


Page 20, paragraph 1
Understaffing resulted primarily from PIU consultant compensation levels being capped at 20-50
percent lower than in other PIUs; but also some consultant selections and contract awards were
held up and reversed, and the PIU Director was diverted from Project activities to other task
assignments. The SDNP was not fully staffed until very late in the Project, and during
implementation, MENR often balked at supporting local communities.
Comment:
This is also an obvious example of non-objective, and almost prejudged approach of the report's
authors, as PIU salaries are established and paid directly by the Bank. MENR neither had
funding, nor a decisive vote in this matter. Bank, being aware of salaries in PIUs in Azerbaijan,
set low salaries in Project's budget documentation submitted to the Government. "Some
consultant selections and contract awards were held up and reversed" is absolutely wrong and
insinuating and is not justified with any fact. Duties of PIU director, other than project
implementation included mutual consultations with the Ministry's staff. Statement on balking at
supporting local communities is absolutely absurd. Open exchange of opinions by the Ministry in
technical discussions with the Bank to increase the Project's soundness was presented as the
Ministry's failure. Views expressed by the Ministry to the Bank that investments in dairy and
livestock activities under community support within Components 2 and 3 will lead to large
increase of livestock activities in project areas, intensified use of pastures and increased adverse
impact on environment, has been presented by the Bank as general barriers for Project
implementation. The interesting fact, is that, the World Bank, in contradiction to the above
statement, notes the following on page 33 of the report (Annex 2, Outputs by Components): "The
PIU and MENR disagreed with this assessment and maintained that outstanding activities could
have been completed in 2010, if the Bank had granted an extension"
MENR still believes, that taking into account the support provided by the communities, project
could be implemented successfully. The World Bank is well aware that the Ministry closely
worked with the communities and at the same time saw their troubles, arising from their lack of
experience. At the same time, projects supporting local communities shall draw on green


                                                39
thinking. Despite this, the Ministry, which expressed this opinion, never balked at any project.
This view was rudely misrepresented by the World Bank's expert.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Procurement
Page 23, paragraph 2
The selection of individual PIU consultants, including a Procurement Specialist, experienced
significant delays, due to (i) caps on PIU consultant compensation levels and (ii) slow TORs
clearance by MENR. Several candidates were rejected on the grounds that they were
unsatisfactory because they had, for example, worked in several PIUs, or appeared to be
uncommitted to environmental protection, criteria that were not included in the TORs.
After repeated failures to identify suitable PIU consultants, MENR proposed that staff take a
leave of absence to work in the PIU and be compensated from Project proceeds, which would
help build MENR capacity. The Bank rejected this proposal...
Comment:
As already mentioned above, level and financing source of salaries to PIU consultants fully
depend on the Bank's decision and approach. In addition, MENR never rejected the decisions of
evaluation commission established by the PIU on staff selection based on announcements for
consultant selection.
The Ministry, simply, expressed its concerns, wishes and recommendations during the
discussions on this matter with the World Bank. MENR still believes, that in environmental
projects preference shall be given to people related to the environment and to express this view
the Ministry did not specifically approach the World Bank or the PIU. Instead, the Ministry
expressed its views in response to the requests of the World Bank team in its meetings with the
Ministry's management.
There were no any active interventions or resistance during process implementation
(unfortunately, in this situation views expressed by the Ministry in discussions are represented in
the World Bank's report as a ground to blame the Ministry).
It's evident, that despite the World Bank's representatives in some cases describe the Ministry's
role as weak (looks like, in this case to criticize they need to show its role as weak), or in some
cases, overestimate and represent it as overly proactive (again, to have grounds to criticize), in
reality all matters were addressed in accordance with the World Bank's decisions. The Ministry
during its meeting with the Bank's team informed the Bank on importance of hiring people with
relevant qualifications and experience to staff management of Project components on national
parks and protected areas and suggested to hire some of the Ministry's staff to the PIU on
temporary basis to fill the gap in staffing. This recommendation, given as a way to address the
situation was not accepted by the World Bank and the Ministry accepted it without turning this
into tragedy.
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Page 24, paragraph 1
MENR prides itself on having increased the area under protection to 18 percent of Azerbaijan's
total land area through creating eight national parks, four nature reserves, and four nature
sanctuaries, and expanding six sanctuaries and two national parks since 2003. However, it is
unclear whether MENR fully embraces the concept of ecosystem-based, multi-use nature
conservation; instead, the emphasis appears to be on strict protection.

                                                40
Comment:
We totally reject this irrelevant sarcasm of the World Bank's representative and we are really
proud. First of all, despite that there is still a significant room for establishment of protection
arrangements in specially protected areas, simply securing their legal status, in the country with
fast privatization process, will at least definitely ensure bioconservation of certain areas for future
generations as a result of environmental protection activities. Second, MENR, which is criticized
in this report, already introduced the multi-zonal approach in national parks established at the
same time with the support of individual international organizations and NGOs (the irony is that
it was easier to accomplish without the World Bank's support). Currently such activities are being
completed for Goy-Gol NP, Shirvan NP and Hirkan NP and with respect to Zagatala reserve,
which is criticized in the report, relevant activities are undertaken together with Germany's
Economic Cooperation and Development Ministry and KfW Development Bank to introduce
multi-zonal approach.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Page 27, paragraph 4
Inter-agency conflicts, such as the State Committee on Land Use and Cartography, were
protracted rather than resolved cooperatively, which might have indicated lack of commitment.
Comment:
The meaning of this statement certainly does not reflect the reality. As mentioned earlier, this
issue totally depended on Bank and while the Bank had to act in view of cooperation and
substance of the problem, it resulted in protracted negotiations and consecutive delays. In fact, the
Ministry had to engage in lengthy communication with SCLU to resolve the issues requested by
the World Bank. Besides troubled communication with SCLU and MOA to meet some absurd
requirements of the World Bank, in general Ministry has normal relationship with this
organizations.

Paragraph 5 (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
MENR performance appears to be a main factor leading to poor Project outcomes. MENR
intervention in procurement processes led to delays; offering lower-than-market rates for PIU
consultants prevented recruitment of skilled professionals for key positions. The PIU Manager's
attention was often diverted to non-Project-related assignments, exacerbating the effects of PIU
understaffing, and further delaying implementation. Conflicts with other government agencies led
to significant delays. Low technical capacity among MENR staff, limited contribution to Project
implementation, and prolonged reviews of technical materials also delayed Project
implementation. In addition, already-limited staff capacity was severely overextended because
MENR was simultaneously implementing multiple Projects.
Comment:
Unfortunately, there were no signle person in the World Bank's team working on the project from
the very beginning through completion. As result, persons joining the Project on various stages,
not emphatyzing and causing troubles were worried only about one thing: how to escape liability.
If that is not the case, then report authors would not forget to mentione, that despite all efforts
made on our part together with the World Bank's team, conditions for implementation of
Components 2 and 3 were established very late (late 2008), after adoption of National Park status,
boundaries and by-laws in accordance with Component 1 requirements, resulting from "minor
conflicts of the Ministry with other other government agencies" (which is absolutely not true)
and, in reality, from complicated discussions and negotiations with participation and direct

                                                  41
interference of the World Bank's numerous experts. Thus actual                conditions enabling
implementation of Components 2 and 3 were established in 2009 only.
We once more repeat, that in the same period, i.e. in 2005-09 MENR achieved establishment of
another threee National Parks, without the World Bank's involvement. Thus, let us, putting it
mildly, strongly reject your prejudged statement, that "MENR performance appears to be a main
factor leading to poor Project outcomes" and call you to reconsider this issue once more and to be
more unpretentious and self-critical.
MENR's interference in procurement process was impossible and this should be clear firstly to
the World Bank, as tender procedures implemented by PIU were in compliance with the World
Bank's and Azerbaijan's procurement legislation and procedures.
If the matter in question is the procurement of map, then it became known to the Ministry's
representative, that one of the bidders in map procurement made a dishonest attempt to participate
in the Ministry's other tender. Discovering such information is the duty of the members of
Evaluation Commission and they did it. It shall be noted, that members of Evaluation
Commission included representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economic
Development and they had a powers to influence this process.
The interesting fact is that this company, already having behaved as a winner, tried to influence
the PIU and Evaluation Commission, even to threaten and blackmail and attempting to break the
tender procedure and unfortunately, judging by the World Bank's negative attitude, this blackmail
effort was successful. As a result, bringing a statement without examining this process, which
was left uncompleted, generates many questions.
Coming to the weak capacity of the Ministry we would like to draw attention to the following
contradicting statement of the report's authors: "Azerbaijan in general and MENR in particular
had few professionals trained in modern PA management", page 19, paragraph 2.
The Ministry reviewed the TORs mainly for Component 1 from environmental and biodiversity
points of view and expressed its views. The World Bank sometimes mentions the Ministry's
week commitment to the Project and sometimes mentions its interventions and it is completely
non-understandable. In addition, in section on implementing agency's performance (in this case,
MENR is implementing agency) offering salaries lower than market level to PIU consultants is
presented as MENR's fault and this, at least, unfair, incompetent and prejudged. It's commonly
known fact, that Project budget allocation, as well as level of the salaries to PIU staff is
established by the World Bank. Coming to the statement, that "PIU Manager's attention was
often diverted to non-Project-related assignments", which is repeated in various sections of the
report, please be advised, that Ministry did not establish any activities on international projects
jointly implemented with EU, German Development Bank, except general consultations with PIU
and, at the same time, the Bank could you its power to evaluate the activities of PIU causing
delays in implementation and take relevant measures.
In general, one of main reasons of the Bank's dissatisfaction is the Ministry's attitude in respect
of PIU. In fact, this matter has been discussed with the World Bank. The Ministry's attitude was
to not interfere, but to be informed on substance of matters, for which it's considered an owner.
Not being able to impact, participation of the Ministry as responsible in these matters does not fit
any logic.
Back in 2001, when the Minstry was newly established, former PIU manager came to the
Ministry with the set of documents, requesting the signature. When asked questions about these
documents he answered: "This is the World Bank's business and does not concern you, you just
simply need to put a signature". Naturally, the Ministry rejected to approve subject
documentation. On the next day, in addition to pressures on the Ministry from other sources, as
well as from the World Bank, the PIU staff expressed their attitude using very extraordinary
method. PIU staff, including its procurement manager and others opened "Jihad" named websites
                                                42
directed against the Ministry. This occured 2-3 months after the Ministry's establishment. The
Ministry even did not have a chance to committ a "sin". It's interesting, who advised the PIU to
announce a Jihad against the Ministry? Which interests of these persons were affected by the
Ministry? Do the report's authors consider such attitude exemplary?
6. Lessons Learned
Adding the following sentence to this section of the World Bank's report would reflect the
reality: "Never be frank in discussions with the World Bank, don't discuss you concerns, as
the Bank in its reports will turn your concerns into blames against you"
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1: Protected Area Establishment and Management
Furthermore, the final Bank supervision mission assessed that the "pastures" being added to the
SDNP had no particular significance for biodiversity protection or ecological functions (erosion
control, ecological restoration, migration corridors, etc.) as indicated at Project appraisal. Instead,
they were the highest-elevation grazing areas on marginal lands, often just exposed rock with
limited vegetation, that were not being leased for grazing domestic animals by the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Bank team questioned the value of these lands for biodiversity conservation
when compared to the overall distribution of available pasture lands in the SDNP Project area.
However, MENR disagreed with this assessment.
Comment:
The World Bank, having blamed the Ministry in minor conflicts with other Ministries, here
admits that discussions were carried on significant matters. At the same time, high elevaton areas
included in SDNP and mentioned by the Bank as "inadequate" are the sole place in Greater
Caucasus, which both has rich biodiversity, and at the same time had lower exposure to intensive
grazing and other man-made impact. At the same time, inclusion of these areas under the national
park area partially decreased the park's fragmentation and resulted in establishment of ecosystem.
It should be noted, that conservation of these areas allowed herd expansion for mountain goats,
and other animals typical for these areas. A number of experts notes, that the area was taken
under protection in very short term and this will play critical role in saving a number of species.
There are ongoing efforts to use these areas for grazing. From this point of view, the fact, that the
World Bank relied on the opinion of the expert who had provided wrong opinion, without really
studying situation on the ground and reflecting such opinion in the report is disappointing.
Besides, in the course of Project negotiations held back in 2005 between the World Bank and the
first Deputy Prime Minister A.Abbasov, only MENR definitely supported the idea of expansion
of the National Park area through incorporation of other summer pastures, with rich biodiversity
located in the project area and the World Bank, having agreed to 3 stage expansion of the
National Park area to reach a compromise, supported the idea of expansion of National Park area
through incorporation of of forests, protected areas and highlands.

Paragraph 4
However, technical background data were never made available to the international consultants,
and could not be covered by rapid ecological assessments; other data never became available, for
example, on the broad picture of wildlife winter and summer ranges and the interaction between
wild and domesticated animals.
Comment:
If the Ministry obtained such a complicated data and was capable of providing it to the World
Bank, then what was the project's purpose? In such case, what was the reason for the World
Bank's involvement? The Ministry would manage to perform all works itself.

                                                  43
It should be mentioned, that during this period, the Ministry established and equipped the Wild
Nature Epidemiological Supervision Laboratory, without any external support. Now we are
capable of obtaining such data and we use this data in furthering the process of Shahdagh
National Park establishment and development (despite all arising difficulties).


R.Sattarzade
Head of Environmental and Nature Protection Policy Department


R.Ajalov
Deputy Head of Finance and Economy




                                              44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The draft ICR was submitted to the Embassy of Japan in Azerbaijan for comments. The Embassy
informed the Bank that it had no comments.




                                            45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Environmental Assessment and Environmental
Management Plan, February 2005

The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, May 12, 2005

Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Borrower's
Project Completion Report, March 16, 2010




                                             46
                                                     45°E                                          46°E                                           47°E                                        48°E                                                 49°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                            RUSSIA N                             Makhachkala

                                                GE OR GI A
                                                                                                                          Balaken
                                                                                                                                                        G FEDERAT IO N
                                            To                                  To
                                                                             Tbilisi
                                                                                                               BALAKEN             Zagatala               rea
                                           Tbilisi
                                                                                                                                     ZAGATALA                   te                                                                     KHACHMAZ
                                                                                                                                                                       r                                         GUSAR
                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                  Gakh
                                                                                                                                                                                 au                              Gusar                          Khachmaz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AZERBAIJAN
                                 To
                                                                      AGSTAFA
                                                                                                                                      GAKH                                            ca                                 Guba
                              Vanadzor
                                                           GAZAKH
                                                                                                                                                                                            su                                                       Devechi
                                            To                                                                                                              Sheki                                s                           GUBA
                                         Vanadzor                            Agstafa                                                              SHEKI                                               M                                    DEVECHI
                                                                                              TOVUZ                                                                   Oghuz                               o
                  41°N
                                                                      Gazakh                 Ku
                                                                                                ra                                    Mingechevir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                u                                         Siyazan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41°N
                                                                                       Tovuz
                                                                                       Tovuz                                                                           OGHUZ                                                                        SIYAZAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                            Le                                                       SAMUKH           Reservoir                                              Gabala




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ttt a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                 ss                               SHEMKIR                                                                                                                                             Khizi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             iii n
                                                                                                                                                                                  GABALA
                                                                      er                    Shemkir                    Nabiagaly
                                                                                                                                                  MINGECHEVIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ismailli                        SHAMAKHY
                                                                                                                                                      Mingechevir                                    ISMAILLI                                                 KHIZI
                                                                                                        Ganja
                                       To                                                                                                                       Agdash                                                                                                       SUMGAYIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUMGAYIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Caspian Sea
                                                                            C
                                                                            C
                                                                            C




                                                                                                     GANJA                                          Yevlach
                                                                                                                                                    Yevlach                               Goychay                                    Shamakhy
                                    Vanadzor
                                                                               a




                                                                                      Gedabay                Geranboy                                        AGDASH                                                                                                             Sumgayit
                                                                                   u




                                                                                                       Khanlar                                                                     GOYCHAY                  Akhsu                                   Maraza
                                                                                                                                                  YEVLACH
                                                                                       c
                                                                                       c
                                                                                       c




                                                                                                  KHANLAR                                                                         Udjar                                                                                             Khyrdalan
                                                                                         a
                                                                                         a
                                                                                         a




                                                                              GEDABAY                       GERANBOY                                                                                            AKHSU
                                                                                            su
                                                                                            su
                                                                                            su




                                                                                            Dashkesan                                                                                                                                        GOBUSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GOBUSTAN
                                                                                                                                                          Barda                    UDJAR
                                                                                                  s




                                                                                                 DASHKESAN
                                                                  Lake                                                                  Tartar
                                                                                                                                         artar
                                                                                                                                        Tartar                                                                 Kyurdamir                                    ABSHERON         BAKU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BAKU
                                                                                                    M




                                                                                                                                                          BARDA
                              AR M E N I A                       Sevan                                                              ART
                                                                                                                                   TARTAR
                                                                                                                                   TARTAR




                                                                                                                                                                                      K
                                                                                                                                                                                      K
                                                                                                                                                                                      K
                                                                                                         o




                                                                                                                                                                                ZARDAB               KYURDAMIR
                                                                                                           u
                                                                                                           u
                                                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                            Zardab




                                                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HAGIKABUL
                                                                                                             n




                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                             To
                                                                                                               ttt a




                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                            Sevan                                                                         AGDAM             AGDZHEBEDI
                                                                                                        Kelbadzhar                                                                                             Kura SABIRABAD                      Gazi-Mammad
                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                     i




                                                                                                                                                                           Agdzhebedi                                                                                                                                                     40°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                 L
                  40°N           To                                                                 KELBADZHAR                                                                                                           Sabirabad




                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                               Yerevan                                                                                                            Agdam
                                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                                       s




                                                                                                                          KHODZHALY
                                                                                                                          KHODZHALY                                                           IMISHLI          l a                                  Ali Bayramli




                                                                                                                                                                                                        w
                 TURKEY




                                                                                                                           Khodzhaly                                                                                     Saatly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n                               ALI BAYRAMLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Imishli             d                                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                           LACHIN                                         Khodzhaveno BEILAGAN                                          SAATLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAATLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAATLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                   O



                                                                                                                               Shusha                                                                                                                     SALYAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SALYAN                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                    N




                               SADARAK                                                                                                                                  Beilagan                                      Araz
                                                                                                                                                 VE




                                     Sadarak                                                                                  SHUSHA                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                               HA




                                                                                                                     Lachin
                                                                                                                                           DZ




                                                                                                                                                          Fizuli                                                                                                                             50°E                                          51°E
                                                                                                                                           O




                                                      Sharur                                                                                                 FIZULI                                                  BILASUVAR                         Salyan
                                                                                                                                        KH




                                                     SHARUR                 SHAKHBUZ                                                                                                                                 Bilasuvar
                                                                                                                         Gubadly
                                                                            Shakhbuz                                                   Dzebrail                                                                                                     Neftchala
                                                Ar




                                                                    BABEK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A ZE RBA IJ AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEFTCHALA
                                                  az




                                                                                                                              GUBADLY
                                                                                                                              GUBADLY DZEBRAIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JALILABAD
                                                                       NAKHCHIVAN
                                                                       NAKHCHIVAN                                                                                                                                             Jalilabad
                                                                            DZHULFA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Le
                                                                       Babek                                                   Zangilan



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Masally


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nk
                                                                                      ORDUBAD                        ZANGILAN
                  39°N                     To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RAYON CAPITALS
                                                                                  Dzhulfa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39°N
                                         Salmas                                                                                                                                                                                      MASALLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MASALLY
                                                                                          Ordubad

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CAPITAL OF AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yardymly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yardymly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                               YARDYMLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                ARDYMLY
                                                                                                                                                                                               YARDYMLY                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LENKORAN
                                                                                                                              I SLA MIC REPUBLIC                                                                     Lerik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LERIK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an     Lenkoran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RIVERS
                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                          To                    Tabriz
                                                                                                                                    O F IRA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                        Tabriz                                                                                                                                                                                               MAIN ROADS
                          0    10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                              ASTARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ASTARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Astara
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                   To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33365
                                                                                                                                                                                 Tabriz                                                                                                      RAYON BOUNDARIES
                          0       10       20         30       40      50 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                            45°E                                                 46°E                                            47°E                                          48°E                                        Rasht     49°E
