Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4075 AZ 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Rural Environment Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 17, 2006 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4075 AZ 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF 
AZERBAIJAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between Republic of Azerbaijan 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) (the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement), the Bank, acting as the implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) has agreed to make a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to 
the Borrower in the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in financing part 
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between Republic of Azerbaijan 
and the Association (the Japanese Grant Agreement), the Association, acting as 
administrator of the grant funds provided by Japan, has agreed to make a grant (the 
Japanese Grant) to the Borrower in the amount of two million seven hundred twenty 
thousand Dollars ($2,720,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Japanese Grant Agreement. 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes  
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Credit, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Association’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds 
of its credits.  To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine that the amount 
of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such 
item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Association.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Access Restriction Process Framework” means the framework 
document, prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Association on 
 
February 21, 2005, setting forth measures to minimize and mitigate the negative social 
and economic impacts of the Project on potential affected individuals, which is an 
integral part of the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
(b) 
“Beneficiary under Part B of the Project” means any non-commercial 
legal entity eligible for assistance under Part B of the Project, meeting criteria referred to 
in the Project Implementation Manual and Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
“Beneficiary under Part C of the Project” means any legal person eligible 
for assistance under Part C of the Project, meeting criteria referred to in the Project 
Implementation Manual and paragraph B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
“Community Investment Grant” means the grant approved by the Village 
Cluster Investment Plan Approval Committee for the purpose of Part B of the Project. 
 
(e) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, adopted by the Borrower and submitted to the Association on 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
February 21, 2005, setting forth measures to mitigate any adverse impacts to the 
environment, which is an integral part of the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(g) 
“Grant Administrator” means a contractor engaged by the PIU to 
administer the Matching Grant funds under Part C of the Project. 
 
(h) 
“Grant Awarding Committee” means the committee chaired by the PIU, 
consisting of the representatives of Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, Ministry 
of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Ministry of 
Youth, Sports and Tourism of the Borrower, for the selection and approval of the 
Matching Grants under Part C of the Project. 
 
(i) 
“Investment Plan Approval Committee” means the committee headed by 
the PIU, consisting of representatives of executive committees of the raion governments, 
local representatives of relevant ministries of the Borrower as well as representatives of 
municipalities, if the municipalities are not represented on the Village Cluster 
Committee, for the selection and approval of the Community Investment Grant under 
Part B of the Project. 
 
(j) 
“Manat” means the national currency of the Borrower. 
 
(k) 
“Matching Grant” means the matching grant approved by the Grant 
Awarding Committee for the purpose of Part C of the Project. 
 
(l) 
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established on 
 
October 23, 1998 by the Chief of the Azerbaijan State Committee on Ecology and 
Control of Natural Resources Utilization of the Borrower, through its Decree No. 280 for 
the purposes of Project management. 
 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
March 4, 2005 covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(n) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Sections 3.01 (c) and 
6.01 (b) of this Agreement, maintained in Manat and to be used for financing the 
Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures. 
 
(o) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual, satisfactory to the 
Association, setting forth the implementation rules and procedures for the Project, 
including selection criteria and provision of Community Investment Grants and Matching 
Page  6
-
4
-
4
Grants under Parts B and C of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time by agreement between the Association and the Borrower. 
 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(q) 
“Village Clusters” means the fifteen (15) groups of villages identified in 
the Project Implementation Manual for the purpose of proposing and implementing 
Village Cluster Implementation Plans under Part B of the Project. 
 
(r) 
“Village Clusters Committee(s)” means the committee(s) established by 
the community members of the Village Cluster(s), meeting the criteria indicated in the 
Project Implementation Manual, for the purpose of formulating and overseeing 
implementation of Village Cluster Investment Plan(s) under Part B of the Project. 
 
(s) 
“Village Cluster Investment Plan(s)” means the set of activities, meeting 
the criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, and approved by the Village 
Cluster Investment Plan Approval Committee under Part B of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 5,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
 
(i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and works 
required for Parts A and D of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
 
(ii) 
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be 
paid) by the PIU on account of withdrawals made to meet the 
costs of goods, works and services required for Parts B and C of 
the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
1
and December 1, commencing December 1, 2015 and ending June 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2025 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower
’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the PIU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 and the Procedure and Selection Criteria 
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, to finance its counterpart contribution 
to the expenditures of the Project and ensure that the funds deposited into the Project 
Account shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s counterpart contributions to 
the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year  
(or such other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(ii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause the PIU to prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementation Manual shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Association, the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
 
(A)  
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
GEF Trust Fund Grant and/or Japanese Grant made to 
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and/or Japanese Grant Agreement; or 
 
(B)  
the GEF Trust Fund Grant and/or Japanese Grant shall 
have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof. 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and 
 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
 
(b) 
the Japanese Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit 
Agreement, have been fulfilled;  
 
(c) 
the Project Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has 
been finalized and submitted to the Association; 
 
(d) 
the Borrower has opened a Project Account in a bank on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association with an initial deposit in Manat equivalent to 
$50,000; and 
 
(e) 
a legal instrument to establish the Shah Dag National Park of the 
Borrower has been issued. 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
83
Samed Vurgun Street 
 
Baku AZ1022 
 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:  
 
142116 BNKSL 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By /s/ Huseyngulu Seyid oglu Bagirov   
 
Authorized Representative  
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Saida R. Bagirli 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1) 
Goods and works 
 
 
81% 
 
(a)  for rehabilitation and  
1,050,000 
 
construction of buildings, 
 
office equipment and  
 
furnishings and vehicles  
 
and equipment under  
 
Part A of the Project 
 
(b) for others 
1,100,000 
 
(2) Training 
and 
incremental 
400,000 
 
100% 
 operating 
costs 
 
(3) Grants 
 
 
100% 
 
(a) under Part B of the Project 
2,000,000 
 
(b) under Part C of the Project 
500,000 
 
(4) Unallocated 
350,000
TOTAL 5,400,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “training” means expenditures incurred for the training 
activities, including costs of workshops, tuition, domestic and international travel and per 
diem of trainees; 
 
(b) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means operating costs incurred by 
the PIU on account of Project implementation for fuel, vehicle operating costs, 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
maintenance and insurance, per diems and local travel costs, costs of consultative 
meetings or workshops, communications costs, office rental, maintenance supplies and 
utilities, salary of support staff, excluding those who are civil servants, and other 
reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project implementation, 
management and monitoring as may be agreed upon by the Association; and 
 
(c) 
the term “grants” means financing of Community Investment Grants and 
Matching Grants under Parts B and C of the Project, in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) for works and 
goods for rehabilitation and construction of buildings, office equipment and furnishings 
and vehicles and equipment under Part A of the Project, unless the Borrower has 
approved the charter of Shah Dag National Park, acceptable to the Association. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) training; (d) grants; and (e) incremental operating costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  
Page  17
-
15
-
15
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve biodiversity 
conservation and introduce more sustainable natural resource management and economic 
activities in two mountainous areas, in order to restore the ecological health and 
productivity of their natural forests and pastures. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Establishment and Management of Protected Areas
Establishment of the Shah Dag National Park of the Borrower and expansion of 
the Ordubad National Park of the borrower, including the creation and strengthening of 
park management institutions and systems, through provision of goods, works and 
services. 
 
Part B
:
Community-level Investment in Sustainable Agriculture and Natural Resource 
Management
Provision of the Community Investment Grants in order to assist the 
communities living inside and immediately adjacent to the national parks referred to in 
Part A of the Project for their smooth transition from unsustainable aspects of traditional 
agricultural and natural resource use towards more modern and efficient use of natural 
resources, in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and Part A of Schedule 
6
to this Agreement. 
 
Part C
:
Rural Enterprise Development
Provision of the Matching Grants for the start and expansion of environmentally 
sustainable small- and medium-sized commercial enterprises in order to stimulate and 
diversify the local economy, in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and 
Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Part D
:
Project Management
Support to the PIU and its branch offices for the effective implementation of the 
Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than $600,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
There shall be no eligibility restrictions based on nationality of bidder 
and/or origin of goods. 
 
(b) 
Pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works 
procurement and shall be conducted only for large works projects. 
 
(c) 
Entities in which the State or a State official owns a shareholding of 
whatever size shall not be invited to participate in tenders for the Government unless they 
are and can be shown to be legally and financially autonomous and they operate under 
commercial law. 
 
(d) 
No national preferences may be applied on the basis of the origin of 
products or labor. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
(e) 
Joint venture partners shall be jointly and severally liable for their 
obligations. 
 
(f) 
No “participation fee” shall be required of bidders for the purchase of 
bidding documents. The only charge shall be equivalent to the cost of producing 
(copying) and mailing the bidding documents. 
 
(g) 
In the evaluation of bids, bids may not be rejected where they differ 
substantially from the estimated prices calculated by the procuring entity, except where 
the bid prices exceed the available budget. 
 
(h) 
Rebidding shall not be carried out without prior approval of the 
Association. 
 
(i) 
Works contracts of more than eighteen (18) months duration shall 
include appropriate price adjustment provisions. 
 
(j) 
Prior approval of the Association shall be required for any modification 
in the contract scope and conditions during implementation. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
4. Commercial 
Practices
.
Items that are to be financed under Part C of the Project 
may be procured in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Association. 
 
5. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for Part B of the 
Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
 
Section III
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association. 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February 29, 2008, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken, all measures necessary for the 
carrying out of the EMP and Access Restriction Process Framework, as set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual, in a timely manner.  
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the PIU, shall appoint, not later than three (3) months 
after the Effective Date, an auditor under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall hire, not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, 
coordinators and assistants to the coordinators for the regional PIU offices, following the 
procedures and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph  
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and  
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Page  24
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Procedures and Selection Criteria  
under Parts B and C of the Project 
 
Part A
:
Procedures and Selection Criteria under Part B of the Project
1. 
Community Investment Grants shall be made available to any legally-registered 
entities selected by the Village Cluster Committees and meeting the criteria outlined in 
the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
2. 
The Village Cluster Committee shall:  
 
(a) 
develop its Village Cluster Investment Plan with the assistance and 
advice from the PIU, and in consultation with its community members, and submit the 
proposed Village Cluster Investment Plan to the Village Cluster Investment Plan 
Approval Committee; and  
 
(b) 
select the implementing body of the plan, which shall become the 
Beneficiary under Part B of the Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria set out 
in paragraph 1 above. 
 
3. 
The Investment Plan Approval Committee shall appraise and evaluate proposals 
based on the criteria and menu of options elaborated in the Project Implementation 
Manual. 
 
4. 
Once the Village Cluster Investment Plan is approved by the Village Cluster 
Investment Plan Approval Committee, the Community Investment Grant Agreement 
between the PIU and the implementing entity under paragraph 2 (b) shall be concluded, 
and each such Agreement shall require the Beneficiary under Part B of the Project to, 
inter alia: 
 
(a) 
ensure that the Community Investment Grant funds are used exclusively 
for the purposes specified for the proposed Village Cluster Investment Plan approved by 
the Investment Plan Approval Committee; 
 
(b) 
maintain a financial management system, including records and separate 
accounts, in a format acceptable to the PIU, reflecting the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the proposed Village Cluster Investment Plan; 
 
(c) 
procure the works, goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Community Investment Grant in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Manual, which is consistent with the Community Participation Procedure in 
 
paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and with the Manual for Conducting Very 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
Small Value Procurement under World Bank/IDA Small Grants, Loans and Credits  
(June 2004); 
 
(d) 
allow the PIU staff members to inspect the sites, works and goods 
financed by the Community Investment Grant; and 
 
(e) 
agree to have the Community Investment Grant suspended or terminated 
upon the Beneficiary
’s failure to perform the obligations set forth in the Community 
Investment Grant Agreement, and be legally obligated, upon termination to reimburse the 
PIU any Community Investment Grant received. 
 
Part B
:
Procedures and Selection Criteria under Part C of the Project
1. 
(a) 
Matching Grants shall be made available to: (i) any person who has been 
registered as a resident in one of the 95 villages specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual prior to January 1, 2006 and is a resident when the Matching Grant proposal is 
submitted; or (ii) a legal entity owned fully or partly by such a person described in  
(i) above. 
 
(b) 
Further eligibility criteria regarding 1 (a) (ii) above shall be elaborated in 
the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
2. 
The PIU shall launch a promotion and outreach campaign, and issue requests for 
the Matching Grant proposals. 
 
3. 
The potential applicants for the Matching Grant may receive technical assistance 
from the specialists under the PIU in preparing their business plans and Matching Grant 
applications. 
 
4. 
All Matching Grant proposals shall be reviewed, evaluated and approved based 
on the criteria elaborated in the Project Implementation Manual, by the Grant Awarding 
Committee, which meets every three months. 
 
5. 
The amount of individual Matching Grant shall be based upon the estimated cost 
of goods, works, services and operating costs that will be required for the full cost of 
indicated in the Matching Grant proposal, and shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of 
such full costs.  In exceptional cases, meeting criteria set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and with the agreement of the Grant Awarding Committee and 
the Association, the Matching Grant may cover a higher percentage of the total cost of 
the Matching Grant proposal, up to hundred percent (100%). 
 
6. 
No individual Matching Grant shall be disbursed unless a Matching Grant 
Agreement has been executed between the Beneficiary under Part C of the Project and 
the Grant Administrator. 
 
Page  26
-
24
-
24
7. 
Each Matching Grant Agreement shall require the Beneficiary under Part C of 
the Project to, inter alia: 
 
(a) 
open a bank account for the purpose of the Matching Grant, into which 
the Matching Grant and the contribution from the Beneficiary under Part C of the Project 
are deposited; 
 
(b) 
ensure that the Matching Grant funds are used exclusively for the 
purpose specified in the Matching Grant Agreement; 
 
(c) 
provide no less than forty percent (40%) of the total investment cost in 
cash, except as specified in paragraph 5 above; 
 
(d) 
maintain a financial management system, including records and separate 
accounts, in a format acceptable to the PIU, reflecting the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the proposal; 
 
(e) 
procure the works, goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Matching Grant in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, which is 
consistent with the commercial practices mentioned in paragraph 3.12 of the Procurement 
Guidelines; 
 
(f) 
ensure that, whenever appropriate, the environmental assessment and/or 
environmental management plan acceptable to the PIU has been prepared and 
implemented in a timely manner; 
 
(g) 
allow the PIU staff members or any other inspector representing the PIU 
to inspect the sites, works and goods financed by the Matching Grant; and 
 
(h) 
agree to have the Matching Grant suspended or terminated upon its 
Beneficiary
’s failure to perform the obligations set forth in the Matching Grant 
Agreement, and be legally obligated, upon termination, to reimburse the PIU any 
Matching Grant received.
 
