Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18740
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
[Credit No. 2310-KE]
December23, 1998
Africa Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling
Appraisai: US$. 1 = KSH 23.0
Project Closing: US$ 1 = KSH 59.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS               Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CBS                Central Bureau of Statistics
DPD               Department of Policy Planning and Development
GOK               Govemment of Kenya
HIV               Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
HRSSD             Human Resources and Social Services Department
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
KNH               Kenyatta National Hospital
MOH               Ministry of Health
MOPW              Ministry of Public Works
MPND              Ministry of Planning and National Development
NAHS              Nairobi Area Health Services
NCC               Nairobi City Council
NHIF              National Health Insurance Fund
PMO               Provincial Medical Officer
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SDR               Special Drawving Rights
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
WMS               Welfare Monitoring System
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice-President:         Callisto Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Director:       Harold Wackman (AFC05)
Sector Manager:         Ruth Kagia (AFTH1)
Task Team Leader:       Andrew Follmer (AFTHl)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.V .............................
EVALUATION SUMMARY.I
Introduction.i
Project Objectives.i
Implementation Experience and Results .
Future Operations and Key Lessons Leared.                                                   ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .I
Introduction and Background .I
Project Objectives.1
Achievement of Project Objectives                            .2
Implementation Experience                                 .3
Major Factors Affecting the Project                           .7
Project Sustainability.8
Borrower Performance                                    .9
Bank Performancee.9
Assessment of Outcome .10
Future Operations.11
Key Lessons Learned.12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ............................ . . . . . . .   ., 14
Table la: Summary of Assessments: Health Rehabilitation Project
Table lb: Summary of Assessments: Kenyatta National Hospital Component
Table Ic: Summaiy of Assessments: Nairobi Area Healtli Services Component
Table Id: Summary of Assessmrents: Health Planning and Analysis Comnponent
Table le: Summary of Assessments: Welfare Monitoring System Component
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Conducted
Table 8: Project Costs - Staff Appraisal Report Estimates and Actual Expenditures
Table 9: Project Financing
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Actual Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14: Out-Patient Utilization of Nairobi Area Health Facilities
Table 15: Kenyatta National Hospital Performance Targets
Table 16a: Ministry of Health Budget: Total Public Health Expenditures
Table 16b: Ministry of Health Budget: Functional Composition of Recurrent Health Budget
Table 16c: Ministry of Health Budget: Economic Composition of Recurrent Health Budget
This document has a restricted distnibution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bankl authorization.



APPENDICES
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B: Civil Works Report
Appendix C: Borrower's Evaluiation Report
Appendix D: Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
Appendix E: Map of Kenya
This document has a restricted distributioni and may be used by recipients only in the
performiance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2310-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kenya Health Rehabilitation Project,
for which Credit 2310-KE in the amount of SDR 21.6 million (US$31.0 million equivalent at the prevaili,,g
exchange rate) was approved on November 14, 199 1, and made effective on July 7, 1992.
The credit closed on June 30, 1998, after a one-year extension of the original closing date. The last
disbursement was made on December 8, 1998. An undisbursed balance of SDR 1.8 million (US$ 2.5
million at the prevailing exchange rate) will be canceled once refunds due from the Government are
received and the accounts closed. A review of Statements of Expenditures indicated that US$175,373 is
due to be refinded to IDA by the Government; in addition, US$385,037 wvas not recovered from the
Special Accounts and is due to be refunded to IDA by the Government.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Andrew Follmer, the Human Development Group I, Eastern and
Southern Africa; and was reviewed by Mrs. Ruth Kagia, Sector Manager, AFTHI, and Mr. Harold
Wackman, Country Director for Kenya. The borrower reviewed the draft report before it was finalized.
This report was prepared during an ICR mission in September, 1998, comprising Mr. Andrew
Follmer (Team Leader), Mr. Dick Coppinger (Civil Engineer, Consultant), Ms. Wacuka Ikua (Operations
Officer), Mr. Lucas Ojiambo (Economist), Mr. Dahir Warsame (Procurement Specialist), and Mr. John
Ogallo (Financial Management Specialist). The ICR is based on information collected during that mission
and on material from the project files.
The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by contributing views as reflected in the
Completion Mission's Aide Memoire (Appendix A), by preparing a separate Project Completion Report
(Appendix C), and by providing detailed commcnts on the parts of the ICR as it evolved and formally
responding to the draft ICR (Appendix D).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2310-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Kenya (GoK) undertook the Health Rehabilitation Project to reduce public
spending on urban hospitals and increase resources devoted to more cost-effective preventive and primary
health programs. It sought to encourage continued sector reform and facilitate a reallocation of resources
from the curative health care system to preventive and primary services. Further, the inadequate financing
of health facilities made the introduction of cost-sharing an urgent need.
2.    In addition, a component was added to the project to strengthen the Central Bureau of Statistics'
capacity to produce survey results in a timely manner, as well as to strengthen the capacity in the Social
Sector Department of the Ministry of Planning and National Development to perforn meaningful analysis
of the results of such surveys and provide advice, based on that analysis, to MPND and the social sector
ministries for policy design.
PRCJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The objectives of the Health Rehabilitation Project were: (i) to support the GoK's program of
health sector reform by (a) rehabilitating Kenyatta National Hospital to reduce its burden on the overall
budget and permnit an increase in expenditure on preventive and primary health; (b) improving the delivery
of health services in the Nairobi area; and (c) preparing for future policy, managerial, and investment
reform in health; and (ii) to support the development of a National Household Welfare Monitoring and
Evaluation System. The project objectives proved overly-ambitious, partially due to capacity constraints.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.    Overall, the project objectives were partially achieved and the outcome was marginally
satisfactory. The project did successfully rehabilitate KNH and enable that institution to achieve its
institutional development objectives, but the principal objective of reducing the hospital's burden on the
MOH budget was not achieved, primarily because the NAHS component failed to achieve its objective of
becoming the principal provider of primary and secondary care in the Nairobi area, thus allowing the
decongestion of KNH. The objectives of the Health Planning and Analysis component were fulfilled, with
a successful user fee program being instituted, significant capacity being developed, and the MOH's Health
Sector Reformn program benefiting from significant contributions. On the other hand, the WMS component
only partially achieved its objectives, with progrcss in the statistical sub-component being largely
unsustainable and the objectives of the analytical sub-component being only partially fulfilled.
5.    Implementation experience. The credit was extended by one year as significant improvement in
implementation was evident by the original closing date of June 30, 1997. Less than 40 percent of the
funds had been disbursed by the original closing date, but the one year extension resulted in disbursement



Evaluation Summara                                                          Paze ii of iii
of an additional 52 percent of credit proceeds. All the civil works under this project proved problematic,
suffering from lengthy delays and increased costs. Re-introduction of the MOH's aborted user fees was a
condition of effectiveness, and the system was soon cited and continues to be recognized as being among
the best in Sub-Saharan Africa. The disbursement of credit proceeds was hampered by weak financial
management and a shortage of counterpart funds. Audits were consistently late, and the final review of
Statements of Expenditures has uncovered several cases in which expenditures were wrongly claimed from
the credit. Subsequently, IDA requested in January, 1999, that US$175,373 be refunded by GOK.
6.    Major Factors affecting the project. Factors which were seen to negatively affect the project are:
(i) an economic downturn since 1992/93 which led to high inflation and the depreciation of the Kenyan
shilling, resulting in cost variations, as well as constraining counterpart funds; (ii) the poor supervision of
civil works; (iii) the inordinately slow processing of payment applications; (iv) coordination of the four
loosely-related components across multiple institutions proved unworkable, and the MOH lacked the
authority to coordinate the various agencies involved in the project; (v) the lack of coordination and
consensus under the NAHS component; (vi) the lack of capacity in the MPND to implement IDA projects;
(vii) the delays in KNH civil works caused by the hospital being slow in turning over parts of the hospital
to the contractor; and (viii) weak procurement capacity.
7.    Borrower Performance was satisfactory during Identification and Preparation, but unsatisfactory
at Appraisal, when the GOK's irresolution on the issue of re-instatement of user charges at health facilities
indicated a lack of appreciation of and commitment to the recurrent cost implications of the proposed
investment. The Government also seemed less willing to address critical issues of sustainability, financial
feasibility, and problems with project design. Borrower performance during implementation was
unsatisfactory overall.  However, except for the problematic issues of late payments which caused
significant delays in civil works across the project, supervision of the KNH component and the Health
Planning and Analysis component were largely satisfactory. Implementation of the two components
requiring inter-Ministry cooperation and supervision was unsatisfactory. This is largely due to the
difficulties encountered in supervising and implementing the components across multiple Ministries, and the
lack of capacity in the ministries that were paired with the Ministry of Health.
8.    Bank Performance was satisfactory at Identification, when the focus was mainly on KNH.
Preparation was satisfactory in the case of the KNH component, but unsatisfactory in the NAHS
component, as much of "preparation" was left to take place during implementation. Preparation of the
Health Planning and Analysis component was satisfactory, and no WMS component was planned until
after Appraisal. At Appraisal, the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory overall, but satisfactory for the
KNH and Health Planning and analysis components. During supervision, performance was deficient.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
9.     The GOK should complete the civil works at the NCC clinics promptly, and their completion
should be a condition of appraisal of the next IDA credit to the health sector. Further, a satisfactory
preventive maintenance plan should be developed and effected to ensure the sustainability of the
Government and IDA's investment in these clinics. Finally, the Strategic Plan for health services in the
Nairobi area should be fully implemented. An aggressive target for reducing KNH's reliance on the MOH
budget should be a condition of appraisal for the next IDA credit to the health sector. In addition, the
Government should commission a study of whether, and to what degree, the support provided to KNH is an
appropriate model for other hospitals undergoing the transition to autonomous institutions. Regarding the
WMS component, a Task Force has been established to prepare a Strategic Plan for statistics that will
ii



Evaluation Summary                                                           Page iii of 0i
address the need for strengtiening and reform of CBS, with its report expected in April, 1999. This report
will form the basis against which donors will be requested to pledge support.
10.    A number of key lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project:
(i)    Implementation across Ministries: Implementation of projects across ministries is difficult,
especially when the lines of authority, support arrangements, and expectations of interaction
between ministries are not clearly defined.
(ii)    Relevance of Components: Components that are not consistent with the core purpose of a project
should not be added for reasons of expediency rather than relevance, especially if additional
ministries would become involved.
(iii)   Inter-dependence of Components: When the ability of one component to achieve its objectives is
dependent on the success of another component, the relationship between the components must be
carefully considered at appraisal and throughout implementation, with particular attention to (i)
timing of activities in one component relative to those in the other, (ii) relative degrees of
preparation, (iii) relative levels of capacity, (iv) susceptibility of each component to risks relative
to the other.
(iv)    Closing Dates: Decisions with regard to whether to grant project extensions should be made
sufficiently in advance to allow for continuity of activities and maximum utility of the extension.
Activities likely to extend beyond the closing date should not be approved prior to the official
extension of a project.
I
(v)   Procurement Capacity: Procurement capacity should be thoroughly assessed at appraisal, and
provisions made at that time to address any inadequacies in capacity. The use of an independent,
external procurement agent can contribute to successful implementation through facilitating
procurement and building capacity.
(vi)   Importance of Close Monitoring and Supervision:  The experience of this project clearly
demonstrates the direct relationship between intensified implementation support and
implementation effectiveness. The achievements of the final year of implementation and the
improved relationship with the Borrower are largely due to intensified supervision by IDA.
(vii)   Counterpart Funds and Financial Management: A further rationalization of the GoK's portfolio
of projects, consistent with the Bank's CAS, is required, as evidenced by the implementation delays
caused by the unavailability of the required GoK counterpart funding. In addition, strengthened
financial management and the introduction of accountability measures are necessary to avoid
repeated implementation delays.
111



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2310-KE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.    The Government of Kenya (GoK) undertook the Health Rehabilitation Project to reduce public
spending on urban hospitals and increase resources devoted to more cost-effective preventive and primary
health programs. By the start of the project, recurrent expenditures were increasingly constrained by an
MOH budget which was consumed to a growing degree by capital expenditures (from 13.2 percent of
MOH budget in 1985 to 27.6 percent in 1990).1
2.     Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH), Kenya's largest hospital (1,500 beds) and the national
teaching and referral hospital, transferred from MOH control to being incorporated as a parastatal in 1987.
Demand for services exceeded the hospital's capacity by the late 1980s, with most services being for
primary and secondary care, and only a limited percentage representing its principal tertiary function.
Service volume increased rapidly as occupancy exceeded 100 percent and outpatient visits rose 34 percent
between 1987 and 1989. Quality declined with shortages of drugs and supplies, long delays in diagnosis,
and deteriorating physical conditions. These problems were compounded by over-congestion of KNH due
to the under-utilization of other, less-costly Nairobi-area health facilities (Table 14). Lower-level health
facilities operated inefficiently and failed to fulfill their necessary role in the health service delivery system
as the main providers of primary and secondary care. Furthermore, the inadequate financing of health
facilities made the introduction of cost-sharing an urgent need.
3.    In addition, the Central Bureau of Statistics, while it had conducted household surveys at irregular
intervals, lacked capacity to produce survey results in a timely manner. Furthermore, the Social Sector
Department of the Ministry of Planning and National Development lacked the capacity to perform
meaningful analysis of the results of such surveys and provide advice, based on that analysis, to MPND
and the social sector ministries for policy design.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     The objectives of the Health Rehabilitation Project were: (i) to support the GOK's program of
health sector reforn by (a) rehabilitating Kenyatta National Hospital to reduce its burden on the overall
budget and permit an increase in expenditure on preventive and primary health; (b) improving the delivery
of health services in the Nairobi area; and (c) preparing for future policy, managerial, and investment
reform in health; and (ii) to support the development of a National Household Welfare Monitoring and
Evaluation System.
i Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)



PARTI: Implementation Assessment                                          Page 2 ofl13
5.    The project was designed to achieve these objectives through implementation of the following
components:
a) Kenyatta National Hospital (US$19.6 million): The physical rehabilitation and institutional
development of the hospital included (i) civil works to upgrade and rehabilitate existing buildings and
facilities; (ii) financing medical and non-medical equipment, beds, and vehicles; (iii) financing
HIV/AIDS-related supplies; (iv) training of managers and technicians; and (v) technical assistance
and computers to strengthen the management of finance, personnel, procurement. It was hoped that
this would equip the hospital to become autonomous and more financially self-sustaining.
b) Nairobi Area Health Services (US$4.2 million): This component was designed to overcome
inadequacies at lower-level Nairobi facilities and the absence of a functioning referral system. Project
elements included (i) technical assistance to develop a strategic plan for the Nairobi area, with modest
funding for its initial implementation; and (ii) rehabilitation and construction, equipment, training, and
technical assistance to meet priority needs at selected Nairobi City Council (NCC) and MOH facilities
and achieve interim improvements in service delivery.
c) Strengthening Health Planning and Analysis and Preparing Sector Reform (US$ 3.0
million): Project elements included (i) technical assistance, staff training, computers and office
equipment for the Division of Planning and Development; and (ii) analytical studies and technical
assistance to prepare a reform program and a public investment program for the health sector.
d) Developing a National Household Welfare Monitoring and Evaluation System (US$2.0
million): This component was to be implemented by the Ministry of Planning and National
Development (MPND) and included strengthening the district-level Central Bureau of Statistics
(CBS) office network and the Social Sector Department through (i) technical assistance and training
in data processing and analysis; and (ii) computers, vehicles and office equipment.
6.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives of the project were appropriate and responsive to
the country's needs in the health sector, though slightly vague and made somewhat disjointed by the
addition of the Welfare Monitoring System  component.  The latter became more evident during
implementation when this component proved difficult to coordinate and supervise through the Ministry of
Health. Though consistent with the Bank's CAS and the Government of Kenya's objectives for the sector
at the time, the project objectives proved overly-ambitious, partially due to capacity constraints which were
not adequately,identified as risks in the SAR.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The design of the project was overly-complex in its implementation arrangements, and resembled
four loosely-related sub-projects with varying success in realizing their respective objectives. Since the
Bank's practice at the time of preparation did not require the inclusion of monitorable indicators in the
SAR, supervision missions' ability to gauge and guide the progress of the project was hampered; in
contrast, the KNH component did include such indicators, and the quality of supervision was subsequently
better.
8.    Kenyatta National Hospital:   Despite substantial delays, the hospital was successfully
rehabilitated, with very positive impact in the form of improved quality of care and improved management
(Table 15). While institutional development objectives were largely achieved, the failure of the NAHS
component to achieve its objectives made the decongestion of KNH impossible; in fact, the improved
2



PART 1: Implementation Assessment                                          Page 3 Of 13
services at KNH attracted an increased number of patients (Table 14). Therefore, it was impossible for
KNH to abandon primary and secondary care. Since cost-sharing fees--though higher at KNH than at
other facilities-do not provide for full cost recovery, the hospital's burden on the MOH budget was not
reduced. Nevertheless, the MOH did manage to significantly increase the share of funds spent on
preventive and promotive health services from 15 percent of the MOH budget at effectiveness to 28 percent
in 1997-982, with most of this increase being attributable to incremental increases in the MOH's total
budget in recent years.
9.    Nairobi Area Health Services (NAHS): The NAHS component was not as extensively prepared as
the KNH component. The lack of a strategy for achievement of objectives left much of "preparation" to
take place during implementation. The result was that insufficient progress was made to enable the Nairobi
area health facilities to become the principal providers of primary and secondary care and allow KNH to
focus on its principal tertiary and teaching functions. There are tentative indications that the increased
physical, human, and financial resources now available might enable the objectives of this component to be
partially achieved in the future.
10.   Health Planning and Analysis: This component fulfilled its objectives. The highly-successful user
fee program is a model for other countries. The Department of Planning and Development (now renamed
the Department of Policy, Planning and Development) was strengthened through the implementation of
recommendations made by IDA supervision missions. Significant capacity was developed through the
training component, and the studies financed by the project contributed to the preparation of the Health
Policy Framework Paper (1994), the basis for Government's program of health policy and health financing
reforms. Though the implementation of this program has been slow, the project's objective of contributing
to the preparation of the Health Sector Reform program can be viewed as almost fully achieved.
11.    Welfare Monitoring System: This component also only partially achieved its objectives. The
statistical sub-component provided the physical and capacity-building inputs necessary to strengthen CBS's
capacity to generate useful data and improve the quality of the data delivered, despite implementation
difficulties, weaknesses in the timeliness of delivery, and declining capacity. However, the objective of the
analytical sub-component to strengthen the capacity of HRSSD to provide meaningful analysis of these
statistical outputs was only partially fulfilled.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
12.    The implementation progress of this project was largely unsatisfactory up to the Mid-Term
Review, beginning with the Government's delay in fulfilling the condition of effectiveness requiring the
reintroduction of user fees. More aggressive restructuring of the project seems to have been warranted at
the mid-term review, particularly with regard to the KNH and NAHS components. Nonetheless,
implementation did begin to improve about a year later in 1995.
13.   Disbursements and Financial Management. Disbursements data show that, after an initial lag,
most activities fell even further behind. Less than 40 percent of the funds had been disbursed by the
original closing date. Due to the progress in procurement, MOH's efforts to address the payment backlog,
and intensified supervision by IDA, the one year extension resulted in disbursement of an additional 52
percent of credit proceeds. Delays on the part of the Government in processing payment applications (PAs)
were a significant factor in implementation delays. Though it remains a serious problem, the final few
2 Ministry of Health, Republic of Kenya
3



PARTI: ImplementationAssessment                                           Page 4 of 13
months of implementation did benefit from some improvement in this regard: a PA Tracking System was
introduced in late 1997, accompanied by an limited reduction in the number of steps in the PA process.
Streamlined payment procedures and the introduction of accountability measures will be necessary for the
successful implementation of any future IDA credit to the health sector.
14.   In addition to the unnecessarily complicated payment process, financial management within the
Project was weak. The Ministry relied on IDA to monitor expenditures and commitments vis-a-vis the
category allocations and total credit amount. Basic accounts information for the project required an
inordinate amount of time to produce, and the Ministry had difficulty processing payments under the credit
within the four-month disbursements grace period after project closing because planned expenditures had
not been sufficiently provided for in the budget and the necessary Authority to Incur Expenditures (AIEs)
had not been obtained. Audit performance improved over the life of the project. Though the majority of
the audits were unqualified, they were consistently late. Finally, a review of Statements of Expenditure has
indicated several cases under both MOH and MPND in which expenditures totaling US$175,373 were
wrongly claimed from the credit and are to be refunded to IDA.
15.   Government Contribution. The SAR estimated GoK contribution to this project of 10.1 percent
of total project costs; however, actual GoK contribution was only 7.4 percent (Table 8b). The required
counterpart funds were frequently unavailable, and the Government's inability to finance the recurrent
costs led to situations in which implementation was stymied by the implementing agencies' inability to
finance basic operating expenditures such as photocopies and fuel. IDA amended the Development Credit
Agreement in November, 1997, to allow for financing of incremental operational costs from the credit
proceeds.
16.   Procurement. There was limited procurement of goods under this credit during the original
project life, The one major tender (KNH Medical Equipment) that had proceeded to evaluation was
canceled. It was agreed during the February 1997 supervision mission that GTZ would be contracted as
the procurement agent for all ongoing and future procurements. The impact of this decision was an easing
of the procurement bottleneck, as a detailed procurement plan was developed and seven tenders were
successfully floated, with contracts awarded totaling US$6.2 million. The medical and other equipment
procured made it possible for the project to close with its development objectives fulfilled to a much greater
degree.
17.   User Fees. Throughout project preparation, a major focus of the Bank was on the re-introduction
of user fees in Kenya's health sector. Introduced in 1987, they were rescinded by the Government two
years later due to public opposition. The Bank worked with the GoK throughout preparation to ensure that
these fees could be re-introduced without the disorganization and poor management that had plagued their
1987 introduction, and funds were re-allocated from the IDA-financed Third Population Project to finance
a public awareness campaign. Re-introduction was a condition of effectiveness, and the system was soon
cited as being among the best in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has generated significant funds which have been
invaluable in enabling health facilities to withstand the current fiscal crisis and shrinking of the health
sector budget. Collections have risen from less than KSH 100 million in the first year to an estimated KSH
400 million in 1997-98 (excluding KNH), and measures recently enacted to streamline and strengthen
internal controls on the collection, accounting, and use of these revenues are expected to lead to further
increased collections in the current year.
18.   Civil Works. All the civil works under this project proved problematic. The performance of both
MOPW in the implementation of civil works at KNH and of the NCC in implementation of their civil
works were ineffective. MOPW project management structure and administrative processing procedures
4



PART I: Implementation Assessment                                          Page 5 of 13
were cumbersome, and personnel frequently changed. Communications between the implementing agency
and the MOPW were virtually non-existent, and the resources of MOPW for supervision of works was
limited. This resulted in the dilution of responsibilities which was manifested in poor results. During the
extension of the project, the situation improved with increasing progress noted by supervision missions.
This was apparently due to (i) intensified supervision and cooperation by the hospital; and (ii) intensified
supervision by IDA supervision missions and field staff. The supervision by NCC of the civil works at
their clinics was poor, and the contractors were largely unsupervised. In addition, civil works across the
project were consistently plagued by late payments to contractors. This caused lengthy delays and
increased costs. An accounting of the reasons for the inordinate delay in the completion of these works,
and the subsequent 30 percent cost overrun at KNH, can be found in Appendix B.
19.   Extension of Closing Date:  By the original closing date of June 30, 1997, significant
improvement was evident, though it was questionable at the time whether a one-year extension would result
in significantly greater achievement of the project's development objectives.  The results clearly
demonstrate that granting the extension proved to be the right decision. A renewed commitment on the part
of both implementing agencies and the Bank, aided in procurement matters by the impressive performance
of the recently-hired procurement agent, are the major factors behind this dramatic improvement in the final
year of implementation.
Kenyatta National Hospital:
20.    The main areas in which major improvements are attributable to the project are: (i) improvement
in clinical efficiency and capacity: the training program financed by this project significantly augmented
clinical capacity, and KNH has been able to retain staff after they return from training; (ii) management:
the training program also greatly enhanced managerial capacity within the institution; (iii) financial
sustainability: while the hospital's share of health budget rose from 12.8 percent in 1992 to 16.9 percent in
1998, it has demonstrated a capacity to generate significant revenues and there is evidence that this level of
MOH financing is not necessary. KNH's private wing
succeeded in becoming self-sustaining, largely due to the
project's investment, and it has generated a surplus since  KNH Total Revenue
1994. While this department consumes only 9 percent of        Collections
the hospital's budget, it currently contributes 40 percent  350 -
of hospital revenues -- a figure likely to increase given
the recent expansion of the wing.                      0  -          .. : ..-
200
.150         ..  ............
21.    KNH's reliance on the Ministry of Health budget    E
was not reduced; in fact, KNH's allocation as a share of        -
the MOH budget actually increased during the project.    °
While the major cause for this was the failure to               N c     i ( l 
decongest KNH, part of the reason may be the manner in      _  _  .  _      I _
which the funds are allocated. The KNH share of the      | Main Hospital n Pri%ste Wing
MOH budget decreased from 16.4 percent in 1995/96 to Source: Kenyata National Hospital
15.1 percent in 1996/97. The budget for the last year of
the project provided for a further decreased share to KNH. However, since the KNH budget is negotiated
separately with Treasury without the involvement of MOH, it was not subject to the same decreases
experienced by the MOH due to the Government's fiscal constraints. Subsequently the KNH grant
comprised a larger share of the MOH budget than originally planned. This might be addressed by
removing the KNH budget from its protected position by involving the MOH in the negotiation of the KNH
budget and capping it as a percentage of the MOH budget.
5



PART I: Implementation Assessment                                            Page 6 of 13
22.   In addition, the following factors are expected to further increase the hospital's capacity for
revenue generation: (i) a pending fee increase, currently under review by the hospital board; (ii) the
project-fiinanced expansion of the private wing; and (iii) the leasing of recently-completed, project-financed
private doctor's offices. The latter comprises a complex of 57 offices, a pharmacy, and a laboratory.
While the cu,-rent annual revenue approaches KSH 5 million, there is potential for significantly greater
revenue generatiun, as the current rents charged appear to be significantly below market rates. This should
be addressed duiing the annual review of these charges. Finally, while the financial objectives of the KNH
component were not fully achieved, the experience of this component and the potential for realization of
those objectives in the future indicate that the design was sound.
Nairobi Area Health Services
23.    The NAHS component produced a satisfactory strategic plan for Nairobi Area at the outset, as
scheduled. However, there were unrealistic expectations at the pace of change that could be expected at
NCC clinics (and thus the pace of decongestion at KNH) after the formulation of this strategic plan. Due
to insufficient cooperation between NCC and MOH, the commitment to implement the NAHS component
developed only gradually. These delays were partially attributable to the fact that the Ministry of Local
Government and relevant local authorities had not been involved during project preparation, though their
support was necessary for successful implementation. Approximately a year before the original closing
date, an implementation proposal was finally prepared and approved by the Bank. Despite clear guidelines
in the plan, services throughout the area only marginally improved, and shortages of drugs, staff and
supplies led to lack of service available at NCC clinics.
24.    With an original closing date of June 30, 1997, contracts for the rehabilitation of 14 of the 46 NCC
clinics under this component were awarded in November, 1996 -- with an estimated completion time of 6-7
months. Given that it was uncertain at that time whether the project would be extended, and given the
problematic history of civil works in Kenya projects, the Bank should not have given "no objection" for the
award of these contracts. Even with the one-year extension, works at many of the sites remained
incomplete at project closing, with three clinics still closed and several more only partially operational
(Appendix B). NCC has informed IDA that it is completing all the works using its own funds, and that all
the clinics will be fully operational by January 1, 1999. Though work has continued since project closing
and some progress is evident, the history of these works indicates that this is unlikely. Supervision of these
works by NCC has been inadequate.
25.    The PMO-Nairobi has responsibility for secondary/hospital-based services in the Nairobi area
(except KNH), and it was envisioned that the project would finance the conversion of three facilities to
serve as provincial and district hospitals for Nairobi. The mid-term review re-allocated US$4.5 million
from KNH to the NAHS component to complete and upgrade three hospitals, though delays in preparing
the proposals for these activities led to their cancellation at the time of the extension. However, despite the
fact that it also received project support only in the form of equipment, one facility -- Mbagathi Hospital,
formnerly an infectious disease facility that was part of KNH -- was opened as a district hospital for the
Nairobi area.
Health Planning and Policy
26.    This project was intended to create an enabling environment for decentralization and health sector
reforrn. Support was provided to develop plans for decentralization of fiscal responsibilities, which was
then to be piloted under the Kenya STI Project (Cr. 2686). The project also facilitated the development of
the "Health Policy Framework Paper (1994)" which has become the guiding document for the current
6



PARTI: ImDlementation Assessment                                           Page 7of13
Health Sector Reform Program. Numerous other studies were prepared under the credit which further
helped establish a strong foundation for the reform program, these are detailed in Table 7. In addition,
numerous activities were financed during the last 18 months of the project to support the nascent Health
Sector ReforTn program: (i) special studies and pilot tests on resource needs leading to the preparation of
business plans for four district hospitals in preparation for the piloting of the Ministry's Hospital
Autonomy Concept in district hospitals; (ii) support to the Health Sector Reform Secretariat in the form of
vehicles, equipment, and operations and maintenance support.
27.    The capacity of the Division of Planning and Development was strengthened through the (i)
provision of technical assistance; (ii) local and international training for staff; and (iii) the procurement of
computer hardware and software. To strengthen the planning function of the Ministry, supervision
missions repeatedly urged that the Planning Unit of MOH be headed by a Chief Economist. This was
adopted, and the position is currently held by a Deputy Chief Economist. However, the recommendation
that the MOH hire its own economists who would identify with the Ministry, has not been implemented.
Thus, all economists still belong to the Ministry of Planning and are subject to frequent turnover.
Welfare Monitoring System Component
28.    Following effectiveness, tle component experienced problems in accessing and utilizing project
funds. This appears to be largely due to delays in decision-making and payment processing, but also due to
the fact that neither the Human Resources and Social Services Department (HRSSD) nor CBS had any
experience with IDA projects. Despite their lack of familiarity with IDA rules and procedures being cited
repeatedly in the Aide Memoires of the WMS supervision missions, sufficient action was not taken by the
GOK or the Bank. In addition, the rapid turnover of staff and loss of experienced staff within CBS
resulted in declining capacity and created systemic problems. Despite these constraints, CBS conducted
three welfare monitoring surveys. This component provided the household data for the Bank's 1995 Kenya
Poverty Assessment, and the data was instrumental in the preparation of the Poverty Profile for Kenya. In
addition, other reports based on this data have contributed to the national debate on poverty.
29.    The analytical sub-component received substantial parallel financing from GTZ, with that agency
financing a long-term social policy advisor, a budget to support some of the analytical activities detailed in
the SAR, and substantial training. HRSSD successfully conducted a Participatory Poverty Assessment
that has been a model for other such assessments in Africa. On the other hand, five studies were planned to
be financed by the Bank, but satisfactory TORs had not been completed by the original project closing
date, and these activities were canceled at that time.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Beyond the Government's Control
30.    Factors which lay outside the control of the Government of Kenya that were seen to have a
significant, negative effect on project implementation were: (i) an economic downturn since 1992/93
which led to high inflation and the depreciation of the Kenyan shilling, resulting in cost variations, as well
as constraining counterpart funds; (ii) the poor performance of the original civil works contractors at KNH,
leading to the appointment of MOPW to supervise the works, and (iii) delays related to the Bank's internal
re-organization in 1996 (see Bank Performance).
7



PART I: Implementation Assessment                                           Page 8 of 13
Factors Under the Government's Control
31.   Implementation of this project was seriously hampered by numerous factors which were within the
control of the Government. Perhaps the most significant of these was the inordinately slow processing of
payment applications. Other factors include: (i) coordination of the four loosely-related components
across multiple institutions proved unworkable, and the MOH lacked the authority to coordinate the
various agencies involved; (ii) the poor performance of the MOPW in supervising the KNH civil works,
once responsibility for this supervision was shifted to that Ministry; and (iii) the lack of coordination and
consensus under the NAHS component.
Factors Under the Implementing Agency's Control
32.    Finally, under the control of the implementing agency were other detrimental factors: (i) though
the slow payments were partially attributable to the Ministry of Finance, the MOH's own processes and
inefficiency contributed to the delays; (ii) the lack of capacity in the MPND to implement IDA projects was
not adequately addressed by the Government (or IDA) despite being repeatedly mentioned in supervision
missions' Aide Memoires; (iii) inadequate supervision by NCC of the civil works at NCC clinics; (iv) the
delays in KNH civil works caused by the hospital being slow in turning over parts of the hospital to the
contractor; (v) weak procurement capacity, with the Ministry showing a weak commitment to address this
deficiency; and (vi) weak implementation capacity in MOH and NCC.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.    The outlook for project sustainability is uncertain. In the KNH component, it is likely that the
ongoing strengthening of capacity and hospital systems will result in continued improvement in the
hospital's performance indicators. The expected increases in revenue generation and the fair prospects for
NCC facilities to take at least some of the primary care burden off KNH indicates that congestion should at
least stop worsening, and may improve partially. The hospital has prepared a preventive maintenance
program that is expected to be implemented by the end of the year which should contribute to the
sustainability of the investment in physical rehabilitation. In addition, the project-financed experience of
KNH is making the transition to an autonomous institution is serving as a model for the transition to
autonomy at Coast General Hospital in Mombasa and the Eldoret National Referral and Teaching Hospital.
Applying this experience more broadly to the transition of Provincial hospitals to autonomy might be
addressed in the context of the Health Sector Reform Program.
34.    The prospects for sustainability of investments under the NAHS component are less certain, as it is
yet unclear when the remaining civil works will be complete and all the facilities fully operational.
Proposed increases in user fees and recent changes mandating that 100 percent of user fees be maintained
by the facilities increase the chances for proper maintenance of the investment. NCC has assured the Bank
that a preventive maintenance plan will be developed and implemented by January 1, 1999, though work on
this has yet to begin. It is feared that staffing problems may continue despite recent hiring of large numbers
of doctors and nurses as there is little evidence that traditional problems of disorganized management and
ineffective utilization of staff have been addressed. In addition, the lack of any formal procurement
mechanism for drugs implies that adequate funding alone will be insufficient to ensure a steady and reliable
supply of drugs to NCC facilities, without which decongestion of KNH is unlikely.
35.    The outlook for sustainability of the Health Planning and Analysis component is largely reflected
in the progress of the country's Health Sector Reform program. Though implementation of the program is
8



PART I: Implementation Assessment                                          Pa2e 9 of 13
disappointingly slow, it is progressing and is expected to result in a new IDA Health Sector Development
Credit once sufficient progress is made in the implementation of preparatory activities.
36.    Finally, sustainability of the WMS component is unlikely. There is an urgent need to improve the
CBS's data systems and to improve the quality and timeliness of sectoral statistical systems and statistical
reporting. However, the statistical system as currently structured and resourced is incapable of meeting
these demands. Donor support has been channeled to ad-hoc donor-driven activities, instead of focusing
support on resolving underlying systemic and structural problems, which have worsened. Until these issues
are addressed, further ad-hoc support is unlikely to yield any useful long-term benefits.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   Identification and Preparation was satisfactory in the Borrower's cognizance of the critical issues
to be addressed and an expressed political will to institute the necessary reforns; however preparation was
hampered due to capacity constraints, a lack of internal consultation, and a lack of experience with Bank
projects in the sector. At Appraisal, the Borrower's performance was not satisfactory. The Government's
irresolution on the issue of re-instatement of user charges at health facilities indicated a lack of appreciation
of and commitment to the recurrent cost implications of the proposed investment, and this endangered the
progress of the project. Regarding the KNH component, the hospital overestimated the speed with which
they would turn over sections of a hospital to the contractor for rehabilitation.
38.    During Implementation, Borrower performance was mixed. Except for the issue of late payments
which caused significant delays in civil works across the project, implementation of the KNH component
and the Health Planning and Analysis component was largely satisfactory. Implementation of the two
components requiring inter-Ministry cooperation was unsatisfactory. This is largely due to the difficulties
encountered in implementing the components across multiple Ministries, and the lack of capacity in the
ministries that were paired with the Ministry of Health. Performance across all components improved
significantly in the final year of the project.
BANK PERFORMANCE
39.   Identification and Preparation. Project Identification focused mainly on KNH, and successfully
identified the critical issues and areas in which IDA-financed intervention was necessary and appropriate.
Project Preparation was satisfactory for the KNH component. The Bank preparation team prepared
extensive analysis of the situation at KNH, complemented by additional work done by USAID, which
evolved into a well-designed component. Preparation of the NAHS component was unsatisfactory, as
much of "preparation" was left to take place during implementation. Preparation of the Health Planning
and Analysis component was satisfactory, and no WMS component was planned at this stage.
40.   Project Appraisal The Bank's performance at this stage was unsatisfactory overall, but merits
examination by component:
a.     KNIH Component: Appraisal was marginally satisfactory in the case of this component, with most
relevant risks being identified. One significant risk that was not addressed was the risk of having
the success of the KNH component partially contingent on an NAHS component which was
hampered by numerous risks. In addition, the performance targets proved unrealistic.
9



PART I; Implementation Assessment                                          Paze 10 of 13
b.    NAHS Component: In this case, appraisal was not satisfactory. The only risk identified was the
weak political consensus among the relevant actors, and this was not given sufficient attention as
evidenced by the fact that the Ministry for Local Government (since renamed Ministry of Local
Authorities) was not involved. In addition, the SAR failed to identify as risks (i) the lack of
capacity in NCC to implement the project and supervise the activities to be financed, and (ii) the
unclear implementation arrangement across ministries which both suffered from weak capacity.
c.    Health Planning and Analysis Component:  Appraisal of the Health Planning and Analysis
Component was satisfactory.
d.     WMS Component: Appraisal of this component was not satisfactory. The appraisal mission took
place after the project had been negotiated. Though there had been two previous missions by the
Bank's Statistical unit, this project's managing unit was not involved, and it was treated from the
beginning as a detached project. Neither the risks of this approach nor the risk posed by the
unclear implementation arrangement across ministries that both suffered from weak capacity were
addressed.
41.   Supervision. Bank performance at this stage was deficient. The project documentation indicates
much less-intensive follow-up by the Bank and less in-depth scrutiny of critical issues and problems than
during preparation. The quality of supervision was mixed. With regards to the KNH component,
supervision was largely satisfactory. Supervision was also satisfactory for the Health Planning and
Analysis component. However, for the NAHS component, supervision was unsatisfactory. Throughout
supervision, the WMS component was treated as a separate project, with separate supervision missions --
only one paragraph in the Mid Term Review is dedicated to this component. This resulted in the
component receiving insufficient support from the MOH, as the main implementing agency, and the World
Bank's task teamn. Fragmented responsibility and accountability on the part of the Bank contributed to the
implementing agencies' lack of familiarity with IDA procedures and an inability to operate in accordance
with them.
42.    Overall, the Bank was overly optimistic in assigning project ratings until the last two years of the
project. The Borrower also indicated that the Africa Region's 1996 re-organization had a negative effect on
the project, with the quality of supenrision and responsiveness by IDA greatly decreased during the one-
year following the re-organization. The Borrower was dissatisfied with the confusion and uncertainty over
the project extension, with a decision not being made until two days before the scheduled closing date.
Supervision of all components improved significantly after the naming of a new task team for the one-year
extension period, as evidenced in increased Borrower satisfaction and drarnatic improvements in
implementation. Notably, intensified supervision was achieved without increased resources for supervision
due to an increased reliance on field office and operations staff for non-technical aspects of supervision.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.    Overall, the project's outcome was marginally satisfactory, with the improved performance of both
the Borrower and the Bank in the final year ameliorating the unsatisfactory outcome that would have
resulted had the project closed on the original closing date. While the KAVH component failed to achieve
its main objective of reducing KNH's burden on the MOH budget, the investment and implementation
experience of this component has reversed the contentious nature of issues regarding hospital autonomy and
the authority to generate and retain revenues from cost sharing. The GoK is now ready to repeat this
experience by granting autonomy to additional hospitals. The existence of a national teaching hospital that
10



PARTI1 Implementation Assessment                                          Page 11 of 13
has become autonomous, generates a substantial percentage of its recurrent expenditures from cost sharing,
and at the same time has managed to improve the quality of care, is unique in the region.
44.    The outcome of the NAHS component was clearly unsatisfactory, with the development objectives
not being achieved, uncertain prospects for sustainability, and the civil works comprising the main activity
under this component being unfinished. The objectives of the Health Planning and Analysis component
were largely achieved, and its outcome can be rated satisfactory. Finally, the Welfare Monitoring System
component, despite the objectives of the statistical sub-component being substantially fulfilled, had an
unsatisfactory outcome due to the poor prospects for sustainability and the partially unrealized objectives
of the analytical sub-component. Given that most of the project activities and procurement were completed
so near the project closing, these assessments are largely based on preliminary indications of impact.
Therefore, it is strongly recommended that an impact evaluation study be conducted approximately 12
months following the publication of this report.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
45.    First, the Government should complete the civil works at the NCC clinics, and their completion
should be a condition of appraisal of the next IDA credit to the health sector. Second, a satisfactory
preventive maintenance plan should be developed and effected, as has been done at KNH, to ensure
sustainability of the Government and IDA's investment in these clinics. Finally, the Strategic Plan for
health services in the Nairobi area should be implemented. The Health Sector Reform Program should
include comprehensive provisions to address the deficiencies in the management and operation of these
facilities. While the planned piloting of contracts with private firms to operate rehabilitated clinics presents
a feasible option that might later be expanded, an interim solution should be enacted, such as transferring
responsibility and resources for these facilities to the MOH, or at least increasing the MOH's authority
over these facilities.
46.   While it is important that KNH be assured of the resources necessary to sustain the project's
investment and the resulting progress, its share of health budget resources is disproportionately large.
Considering its demonstrated (and growing) ability to generate revenue, sharp reductions in the MOH grant
to KNH are warranted. An aggressive target in this regard should be a condition of the proposed IDA
Health Sector Development Credit. In addition, the Government should commission a study of whether,
and to what degree, the support provided to KNH is an appropriate model for other hospitals undergoing
the transition to autonomous institutions. Considering that it is already being used as a model for two such
transitions, this study should be implemented promptly as a preparatory activity for the Health Sector
Reform Program. With regard to the latter, the inputs financed under this project are becoming dated due
to the slow pace of the reforms program, and the sustainability of this investment requires the MOH to
intensify its commitment to advancing the implementation of that program.
47.   A Task Force--comprising Ministry of Finance, Central Bank of Kenya and MPND--was
established in April, 1998, to prepare a Strategic Plan for statistics to articulate goals for the statistical
system for next decade, the outputs and services that it would be expected to deliver in order to achieve
these goals, and the resources and means by which they would be delivered. This Task Force will address
the need for strengthening and reform of CBS, with its report expected in April, 1999. This report will the
basis against which donors will be requested to pledge support.
11



PARTI: Implementation Assessment                                           Paze 12 of 13
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
48.   A number of key lessons can be drawn from the experience of this project:
(i)   Implementation across Ministries: Implementation of projects across ministries is difficult,
especially when the lines of authority, support arrangements, and expectations of interaction
between mninistries are not clearly defined.
(ii)    Relevance of Components: Components that are not consistent with the core purpose of a project
should not be added for reasons of expediency rather than relevance, especially if additional
ministries would become involved.
(iii)  Inter-dependence of Components: When the ability of one component to achieve its objectives is
dependent on the success of another component, the relationship between the components must be
considered at appraisal and throughout implementation, with particular attention to (i) timing of
activities in one component relative to those in the other, (ii) relative degrees of preparation, (iii)
relative levels of capacity, (iv) susceptibility of each component to risks relative to the other.
(iv)   Closing Dates: Decisions to extend projects should be made sufficiently in advance to allow for
continuity of activities and maximum utility of the extension. Activities likely to extend beyond the
closing date should not be approved prior to the official extension of a project.
(v)    Stakeholder Consultation:  Key stakeholders, particularly those with an important role in
implementation, should be involved from project identification, through preparation and appraisal,
and throughout implementation.
(vi)   Monitorable Indicators: Clear performnance indicators should be agreed upon at appraisal to
ensure effective and timely implementation, and to enable proper monitoring. Annual Workplans/
implementation plans also contribute to the depth and quality of supervision.
(vii)  Procurement Capacity: Procurement capacity should be thoroughly assessed at appraisal, and
provisions made at that time to address any inadequacies in capacity. The use of an independent,
external procurement agent can contribute to successful implementation through facilitating
procurement and building capacity.
(viii)  Importance of Close Monitoring and Supervision:  The experience of this project clearly
illustrates the relationship between intensified supervision and implementation progress. The
impressive achievements of the final year of implementation and the improved relationship with the
Borrower are largely due to intensified supervision by IDA.
(ix)   Counterpart Funds and Financial Management: A further rationalization of the GoK's portfolio
of projects, consistent with the Bank's CAS, is required, as evidenced by the implementation delays
caused by the unavailability of the required GoK counterpart funding. In addition, strengthened
financial management and the introduction of accountability measures are necessary to avoid
repeated implementation delays.
12



PARTI: ImvlementationAssessment                                           Page 13 of 13
Box: 1: Health Rehabilitation Project Positively Impacts KNH's Ability
to Handle Bomb Blast Crisis
On August 7, 1998, a terrorist bomb exploded in downtown Nairobi, killing 253 people and injuring more
than 5,000 others. This placed an enormous strain on Nairobi-area health facilities as victims, with
varying degree of injuries, arrived hundreds at a time requiring emergency medical treatment. As the
largest of Kenya's hospitals, KNH treated the greatest number of victims. On the day of the bombing,
1,500 people arrived at KNH, with 341 ultimately being admitted and 1,159 being treated and released.
World Bank Health staff had the opportunity to witness how the hospital and its staff handled the crisis.
Though the hospital was initially overwhelmed by the massive influx of injured, an impressive triage
system was in place within the hour, and hospital staff were seen to be functioning in an efficient and
organized manner. The capacity of the hospital and the staff to manage the crisis so effectively was
partially credited to the impact of the physical rehabilitation and institutional development financed by the
Health Rehabilitation Project. Ministry of Health and KNH officials cited the following areas as those in
which the project-financed activities had the greatest impact on their ability to handle the crisis:
*  Casualty (Emergency)Ward: The civil works under the project had replaced a small, poorly-equipped
casualty ward with a larger, better-equipped and more efficiently-designed ward and outpatient clinics.
As this was the point of entry for the injured, this improvement was viewed as pivotal in KNH's
successful management of the crisis.
*  Training: The Borrower's Evaluation Report cited the training of staff as one of the project activities
having the most positive impact on the facility. The increased capacity resulting from the large volume
of training (particularly in emergency and trauma medicine) financed under the project was credited
with providing crucial staff with the technical and management skills necessary to handle the crisis.
*  Equipment: Most of the equipment procured under the project had been delivered to the hospital
during the weeks immediately prior to the bombing, and some of the equipment proved invaluable to
staff provide better care to a greater number of patients.
13



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table la: Summary of Assessments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     ;... . .   ..    ,;......  ...    rrr.............,
gg':'" 0|00|:,, 0'5:| : .'l0|:$:0.g;lSENg$ubstantial;0:00::0                    : ParStial X 00ggi:jX 0 ti:00;7;;Negligible    No aplicbl
A. Achievement of objectives
macro policies                                                                                                          X
sector policies                                     X
financial objectives                                                      X
institutional development                                                 X
physical objectives                                                       X
poverty reduction                                                                                                       X
gender issues                                                                                                           X
other social objectives                                                   X
environmental objectives                                                                                                X
public sector management                                                  X
private sector development                                                                                              X
........    -    - Likely             Unlikely               ne
B.  Project sustainability                       _______   ______________EEEEEEEEEEN)EP S
Highly  Satisfactory           Defi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... .......
Eggagggagg  g gaaa   . 0 Xsatisfactory   0    ;-g  000;;000000 . 0 00 i   ;;  04 0..  uns.. .. fa. tory
C.  Bank performance                                               _ ____________  ____________  ___________..
identification                                                            X             ____________
preparation  assistance                                                   X                           :_____    _______
appraisal                                                        __        ____X______
supervision                                                      _     _____X______
D.  Borrower performance                                              _____________                                  ______
preparation                                                               X             ____________
implementation                                                   _______X                                     _____
covenant compliance                                                       X             ____________
operation                                                                 X             ____________
E. Assessment of outcome                                                X                    _______ X___________ 00X0000 0
14



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table lb: Summary of Assessments
Kenyatta National Hos ital Component
Substant      ial             Negligible   Not PPr
A. Achievement of objectives                     X
macro policies                                                                 X
sector policies                   X                     _
financial objectives                             X
institutional development         X
physical objectives               X
poverty reduction                                                              X
gender issues                                                                  X
other social objectives                          X
environmental objectives                                     _                 X
public sector management          X       _               _
private sector development                                                     X
Likely       UnlikelyyUUncrtain
B. Project sustainability            X
Highly      Satisfactory   UnsaUtstory ;      i-  y
satisfactory   .:satfactory
C. Assessment of outcome                            X
15



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table Ic: Summary of Assessments
Nairobi Area Health Services Component
ubstanitial      Partal       Negligible   No a P.licable.
A. Achievement of objectives    _                             _
macro policies                                                                X
sector policies                .                               X
financial objectives                            X
institutional development                       X       _
physical objectives                             X
poverty reduction                                                             x
gender issues                                       ___                       X
other social objectives                                        X
environmental objectives                                                  _  X
public sector management                                       X
private sector development                                                    X
Likely 7     Unli el       Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                           X
Highly  Satisfactory Unstisatory     1
=satisfactoryN                             Unsat ifato.
C. Assessment of outcome                                           X
16



PART IH: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table Id: Summary of Assessments
Health Planning and Anal sis Component.
Su bta            Partial      Negligible    Not applicoblo
A. Achievement of objectives   _
macro policies
sector policies                  X
financial objectives             X
institutional development        X       __      _
physical objectives              X                                     _
poverty reduction                                                            X
gender issues                                                                X
other social objectives    _ _X                                              X
environmental objectives                                                     X
public sector management                        X     _
private sector development
K 'K.  w.  .Lely                    -Ulikely       Uncertain
Likely
B. Project sustainability            X                                              -_',,
Highly     Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory      i
satisfactory                              u satisfactory
C. Assessment of outcome                           X
17



PARTII: Sta#isticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table le: Summary of Assessments
Welfare Monitoring S stem Component
tial g :Paria       Negigible:  Not applicable|
A. Achievement of objectives
macro policies                                                                X
sector policies                                 X
financial objectives                                                          X
institutional development                       X
physical objectives                             X
poverty reduction                X
gender issues                                                  x
other social objectives                                                       X
environmental objectives                                                      X
public sector management                                       x
private sector development                                                    X
Likely       Unlikly       Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                           X
.....8.Highly 7,    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Highly
s~i ~atisfactory    .unsatisfactory
C. Assessment of outcome                                           X
18



PART 11: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Past Operahons
1. First Population Project   The project objective was to significantly reduce the  1974       Closed
(US$ 12 million)       population growth rate.
2. Second Population Project The project objectives were to (i) reduce fertility, and (ii)    1983  Closed
(US$ 23 rnillion)      improve accessibility and quality of rural health services.
Parallel Operations
1. Third Population Project  The project objectives were to: (i) strengthen capacity of  1988  Closed June,
(US$ 12.9 million)    the National Council for Population and Development;                  1996
(ii) create demand for Family Planning services through
IEC activities; and (iii) increase the availability,
accessibility, and quality of Family Planning services.
2. Fourth Population Project The project objectives were to: (i) strengthen capacity of  1990  Closed June,
(US$35 million)        the National Council for Population and Development;                1998
million)       (ii) create demand for Family Planning services through
IEC activities; and (iii) increase the availability,
laccessibility, and quality of Family Planning services.
Following Operations
1. Sexually Transmitted     The project objectives are to: (i) strengthen the      1995       On-Going
Infections Project      institutional capacity at the national and district levels to       Closing
design, implement, monitor and evaluate interventions;            December,
(US$40 million)       (ii) promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of              2000
STI transmission; and (iii) enhance both health sector
and community provision of physical and psychological
care and develop strategies to mitigate the socio-
economic consequences of STI/HIV.
Planned Oerations
1. Health Sector Reform     An APL which will support the Government of Kenya in   Planned,
Project                  implementing its Health Sector Refonm Program which    2000
focuses on (i) equitable allocation of government
resources; (ii) increased cost effectiveness of resource
allocation; (iv) continued management of population
growth; (iv) enhanced regulatory role of he government;
(v) increased private sector and community involvement
in the health sector; and (vi) increased and diversified
__ per capita flows to the health sector.
19



PARTII: StatisjicalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                                                April-May, 1989
Preparation                           August, 1989              August, 1989
Appraisal                           May-June, 1990             October, 1990
March, 1991 (WMS)
egotiations                        February, 1991             February, 1991
Board Presentation                     July, 1991              November, 1991
Signing                           December 11, 1991         December 11, 1991
Effectiveness                        March 12, 1992             July 7, 1992
Mid-Term Review                    September 30, 1993          March 31, 1994
Project Completion                    June 30, 1995             June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                          June 30, 1997             June 30, 1998
20



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
aL                                                .D S f-    .-'J i)~~~~~~~~U  f Credit
FY1992  Q3        1.70        1.70          0.00           0.00                  0
Q4     0.80        2.50           0.00           0.00                  0
FY1993  Ql       0.90        3.40           3.28           3.28                10.6
Q2     0.95        4.35           0.19           3.47                11.2
Q3     0.95        5.30           0.01           3.48                11.2
Q4      1.20       6.50           0.00           3.48                11.2
FY1994  Q1        1.25       7.75           0.14           3.62                11.7
Q2      1.55       9.30           0.18           3.80                12.3
Q3      1.25       10.55          0.11           3.91                 12.6
Q4      1.25       11.80          -0.49          3.42                 11.0
FY1995  Ql        1.85       13.65          0.22           3.64                 11.7
Q2      1.85       15.50          0.29           3.93                12.7
Q3      1.55       17.05          0.00           3.93                 12.7
Q4      1.85       18.90          0.12           4.05                13.1
FY1996  Ql        1.55       20.45          1.86           5.91                19.1
Q2      1.85       22.30          0.48           6.39                20.6
Q3      1.60       23.90          1.57           7.96                25.7
Q4      1.50       25.40          0.75           8.71                28.1
FY1997  Q1        1.60       27.00          0.88           9.59                30.9
Q2      1.50       28.50          0.49           10.08               32.5
Q3      1.30       29.80          0.94           11.02               35.5
Q4      1.20       31.00          0.89           11.91               38.4
FY1998  Q1                                  1.60           13.51               43.6
Q2                                1.19           14.70               47.4
Q3                                1.21           15.91               51.3
Q4                                2.32           18.23               58.8
FY1999  Ql                                  7.66          25.89                83.5
Q2                                 1.60         27.49                91.6
21



PART 11: Statistical Annexes
SAR Esfimates and Actual Disbursments
35.00
4A.   30.00
U,
_ 25.00                    .............
20.00                                                                 SAR
E    1500         D                                          X 
15.0                                             **~~~~~~~~~~~~~Actual
1 10.00
5.0
.           A 5. 0       b N   N,
Quarters
22



PART II: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                              Table 5: Kev lndicators of Project Imvlementahon
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 5: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
m_0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
A. Rehabilitation of Kenyatta National Hospit I_____
l. Physical Rehabilitation of Hos,oital           %100%                     100% 
2. Equipment of Hospital                           %          100%           63%      Some lots were not given "no objection" as the credit was, at the time of
____________      contract award, fully committed.
3. Hospital fulfillment of performance objectives (8):  number  8             2       Despite impressive improvements in performance, original targets proved
see Table 15                                                                          to be overly-ambitious. These should have been revised at mnid-tern
_______________    ____________    review  to  be more  realistic.
4. Training of staff                            number         135           135
5. ShareofMOHBudget                                %          11.9%         16.9%     11.9% is the target for 1995/96, the last year for which targets were
defined by IDA. GOK target for 1997/98 was 13.0%
6. Decongestion of KNH                          number                                Unable to be fulfilled due to being contingent on success of Nairobi Area
of out-    <500,000       804,000    component, which was being implemented concurrently and sufTered
patients                             severe delays.
B. Nairobi Area Health Services
1. Rehabilitation of 14 NCC clinics            %              100%           85%      One zone was 100% complete; the other two zones were 80% complete.
2. Equipment of NCC clinics                     %              100%          100%     All planned procurements completed.
3.   Rehabilitation of Matharere and Mbagathi  %              100%           0%       Canceled at time of extension.
Hospitals and Pumnwani
4. Adoption of Strategic Health Plan for Nairobi             Adopted       Adopted    Plan was adopted, but implementation has been insufficient.
Area
S. Increased utilization                        number         n/a           n/a
of out-
_________________________________________________   patients
6. Training of staff                              % of      Int'l: 100%   Int'l: 95%   Capacity was lacking in NCC to organize local training programs.
Planned    Local: 100%    Local: 20%  1
Note: No performance indicators were provided in the Staff Appraisal Report. These indicators have been developed from the staff appraisal report.
23



PART!!: StatisficalAnnexes                                                                                 Table 5: Key Indicators qf Project Jmnlementaton
C. Health Planning and Analysis= 
1. Completion of studies                         ntunber         6             6       See Table 7|
2. Foster future Health Sector Reform           appraisal       1994        Planned    At time of project effectiveness, it was envisioned that a Health Sector
of new                    FY2001    Reform credit would be effective in 1994.
credit
3. Share spent on preventive & promotive          % of         25%            28%      Assumes a targeted increase of 2 percentage points annually.
~~~~~~~                                      ~~~~~budget   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4. User Fees: Collections per year                KSH       400 million    400 million
D. National Household Welfare Monitoring and Evaluation System
1.   Submission  of satisfactory  implementation  Y/N           Yes           Yes
program
2. statistical sub-component
a. Strengthen district level CBS office network  Y/N         Yes           Yes      Reduced delays and improved quality of survey returns.
b. finalize new master sample frame             date         1994          1994
complete
c. develop improved designs for household      date          1994          1994
surveys                                    complete                          . .
3. analytical sub-component (HRSSD)
a. Improve quality of in-depth analysis         Y/N          Yes            No
b. Increase utility of outputs to decision-makers  Y/N       Yes            No
24



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                  Table 6: Ke Indicators for Proect Overation
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Kenyatta National Hospital
Physical Rehabilitation of Hospital    Institution of Preventive     Actual and budgeted O&M       Target will continue to be 6.0%.
Maintenance and Safety Plans    expenditures still below target of  Implementation of new
6.0% of recurrent budget      programs and completion of
rehabilitation will raise actual.
Equipment of Hospital                  Training on proper use of                                   Savings generated by use of new
equipment being provided;                                   equipment to be set aside for
service contracts for                                       their replacement at end of
maintenance.                                                useful life.
Improved Performance as measured by    KNH continues to set annual   With the closing of the credit, it  Continuing health sector reform
Performance Indicators                 performance targets and monitor is not clear that there is a body    program and transition to
its own performance.         outside KNH to whom the       autonomy of other hospitals will
institution is accountable for its  include intensified monitoring
performance by these measures.  of how these institutions
perform.
Increased Capacity                     KNH continues to develop      KNH has proven able to retain    Staff trained under the credit
annual training plans and set    staff upon their return from  will continue to serve as trainers
aside substantial annual training  training, so this is not a  within the facility to pass on the
budget.                       problem.                      skills/knowledge gained.
Increased Revenue Generation           Further increase in fees under    Share of MOH budget to KNH    Annual review of fees charged.
consideration; in-demand      has not decreased. Rent charged
private wing expanded with   at private doctors' offices
recently-increased fees; and  appears to be below market.
private doctors' offices now
complete.
25



PART II: Statistical Annexes                                                                         Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Nairobi Area Health Services
Physical Rehabilitation of 14 Clinics      (i) Facilities being completed  (i) Unfinished works. (ii) Lack   (i) Tentative commitment to
with GOK funds. (ii) User fees   of preventive maintenance plan   produce and implement a
now retained 100% at facility,    or other formal provision for  maintenance plan by Jan. 1,
so facility has funds available  sustainability of investment. (iii)  1999. (ii) User fees to be
for its own maintenance. (iii)  Lack of some materials needed    increased. (iii) Additional cost
Cost-sharing fees under review.   for proper maintenance. (iv)   sharing revenues from other
Prospects for "contracting out"    activities dedicated to maintain
rehabilitated clinics to private    facilities.
sector are uncertain, though
there is much interest in NCC
and MOH in proceeding.
Equipment of Clinics                       User fees now retained 100% at   Lack of formal plan for         Tentative commitment to
facility, so facility has funds  maintenance and upkeep of       include equipment in promised
available for upkeep, repair and   equipment.                    maintenance plan.
replacement of equipment, and
these fees are under review.
Increased Capacity                         (i) Short-tenn training to be                                    Budget for training to be
financed by NCC to keep skills                                   implemented.
up-to-date. (ii) Preparation of
annual training plans continue.
Health Planning and Analysis                        _._                   .
Promotion of Health Sector Refonr          Continued preparation, and       Slow progress of Health Sector    Various studies necessary for
initial implementation, of      Reform Program arid              Health Sector Reform to
Health Sector Refonn program.   development of new donor         continue (Mid-Tcrm
projects to support the program.   Expenditure Framework,
National Health Accounts, Legal
Review, and others) are
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __underway  or iunder preparationi.
26



PART II: Statistical Annexes                                                               Table 6: Key lndicators for ProLect Operation
<S1'/<<''' ..
Health  Planning  and Analysis (continued)  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Increased Share of Budget spent on     It is hoped that KNH reliance on  (i) Continued reductions in
Preventive and Promotive Health Services   MOH budget will be reduced,    MOH budget raise concern that
and those savings will enable    this category of spending will be
further increases in preventive    constrained. (ii)Fear that, due
and promotive health care    to detached MOH and KNH
spending.                    budget negotiations, reduced
reliance of KNH on Treasury
may not translate into increased
funds for MOH.
Successful User Fee Program            User Fee System continues to be  Not clear whether newly   Fees continue to be reviewed,
strengthened through         autonomous hospitals will also   and raised periodically.
streamlining and strengthening   have KNH's right to set its own
of procedures, and increased  fees.
fees expected to boost revenue.
Welfare Monitoring System
Strengthened district level CBS office  Task Force preparing National   Inadequate provision for future   Task Force Report and
network                                Statistical Policy and Strategic   funding of CBS, with little  recommendations due in April,
Plan to address sustainability of  current prospect of additional    1999. Expected to form basis
CBS and future of Kenya's    donor support.                for Sessional Paper.
statistical program.
Increased capacity within CBS          Task Force preparing National   Capacity built is threatened by    Task Force Report and
Statistical Policy and Strategic   high staff turnover and  recommendations due in April,
Plan to address sustainability of  inadequate provisions for  1999.
CBS and future of Kenya's    bureau's sustainability.
statistical program.
Note: Indicators were not provided in the SAR or in the President's reports. The above indicators have been developed from the SAR.
27



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                 Table 7: Studies Conducted
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 7: Studies Conducted
1. Nairobi Area Health Services Study: A thorough situation  Development         Completed and        Strategic Plan adopted. Partially
analysis of the NAHS: assess utilization of existing health facilities  Solutions for Africa,   Accepted by  implemented due to inability of NCC to give
and other resources; distribution and coverage and prepare a  Ltd.               Borrower             assurance to IDA that it would fully utilize
Strategic Health Plan for the Nairobi Area, the implementation of                                     and maintain the facilities and equipment
which would relieve congestion at KNH                                                                 included in the Investment Plan (part of
Strategic Plan)
2. Pharmaceutical Procurement and Distribution Study: An in-  Mr. John O'Quick   Completed and        The study recommendations were piloted in
depth analysis of the pharmaceutical procurement and distribution                Accepted by          a number of districts and have now been
system for the MOH and to make recommendations and prepare an                    Borrower            incorporated in the Ministry's rural health
Action Plan. It was also to focus on treatment protocols,                                            facilities.
prescriptions and cost-effective use of drugs.
3. Health Manpower Study: Analysis of stock of MOH manpower   Development        Completed.           The study recommendations have been
by staff category; assess distribution and utilization; focus on  Solutions for Africa,               partially implemented. Further work is
staffing norms and age structure and make appropriate       Ltd.                                      being done to improve staff distribution
recommendations on the future Health Manpower Development and                                         between urban and rural areas in line with
prepare a long-term strategy for education and training of health                                     study recommendations.
personnel, given the MOH policy of shifting more resources toward
preventive, promotive and PHC activities and programs.
4. Curative Gap Study: An assessment of the resource gap for the   Component 1: Mr.    Partially Completed   The Cost and Quality Study showed that the
curative sector for the MOH. The first component, the Cost and  Stephen Mausau,                       Ministry's curative sector is underfunded
Quality of Care analysis, was completed. The second component,    Chartered Accountant.               and cannot sustain the quality of care that
the Family Rationalization Study, was not completed because the                                       private institutions are able to provide. This
consultant hired to conduct the study failed to do so and the contract  Component 2: Mr.              has provided strong rationale for back-
was terminated on instructions from the Attorney General.  Jorgen Jensen                              shifting of curative care to the private/NGO
sector as postulated in Kenya's Health Policy
Framework (November, 1994).
28



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                   Table 7: Studies Conducted
|                                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0                              ImpahofS
5. Study on Rehabilitation Needs of the MOH's Buildings and  Lead Consultants (by   Description of needs   Study has given clear indica.loni of physical
MSajor Efquipment: A survey of the MOH buildings and major   zone)                 and cost estimates    status of MOH buildings and wtiat is
equipment on sample basis; assess rehabilitation needs of these  (i) NMrunu Salman &    completed and    required to put them in a status where they
facilities and prepare estimated costs for each of the six geographic   Associates;  submitted to MOH.    can be put on a Preventive Maintenance
zones for purposes of inciusion in a long-term PIP for the Public  (ii) Triad Architects;                Program.
Health Sector in the context of rehabilitation and consolidation of    (iii) Conte Design
existing infrastructure and biomedical equipment.            Architects;
(iv) Inbred Architects;
(v) Wanjohi
Consulting Engineers;
(vi) Piano Consultant
Architects.
6. Study on Coordination of Intersectoral Activities in Health                     Not Completed.        After initial delays in the implementation of
Sector. To formulate recommendations for increasing coordination                                         this activity, it was canceled by the Borrower
of said activities to improve efficiency and effectiveness.                                              during the mid-term review as it did not
address coordination in the context of a
more decentralized MOH.
29



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 8. Project Costs - Staff Appraisal Report Estimates and Actual Expenditures
(US $ Millions)
AppraisalEstimatesActual
Et~w. category   GoK/KNH    IDA        Total    oYJKh    IDA             tal
1. Civil Works             1.5       13.0      14.5       1.2        11.2     12.4
2. Equipment, Vehicles,
Matefials, and Supplies    -         8.3       8.3        -         8.1      8.1
3. Consultants'
Services,
Studies, and Training      -         8.5       8.5        -         7.8      7.8
4. HIV/AIDS-Related
Supplies                   -         1.2       1.2        -         0.1      0.1
5. Incremental
Operational
Costs*                    2.0         -        2.0        1.0       0.4      1.4
Total project costs        3.5       31.0      34.5       2.2       27.6      29.8
Source: Government of Kenya/Ministry of Health
* The Development Credit Agreement was amended in November, 1997, to allow for the financing of Incremental
Operational Costs which facilitate the implementation of the project.
30



PARTI.: StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 9. Project Financing
(US $ Millions)
IDA                           31.0                 27.6
Govt./KNH                      3.5                 2.2
TOTAL                        34.5                 29.8
Source: SAR and Government of Kenya/Miniistry of Hcalth
31



PARTII StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                                                                  Table 10: Status of LealCovenants
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
1                                                ww~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Article 11     T'he Borroywer shall O,Den and matntain three spDecial accounts  I           C             N/A         NIA    Initially, the accounts were all opened and functioning, KNH account was
Section        (KNH, MOH, and MPND).                                                                                          closed and consolidated with MOH account. As accounting capacity at KNH
2.02 (b)                                                                                                                      increased, it was agreed that a separate account for KNH would be re-opened
in 1996; this was never done as MOH decided it was impractical given that
Dpayments would still have to follow MOH channels.
Artcle III     The Borrower shall make a grant from its own resources to     4              C             N/A         N/A     The budgeted amounts were adequate  Thre was initially a problem of
Setion         KNH in a manmer and at a level satisfactory to IDA                                                             shortfalls in the actual transfers, but this was sttifactorily resolved after the
3.01 (e)                                                                                                                      mid-tern review in 1994.
Article 111    The Borrower shall, by September 30 annually, fumish to IDA   2              C            N/A          N/A     Cornplied.
Section 3.04    evidence of an increase in spending on preventive health
services as a share of both budgeted and actual recurrent
spending by MOH from general revenues.
Article III    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1992, implement the           5              C           3/31/92     3/31/92   The division was rc-organized, but the staffing was considered by IDA to be
Section        reorganization of DPD. ina manner satisfactory to IDA.                                                         unsatisfactory due to transfers back to the Ministry of Planning.  T'he
3.05 (a)                                                                                                                      department was subsequently strengthened with the secondmnent of a Deputy-
Chief Economist and a Senior Economist.
Article III    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1992, establish and           5              C           3/31/92     3/31/92   The committee was formed and continues to function.
Section        thereafter maintair. the MOH Committee on Health Policy,
3.05 (b)       Strategic Planning and Development.
Artck 111      The Boffower shall, by March 31 1992, assume responsibility  2,3, 11         C            311/92     3/31/92   The funds were transferred to KNH.
Secton         for KSH 45 million being KNH's accounts payable as of June
3.06(ts)       30, 1987.
Article III    The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, assume responsibility  2, 3, 11       NC           6/30/93               Kshs. 5.5 million were included in the FY96/97 revised estimates under
Section        for KNH's accounts payable, following confirmation thereof in                                                  Account DII-717-315-000-295 and were disbursed during that FY, and the
3.06 (b)       KNH's audited accounts for 1987/88, 1988/89, and 1989/90.                                                      balance was to be paid in FY97/98. Thus far, none of the balance for this FY
has been paid, and it seems unlikely to be paid.
Artkle III     The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1993, carry out jointly  9             CD           9/30/93     3/31/94   The mid-term review took place in March, 1994.
Section        with IDA and KNH, a mid-term review of the progress in
3.07 (a)       carrying out the project.                                                                                                          .       - -_-.-_._-
Artkile Il     The Bon ower shall implement the recommendations of the       9             CD            N/A         N/A      The recommendations were implemented.
Secton         mid-term review.
3.07(b)                                                                                _  _ __ _  _                           ___ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _
Article IV      The Borrower shall maintain financial records and accounts in  I            C            N/A         N/A      Records and accounts were maintained.
Section        accordance with sound accounting practices in respect of Parts
4.01 (a)       B, C, and D ofthe Project.                                                                                                                       . 
32



PART H: Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                               7c__le 10: Stat_s of Legal Covenanits
, PEA                           Description of Covenant                         Covenant   Present   Origiral  Actual                                                    Comments
type           status           d ate         date
Article IV       The Borrower shall, no later than six months after the end of'      I              C ()            N A          N  \     'These wNere frequently submitted after a delav.
Section          each financial year. submit lor IDA's revievr atidit reports ot'
4.01 (b)         all project accounts, including  those  for the  Special
Accounts.
Article IV       For all expenditures with respect to w%hich credit wN ithdraw als   1               C              N A          N A      'lie recordc \s cre maintained.
Section          for Parts B. C. and D of the P'roject were made on the basis of
4.01 (c) (i)     Statements  of' Expenditure  (SO(11)  the  Borrow%er shall
maintain, in accordance with sound accounting practices.
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures,
Article IV       For all expenditures with respect to which credit withdrawals       I              CD              N A                     l.\ A ie Itorro ser xas iii compaliace, thotighi ith lrequenit delay.
Section          for Parts B, C. and 1) ot'the Project were made on the basis of'
4.01 (c) (ii)    Statements of Expenditure (SOE), the Borrower shall retain
all records as evidence of expenditures until at least one y ear
after II)A has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from  the Credit Account or
payment out ot'the Special Account was made.
Article IV       For all expenditures with respect to which credit ssithdrawals      I               C                           N A       11i Ihorirsser has been in coimpliancc.
Section          for Parts B. C. and D of the Project were made on the basis of'
4.01 (c) (iii)   Statements of Expenditure (SO(). the Borrower shall enable
IDA's representatives to examine such records.
Artide IV        For all expenditures with respect to which credit withdrawals       I              CP              N A          N A        Ihe BoIorroser has been iii compliance until the finial veau. this is still
Section          for Parts B, C. and D of the Project were made on the basis ot'                                                          considered outstanding
4.01 (e) (iv)    Statements of Expenditure (SOE), the Borrower shall ensure
that the audit reports include a separate opinion on the SOE
as to whether the SOEs submitted during such fiscal year
together with the procedures and intemal controls, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Article IV       The Borrower shall reintroduce outpatient consultation user       10. 2             C             I 1 93       1 1 93    'lhe charges were introduced on time
Section          charges at the December 1989 levels by July 1. 1992. at
4.02 (a)         District and Sub-District Hlospitals.
Article IV       The Borrower shall reintroduce outpatient consultation uaser      i0( 2            Cl)            4 1 93       7 1 93    'Ihe charges wvere initroduced alter a delay.
Section          charges at the Deeember 1989 levels by January 1. 1993. at
4.02 (b)         Bealth Centers.
Article IV       The Borrower shall, until completion ot'the Project. maintain   2. 10. 12           C              N A          N A       (;raduated fees, including an appropriate exemption mechanism  for the
Section 4.03     a graduated structure of user fees for healtl services at levels                                                          poor vre in plaice foi KNII provincial and district hospitals. and health
satisf:actory to IDA. ditferenitiating betwieen dispensaries,                                                             centers  'Ihe lee levels \sere increased in October. 1994. lor provincial and
health centers, public hospitals, and KNO. Such structure                                                                distfici hospitals and health centers.  KNlI has w%orked out a newt lee
shall include provisions, satisfactory to IDA. for exemptions                                                            structure which ssas etlected in January. 1997  FIees are constanitly under
based on need.                                                                                                           review, and a proposal to increase fecs was under consideration at time of
_33                                 ICR mission
33



PART II: Statistical Annexes                                                                      ___                                                            Table 10: Statn.s of Legal Covenants
DCA    .RES               Descriv tion of Covenanti;                   Covantovenant    Present   |Oiginal   Actual                                         Comments
type      ~~status               date dt
Schedule 4      The Borrower shall maintain the Nairobi/PHMB chaired by       5 12              C             N A         N A      A Nairobi Hiealth Services Development Plan 1994-2010 has been prepared
Para. 1         the Director of Medical Services which shall oversee the                                                           by a standing conmmittee which was given the responsibility by the Offie
development of the strategic plan. 'The strategic plan shall                                                       ot'the President to prepare a strategic plan for health services in the Nairobi
have the following elements:                                                                                       area.
Schedule 4      (a)   Establishment of an organizational structure with       5. 12             C             N A         N A      'Ihe organizational structure wvas presented to the (0overnment. However.
Para. I (a)     authority, accountability  and  responsibility  for health                                                         D)PNI and Cabinet appro-al hits never been given.
services.
Schedule 4      (b) Coordination of all health services in the area, including  5. 12          CP             N A         N A      'I'he prioritv areas aire outlined in "Nairobi's llcaith Services. Proposals for
Para. 1 (b)     referral protocols and transport arrangements.                                                                     D)onor Assistance. lune 199C" prepared by the Comminttee. Formal reterral
systems are in place for KNII: this process has been facilitated by the
opening ol the Mhlagatlii District Ilospital but hindered by the lack of
progress in the NAIIS NCC component.
Schedule 4      (c) Deployment of' medical faculty from the University of     5. 12             C             N A         N A       Ihis wvas completed except for transport arrangements not being in place.
Par. 1 (c)      Nairobi to extend teaching and training downward from
KNH to secondary and primary tacilities.
Schedule 4      (d) Prepare a Public Investment Progam lor Nairobi which      5. 12            CP             N\ AN \              Rehabilitation is still undenrs av: consolidation is still incomplete: and tuture
Para I (d)      identifies health priorities and proposes to meet them through                                                     provisions are unceflaini lor capital and human resources.
consolidation, rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
facilities  and  luture  capital  and  human  resources
development activities.
Schedule 4      DPD shall prepare and plan future health sector reform under    12              C           6 30 93      6 :31 93   'he M()iJ prepared the HeaIlth Policy Friamenwork  'aper -Investing in
Paras.         the guidance of'the Commitee on Health Policy. Strategic                                                            llealth'.  [he paper was approved by the Cabinet and launched by the
2,3,4,5 & 6     Planning and Development. DPD shall cam  out various                                                               Minister oft lealth in December. 1994  'I[e results ofthe studies have been
studies and complete them by June 30. 1993.                                                                        incorporated in the Policy Framework P'aper and are being used in the
implementation ol the helaltil sector relonn agendal.
Article IV      KNH shall maintain record-s and accounts in accordance with     I               C             N 'A        N A      Records and accounts ssere maintained.
Section         sound accounting practices.
4.01 (a)
Article IV      KNH  shall have  its records, accounts  and  financial          I              CD             N A         N A      'Ihese were completed with delay.
Section         statements (balance sheets. statements of income and
4.01 (b) (i)    expenses. and related statements) for each fiscal year audited.
Article IV      KNH shall fumish to IDA six months after the end of each        I              CD             N A         N A      '     whese were submitted after delays.
Section         fiscal year: (a) certified copies of its financial statements for
4.01 (b) (iu)   such year as so audited. and (b) the report of such audit.
PA Schedule    The Director of KNH shall be responsible for implementation      5               C             N A         N A      Borrowker wkas in compliance.
Para. I         of the Project.  Day-to-day project management shall be
coordinated bv the head ot'the KNH Planning Unit.
34



PART'II: StatisticalAnnexes                                                  7_Tble 1(0. Status of Legal Covenants
. D .A                       Description of Covenant                        Covenant          Present        Original   Actual                                       Comments
. 4erew e       .type                                                                            status           date          date
PA Schedule    KNH shall tumish to IDA at least three months prio,r to the      2. 5. 9. 11         Cl)             N A          \ \ A     BOiTsTsi5 %%as not in compIliance prior to mid-term review. Afierward, the
Para. 2          beginning  of each  tiscal vear, a revised  institutional                                                                 iOTTo5S er ss as inl COIIIpliaWtCe. hu)t \ ith delays in some earlier years.
development plan. a revised training plan and an overall
hospital hudget, including. inter alia. a tee schedule
satisfactory to IDA.
PA Schedule    KNH shall fumish to IDA within one month of the end ot               9                C              N A    \ .\  NOA IToXr r \%as in compliance
Para. 3          each quarter. quarterlyv progress reports.
PA Schedule    KNH will review and revise the perlornance targets annually           9               C              N A          \ A        torower \as III Compliance.
Para 4           in coordination with the preparation of its annual budget and
submit such targets to IDA by March 31 of each year.
PA Schedule    KNII will revise its 5-Year Implementation Plan on a hi-          9. 10. 12          Cl)             N AN .\                [hic plans s\ere submitted to ll)DA iftr delays.
Para. S          annual hasis to he submitted to IDA in .Mav 1992. 1994 and
1996.
PA Schedule    KNH shall fill the positions of' lospital l)irector. Deputy           5              Cl)           9) 0 92       4 i) 9c   (Uomplied \ ith aftic delh\
Para. 6          Director (Clinical Services). Ilead  of' Planning. Deput\
Director ot' Administrative Services. Ilead of' Finance. Ilead
of Personnel and 'Iraining. ChieftAdmiinistrative Ottlicer. and
the Supplies and Procurement Manager by September 30.
1992.
PA Schedule    KNH shall. by June 30. 1992. review its relationship with the         5              CD)           6 3) 92      9 14 91   Agreemeneit reached
Para. 7          lJniversity of Nairobi to reach agreement on the reporting
relationship and coordination of personnel between KNII
and the Universitv.
PA Schedule    KNII shall, by March 31. 1992. develop charges for service,         2. 11            Cl)           3 11 92      12 31 9    KNII introduced imletcrs lor ssatcr and electricity in these institutions so that
Para. 8          rendered to the Kenya Medical Training College and the                                                            6       thev pay directly to the supplying agencies. rather than remimbursing KNIT.
Kenya Medical Research Institute.                                                                                        'lle use of stIudents and lecturers across the institutions is not subject to any
._es trouim either of'the institutions
PA Schedule    KNH shall appoint a Management Advisor under Tenms of'                5               C              N\ A            A      Ihis position Wslas filled: subsequentlIv it was agreed during the Mid-Tenrm
Para. 9          Reference acceptable to Il)A.                                                                                             Revies that this position had become redundant because of the strong
leadership that had developed at K\l .
PA Schedule    KNH  shall introduce  computerization  of accounts  hy             1. 5.9            NC            12 31 94       \N        Mlanagement Accounting I 'nit is in place  Manual accounts wsere set up
Para. Il (i)     D)ecember 31. 1994.                                                                                                       as% itilig computerization. which did not take phlie under the project.
PA Schedule    KNIH shall. from  1995 onwards. prepare quarterly finincial         1. 5. 9           C              N A          N A       Quarterly reports were produced, as required   It is anticipated that the
Para. 10 (ii)    reports to be used as a tool for improved financial forecasting                                                          s'\ stein ill he retined   ith ComTputerization
and management information.
PA Schedule    KNH shall implement a ma(nagement accounting system  by            1. 5. 9           CD                          6 30) 94    KNIt ititroduced a maniagement accounting system. 13udgeting based on
Parat, it (iii)    June 30. 1993.                                                                                                          detined cost  emntcrs %kmll be initiated as soon as the computerization is
eltected.
35



PART II: Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   _                       7able 1O: Status of Legal Covenants
~~~I~UA            Description o~~~f Covenant                       Covenant         Present    Original   Actual                                         Contients
type           status          date         date
PA  Schedule   KNH shall, by June 30. 1993, introduce actual vs. planied            12              Cl)         6 30 93      6 30 97    'he reports are available fromii June 30. 1997. onwards. though manually
Para. 11         budget analysis for all tunctional units and will prox-ide to                                                          produced.
IDA a detailed account for all major deviations.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall cost major medical services and increase 1ies              I. 2            CD)           N A          N .\     Major tec increase  .as last done in Febhmar!. 1997. Minor fee increases
Para. 12         with the aim of full cost coverage Ior out-patients bh  1995.                                                          are madc continuously, ssithinl KNII whel  detennined to be necessary.
KNII shall furnish to IDA for review by March 31 of cach
year its draft budget for the next year. including its proposed
fee structure and depreciation schedule.
PA  Schedule   KNII shall, by September 30. 1993. complete the exercise of          5                C          9 30 93      3 31 93    Borrower is in comnplihuawe.
Para. 13 (i)    transferring stalf who have opted to remain with MOI I. from
KiNH to M(II and resolve any differences in the number of
stalt working vs. the number of statl paid.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall, commencing March. 1992. undertake quarterly               5                C            N \          N A       Ithe Ilospital tozard decided that the review% should be completed on a
Para. 13 (ii)    reviews of authorized pocts and  abolish  non-essential.                                                               yearl hbasi the roost resent review vas; completed by(March 31. 1998.
unfilled posts.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall. by June 30. 1992. adopt those recommendations             5                C          6 30 '92     6 30 92   IBorroxser in .ompliance
Para. 13 (i)    of the l)ept. of Personnel Management Report on the
improvement of the Personnel and 'Iraining functionis vithin
the llospital that would lead to an effective and efficient
Personnel and Training Department.
PA  Schedule   KINH  shall. by June 30. 1992. establish  a Manpower                 5               C           6 3( 92      6 30 92    Ihis exercise s.as .iompleted sith the assistance of persi)nnel/inanpower
Para. 13 (iv)    Infonnation System  comprising ol: inter alia. personnel                                                               consultaits
records, personnel statistics and personnel registry.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall review its training projections in a systematic            5               CD)           N A          N A      The la st rev ies ss as comipleted by March 31. 199X
Para. 13 (v)    manner by March 31 of each year to ensure that the training
programs remain consistent with the overall objectives of the
hospital.
PA  Schedule   KNII shall. by December 31. 1992. undertake an inventorN             5                C          12 31 92     12 31 9    Records ire kept uip to date. Ilis exercise is completed annually
Para. 14 (i)     of existing stocks. write-off obsolete items. bring prices to                                                  2
current price levels, and bring records up to date.
PA  Schedule   KNH   shall.  by   December  31.   1992.  introduce                  5               NC          12 31 92       NC        Ibhis exercise sias conrtingent on the KNII comiputerization. which was
Para. 14 (u)     computerizaition of stock management.                                                                                  canceled due to the unlikelihood of it being coimpleted prior to the project
closing date The co mputerization will take place. financed bv other funds.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall, by December 31. 1992. recruit an inventory                5                C          12 31 92     12 31 9    Person was hired
Para. 14 (ui)    materials management specialist unider tenrs anid conditionis                                                  2
satistactory to IDA.
36



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes                                                   7_able 1J: Status of Legglfvenonts
'a DC             .          ...... Description of Covenant                  Covetiant          Present    Original   Actual                                         Commenlts
.  .~re1,ce                                                                        type            status         date         date
PA  Schedule   Ihe KNH Pharmaceutical Committee shall. bv Decemher 31.               10               C          1231 92       1231 9      ile list is updated arinuall
Part. 15         1992, produce a list of main drugs and pharmaceuticals that                                                      2
are to be used in KNFI. this list will he revised and updated
annually.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall. hy December 31. 1992. establish a Supplies                10. 12            CPl        1 2 3 1 92      CP       i3orrow-er w\'as in comiaphmnce in the areas of drugs and general items.
Para. 16        C(ommittee to monitor consILmption  of' supplies and to
develop a standardized list of supplies to he used at KNIi.
PA  Schedule   KNII shall. by Decemher 31. 1992. develop and implement a            10. 12           CD)          1231 92      1231 9 'Hllis ssas carried out   le.asures to ensure adequate tunds for maintenance
Pard. 17 (i)    system lor pic-v-i.v-s            . ...;                                                                          .1      o cre put iti place, including estallishment ol a separate account
PA  Schedule   KNH shall, by )ecember 31. 1992. develop and implement a             10. 12           Cl)         123192 92       31 9f    lhis  was  irmplemiientcd  alongside  the  overall maititenance  system.
Para. 17 (iu)    safety plan.                                              _-i_ .C phairAc %s as paitial until the conmpletioii ot the civil works.
PA  Schedule   KNlt shall, by l)ecember 31. 1992. prepare proposals for             1(). 12          CD           9 14 94      12 31 9    (D)eadline revised) Thjw has heen completed to the extent possible. It will
Para. 17 (iu)    correct housekeeping procedures.                                                                                 6       he refined now that ci%il is orks are complete and hio mnedical equipment
has been deli scred
PA  Schedule   KNH shall, by December 31. 1992. prepare and implement               I0. 12           C           9 14 94      9 14 94    ()eidline          Cos is,i Cie  of siummaitrv gUidelines submitted to IDA
Para. 17 (iv)    guidelines for the inclusion of maintenance. safety, and
housekeeping criteria in future acquisitions and purchasing.
PA  Schedule   KNNH shall, by December 31. 1992. conduct an assessment of             9               C           ') 14 94     6 30 94    (I)eadline  resiscd)   AlI  areas  srCTe assessed  and  reports prepared.
Para. 18(i)      clinical quality and administrative efficiency in the lolloving                                                          Implementation was initiated and reviessed in June  1994.  Ihe Quality
departments: Laboratorv. Theatre. Pharmacy. CSSI) TISSt.                                                                 A\ssurance I nit his trainied various departments in quality assurance
X-Ray. and Casualty._
PA  Schedule   KNII shall, by June 30. 1995. perform  assessments of                  9               C           6 3ff 95     6 3(1 9'    Assessme1C1Nt siee completed and coniitinue to be conducted on a continuous
Para. 18(i)     etliciency  and  quality  of services  on  all remaining                                                                 fasis
departments.
PA  Schedule   KNH  shall, by April 30. 1993. establish and implement a               9               C           4 3( 93      4 30 93    B3orros er scas in compliaiice. antd the plan has been imnplemented.
Para. 18 (iu)    qualitv assurance plan that is acceptable to IDA.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall, by April 30. 1993. appoint a quality assurance              9               C           5 31 93      5 31 93    Bforrosscr complied by naming manaiger and establishing department. A
Para. 18(iv)     manager at department head level and 1v May 3]. 1993.                                                                    ness manager%wasnaned in 1995
establish a qualitv assurance department.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall, starting in 1993. deline perfonnance targets for           5, 9             C           9 14 94      9 14 94    (revised deadline) D)etaid provided in KNII Annual Workplans.
Para. 19        each functional area and compare them with actual figures at
the end of each year. In 1994. KNH shall define targets for
the number of units to be produced in each functional area
using the data of 1993.
PA  Schedule   KINH  shall, in 1993, calculate the direct costs of each               2               CP            1993         1997      -Iis has been done manually since 1997.  Full coinpliance contingent on
Para. 20        functional area, using the installed cost accounting system,                                                               the canceled KNII computerization.
PA  Schedule   KNH shall operate its Private Wing according to its budget         2. 10. 11            C            N A          N A       -he Private WAing has produced a surplus for the last three years.
Para. 21         and without subsidy from the other operations ot the hospital.
37



I'ART II: Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                                l able 10: Statins of Legal Covenaants
...... g.; .   .     4E    t f"tt    007 000iC    0:: :.. .................  ,,:t;7 fXt::.;! rEC:000
P          iit i;00gi0iigltyEi4:00;00 Description of Covenant                 Covenant          Present    Onginal   Actual                                            Comments
tvpe            status          date         date
PA  Schedule   KNH  shall construct otlice space and  rental to  Ki I                  1W. I           C' P         9 14 94       3 31 98    Constyuction comiplete(d March 31 199X. CUITent rent tees are insutficient
Para. 22         consultants to see and treat private patients.  KNII shall                                                                 to cover actoa .csts. though sill h revieed annuall.
ensure that the operation of the said oflices will not he
suhsidized hy KNIIts other operations.                                               _
Covenant types:                                                                                                                   Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                                             8    Indigenous people                                            C' = coN enaul, complied w ith
2 = Financial perfonnance/revenue                                9 =  Monitoring, review, and reportinig                          CD  - complied Nwithi after delay
generation from  bcneficiarics                               1(= Project Implementation  not cov ered                         CP  - cotriplied \ ith partialh.
3 = Flow  and utilization of prqject funds                             by categories 1-10                                         NC    Not Cotuplied
4 = Counterpart funding                                          11=  Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary
5 = Management aspects of the                                          or other resource allocation
Project or executing agency                                  12 = Sectoral of cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                                            regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involtntary resettlement                                     13 = Other
38



PAJ?T II: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
OD 10.60           Paras. 26-27 of OD 10.60 state that, as a minimum, financial reports should normally comprise a
Accounting,        statement of receipts and payments, as well as total project costs and sources of financing, and that the
Financial          supporting schedules of statements should disclose annual and supplemental budget allotments, actual
Reporting, and     expenditures under each budget category for which Bank financing is furnished, and the actual
Auditing           expenditures and amounts of Bank disbursements claimed. In short, financial reporting should cover
all accounts pertaining to project expenditures, irrespective of sources of financing.
OD 13.10
Borrower           Audits were submitted for all years, though they were usually delayed (submitted after the due date).
Compliance         Separate audit reports were submitted for the three Special Accounts under the project, and for each
with Audit         Part of the project using SOEs (2).
Covenants
OP 6.30            The Bank usually expects the Borrower to demonstrate commitment to the project by making a 10%
Local Cost         minimum contribution to project cost (net of taxes and duties).
Financing and
Cost Sharing       The Borrower's contribution totaled 7.4% percent of total project cost versus the estimated
contribution of 11.3% projected at appraisal.
OD 13.30           The Bank may approve for selected disbursements covering only part of a project to permit (a)
Extension of       implementation of some mutually agreed, high priority contracts; (b) the extension of the validity of
closing dates      letters of credit covered by a special commitment or (c) provision for retention payments, when the
conditions for release (e.g. completion of performance tests or expiration of a warranty period) are
met after the closing date.
The Bank allowed 4 months after the project closing date for disbursements retention payments for a
number of civil works contracts and procurement contracts.
39



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Actual Staff Inputs'
..                /   ..Rei's."
Stage of project     Weeks         US$        Weeks        US$        Weeks         US$
cycle
Preparation to         N/P         N/P         NIP         N/P         162.1       300.3
appraisal
Appraisal              N/P         N/P         N/P         N/P         41.8         70.6
Negotiations           N/P         N/P         N/P         N/P          33.1        80.7
through Board
Approval                                                       _
Supervision'          208.4       394.8       248.7        422.3       273.6       450.6
Completion             16.5        13.7        21.9        20.9         13.3        13.8
TOTAL                  N/P         N/P         N/P         N/P         523.8       918.0
Source: FACT Cost Report run on December 22, 1998
1 Assumes FY1986-FY1995 actual expenditures were equal to planuied (and revised planned). The World Bank Information
System did not retain the "planned" figures for those years.
40



PART11: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                                               Table13: BankResources: Missions
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Ij5 Stage of projects..  Montbl,   Number    IMy                      Specialized staff mm B |if fl lid askill  Implee S   ik    Develop           T       o       I
rsons  field                                   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~status  irnpact
Identification             Apr./May         8           21      Economist, Financial, Insurance, Public                               Re-Introduction of User fees; need to monitor impact of
1989                              Health                                                                user fees on welfare of poor; proposed changes to NHIF
infeasible; KNH need for rehabilitation.
Preparation                Aug 1989         6           17      Economist, Operations, Public  Health,                                Re-Introduction of User fees; KNH accounts payable.
Hospital Management, Civil Works
Appraisal                  Oct. 1990        7           19      Economist, Operations,  Public  Health,                               Finalization of KNH audits, KNH accounts payable,
Hospital Management                                                  need to increase KNH revenues, re-instatement of user
.__________               __________                                                                       fees.
Appraisal (WMS)            Mar. 1991        3           22      Economist, Statistician                                               Cost estimates incomplete. Need for revised medium-
term work program for CBS. Component not included
in GOK budget for coming year.
Post-Appraisal             Jan. 1991        3           7       Economist, Architect                                                  Re-instatement of user fees; MOH planning function.
Supervision                Oct. 1992        5           11      Economist, Operations, Architect, Hospital                            KNH targets not met; vacant posts in KNH; KNH
Management                                                            financial management; KNH quality control; lack of
progress in Nairobi Area component
Mar. 1993       2           11      Statistician, Operations                       2              1       Procurement and disbursement problems
Aug. 1993       6            18     Public  Health,  Operations,  Architect,       2              2        KNH financial management; KNH not decongested;
Hospital Management, Statistician                                    lack of progress on Nairobi Area component; delays in
__________________  _______  _______                                   __________                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WMS  data processing  and  outputs.
Mid-Term Review            Mar. 1994        6           18      Public  Health  Specialist,  Operations,      2              2        Delays in civil works; failure of KNH  to fulfill
Statistician, Insurance Planner                                      financial perfornance  objectives; weak  planning
function of MOH; delays in WMS surveys
Supervision                Aug. 1994        5           9       Public  Health,  Operations,  Architect,      S              U        Lack of progress on Nairobi Area component; KNH
Hospital Management                                                  failure to fulfill agreed actions and meet perfornance
targets; KNH consuming rising share of MOH budget;
vacant important posts in MOH.
Feb. 1995       3           12      Public Health, Operations                      S             U        Lack of primary and secondary health care in Nairobi
hampering means KNH  still congested.  Lack of
_________________________________   ___________  ________   ___________________________________   __________   planning    capacity   in   M OH.
Sep./Oct.       7           12      Operations, Architect, Financial, Physician,  S              S        Separate special accoun. should be re-opened for KNH;
1995                              Statistician                                                          delays in payment process, particularly for civil works-
KNH not meeting performance targets; lack of progress
in Nairobi Area component; lack of understanding of
implementation procedures in WMS component slow
implementation in this component.
41



PART1I: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                                             Table13: BankResources: Missions
ta~~proje4/~   ~IontW  Number    Dys   Specialized ataff skills           Implement   Develop-K TprbeRK~
/  ,4~~4~~'</J'~~~        rsons      fi~ed                                                       p~sau  mact:,2 
Feb./far.       6          12      Health Programnming, Operations, Architect,   S             S        KNH  not meeting performance targets; KNH civil
1996                             Financial, Procurement                                               works disbursement delays; shortfall in countefpart
Sep./Oct       8           17      Public  Health, Statistician, Operations,    U              S        Delays in civil works; delays in procurement; loss of
1996                             Procurement, Financial, Architect                                    senior CBS staffaffecting WMS component
Feb. 1997       7           17     Public Health  Operations, Accountant,        U             S        Delays in civil works; slow irnprovement in Nairobi
Physician, Economist, Civil Engineer                                arca services; KNH not decongested; completion of
activities and disbursement impossible for June 30,
1997 closing date; Mathare and Mbagathi hospital
.______________________  .________  .._________  _______.__.  rehabilitations unlikely with I year extension.
Sep. 1997       5           10     Public Health, Operations, Civil Engineer     U             S        Delays  in  civil works; financial management;
procurement   improved;    Mbagathi    hospital
rehabilitation canceled as completion unlikely
Feb. 1998       5          21      Public Health, Operations, Financial, Civil   U             S        Delays in KNH civil works; NCC civil works unlikely
Engineer                                                            to be completed; procurement improved; financial
_  .                         . _                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~management improved
Completion                 Sep. 1998       6                . 1  Operations, Statistician, Civii Engineer,
Financial. Procurement
42



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 14: Out-Patient Utilization of Nairobi Area Health Facilities
k              :L . 1991        1992         1993         1994         1995         1996         1997          .
1. Kenyatta National Hospital     N/A          N/A        594,982      558,300      396,425       387,659      427,087      946,559           +590/%
2. Mbagathi District Hospital     N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A          56,098       37,618       33,768           -40%
3. NCC Clinics
Division I
Baba Dogo Dispensary            N/A          N/A          N/A         13,133       18,750        12,319       N/A           N/A              N/A
Bahati Health Center            N/A          N/A          N/A         10,830       14,713       17,539        N/A          8,870             -18%
Dandora One                     N/A          N/A          N/A         17,061       25,042       29,917        N/A          29,042           +70%
Eastleigh Health Center         N/A          N/A          N/A         16,028       16,527       26,166        N/A          19,098           +19%
Embakasi Dispensary             N/A          N/A          N/A         9,864        12,760        12,388       N/A           N/A              N/A
Jericho Dispensary (24 hour)    N/A          N/A          N/A         47,369       51,218       76,291        N/A          59,534           +26%
Kaloleni Dispensary             N/A          N/A          N/A         8,967        13,549       15,066        N/A           N/A              N/A
Kasarani Dispensary             N/A          N/A          N/A         8,628        14,991        11,536       N/A           N/A              N/A
Kariobangi Health Center        N/A          N/A          N/A         18,567       24,439       29,692        N/A           N/A              N/A
Lunga Lunga Health Center       N/A          N/A          N/A         13,103       14,495        13,175       N/A          12,252            -6%
Makadara Disp./Maternity        N/A          N/A          N/A         8,642        25,424        10,551       N/A           N/A              N/A
Mathare North Health Center     N/A          N/A          N/A         13,419       22,350       26,600        N/A          28,898           +115%
Pumwani Dispensary              N/A          N/A          N/A         14,732       18,248       21,939        N/A           N/A              N/A
Ruai Dispensary                 N/A          N/A          N/A         6,750        8,758         13,286       N/A           N/A              N/A
Umoja Dispensary                N/A          N/A          N/A         14,037       16,454        19,107       N/A           N/A              N/A
Division II                     N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A           N/A          N/A          N/A              N/A
Kahawa Health Center            N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         26,417       32,441       32,711        20,466           -23%
Kangemi Health Center           N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         36,697       43,026        N/A           N/A              N/A
Karen Health Center             N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         27,715       33,567       26,088        16,491            40%
Langata Health Center           N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         27,205       31,978       31,628        44,264           +63%
Ngara Health Center             N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         26,551       20,633        closed Nov. 1996 - present for rehabilitation
Riruta Health Center              N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         42,672        51,598      46,320        41,483            -2%
Source: KNH, PMO-Nairobi, NCC, years are fiscal years
Notes:  1. Complete data on all 46 NCC clinics was not available, and available data was incomplete for some years. 2. For those not in existence at start of project or for
which data not available, % change is from their first year or first year for which data available. 3. 1994 figures for NCC clinics are approximations based on reporting for
January-August, 1994. 4. 1998 figures for all facilities are approximations based on reporting for January-August, 1998.
43



PARTI!: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                     Table 15: Kenvatta National Hospital PerfonnanceTarfet
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 15: Kenyatta National Hospital Performance Targets
Productivity Targets    ____
Avg inpatient stay (days)
Target:                     8.6         8.5          8.3         8.0          7.7         7.4          7.1         8.4          8.2         8.0
Actual:                                 9.8          9.8         9.3          8.7          9.2         8.6         8.6          8.6          -
Staff/ 1000 patient days:
Target:                     5.4         5.4          5.3         5.0          4.8         4.6          4.4         7.0          7.0         7.0
Actual:                I      _5.3                   5.6         5.56         5.54        6.17         5.75        7.8          7.8          -
Financial Targets
Oper. costs/inpatient day
(constant 1990/91 Kshs)
Target:                    578          602          600         600          600         580          555         800         800          800
Actual:                     513         394         457          352          523         614          946         783         757           -
Net  income  (current
Kshs. million)
Target:                    (0.9)        0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          4.0          0           0            0
Actual:                   (37.6)        24.0       (75.9)        2.2         68.8         301.6       371.7        395.2         -           -
FeeslRec. Expend. (%)*
Target:                     1.8         3.6          15.0        15.0         17.2        21.7         22.8         20         22.5         25
Actual:                     7.7         7.9          4.3          8.5         13.2        14.7         16.4        17.5        16.8          -
KNH Grant/rec. exp. (%)
Target:                    94.9         82.5        82.3         76.0        72.7         72.0         71.4         80         77.5         75
Actual:                    78.8         87.6        76.2         88.0        66.0         105          91.8        113          106          -
KNH Grant as % of
MOH Budget
Target:                    13.7         12.5        13.2         12.9         12.6        12.2         11.9        15.0        13.0         12.0
Actual:                    10.2         9.8         12.8         13.4         16.7        16.0         16.4        15.1        16.9          -
Facility Targets
Maint. as % of Rec. exp.           1            l                                                                          l 1
Target:                     2.2         3.8          5.0         6.0          6.0         6.0          6.0         4.5          5.0         6.0
Actual:                     2.4         1.6    |    1.9           1.5         2.2          3.8         3.9         4.0    |    4.0    |  4.36**
Notes: Operating Costs = Total recurrent expenditure less depreciation. Target for 1996/97 and after defined solely by KNH due to failure to agree with IDA on revised
targets. Net income is inaccurately calculated as funds remaining in accounts at end of year, due to irregularity of payments from MOH, net income actually approximates
zero.
*(Fees include user charges & NHIF reimbursement). *budgeted
44



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 16a: Ministry of Health Budget: Total Public Health Expenditure
R~,  mUA1990/91 i-: 1991192           t992/93-   193194         1994195`    1995196       19,96/97 1     i97I,
Ar"          Actual                                                          'Ad 9   f--- 9915- 
__________________    Actual    Actual      ~~Acta        Actul         ctal        Acta           cul       Bde~
Total Expenditure (KSH millions)
Recuffent                   2,576.1      2,956.7      3,410.5      4,465.0      5,724.3      7,222.3      7,727.1      9,648.4
Development                  752.3        730.4       1,086.0      1,951.9      1,108.0      1,675.0      2,616.4      6,008.7
Total                       3,328.4      3,687.0      4,496.5      6,416.9      6,832.3      8,897.2      10,343.5     15,657.1
Total Expenditure
(1986 constant prices)
Recurrent                   1,580.5      1,516.2      1,375.2      1,230.0      1,223.1      1,523.7      1,494.6      1,678.0
Development                  461.5        374.5        437.9        537.7        236.7        353.4        506.1       1,045.0
Total                       2,042.0      1,890.8      1,813.1      1,767.7      1,459.9      1,877.1      2,000.7      2,723.0
Total Expenditure (percentages)
Recurretit                   77%          80%          76%          70%          84%          81%          75%          62%
Development                  23%          20%          24%          30%          16%           19%         25%           38%
Total                        100%         100%         100%         100%         100%         100%         100%         100%
Real Growth Rate                                                                                       _     _
Recurrent                     n/a         -4%          -9%          -11%         -1%          25%          -2%           12%
Development                   n/a        -19%          17%          23%          -56%         49%          43%          106%
Total                         n/a         -7%          -4%          -3%          -17%         29% °         7%           36%
*Provisional
Source: Governnent of Kenya
45



PART Ik StatisticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 16b: Ministry of Health Budget: Functional Composition of Recurrent Health Budget
(percentages)
~~/~9'~~"~~ 4/A ~~  "'                   1994195.0    199519       199619      1999
National Level                                                 _                          _  _
Central Administration & Planning (HQ)                   4.6          3.6         4.4          3.2
Central Medical Store                                    0.6          0.5         0.5          0.6
Kenyatta National Hospital                               17.0        17.3         15.6         14.6
Specialized Hospitals                                    2.2          1.9         1.9          2.3
National Health Insurance Fund                           0.9          0.2         0.1          3.4
Health Training Colleges (KMTC) - Central**              1.3          1.3          1.3         1.2
Engineering & Production Units                           0.3          0.3         0.3          0.1
Grants to NGOs                                           0.2          0.3         0.1          0.0
Sub-total                                               27.1         25.3         24.1        25.5
Provincial Level
Provincial Administration & Planning                     1.4          1.3          1.4         0.6
Provincial Hospitals                                     13.4        13.2         14.1         15.6
Health Training Colleges (KMTC) - Province**             1.4          1.3          1.4         1.3
Port Health Control                                      0.4          0.4         0.4          0.4
Sub-total                                               16.6         16.2         17.3         18.0
District Level                         _   ___
District Hospitals                                      37.4         38.2         37.9        37.8
Rural Health Centres and Dispensaries                    9.7         10.0         10.5         12.7
District In-Service Training Services                    0.1          0.0         0.0          0.0
Rural Health Training and Demon. Centers                 1.2          1.1         1.0          1.3
Health Training Colleges (KMTC) - District**             2.0          1.9         2.0          1.9
Sub-total                                               50.3         51.1         51.4        53.8
Vertical Programs                                                                         _________=
National AIDS Control Program                            0.1          0.2         0.1          0.1
Sexually Transmitted Infections Program                   0           0            0           0.1
National Quality Laboratories                            0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
Environmental Health                                     3.6          3.8         3.7          0.1
Communicable and Vector Control Diseases                 0.6         2.0          2.0          0.7
Nutrition                                                0.1          0.1         0.0          0.1
Family Planning & MCH                                    0.6          0.5         0.5          0.3
Health Education                                         0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1
National Public Health Laboratories Services             0.9          0.8         0.7          0.7
Government Chemists                                      0.0         0.0          0.0          0.4
Sub-total                                                6.0          7.5         7.1          2.7
TOTAL                                                    100         100          100          100
Source: Govemment of Kenya
Notes: *Provisional
*5The allocation of resources KMTC between Central, Provincial and District Levels for the years 1995/96, 1996/97, 1997/98 are based
on the allocation reported in 1994/95.
46



PARTII: StatisfticalAnnexes
Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Table 16c: Ministry of Health Budget: Economic Composition of Recurrent Health Budget
Personnel
Salaries                                             42.6         36.5        35.5
Allowances (fixed)                                    15.4        19.1        18.8
Allowances (variable)                                 0.5         0.4         0.4
Gratuity and Pension Contribution                     0.8         0.1         0.1
Technical Assistance                                  0.1         0.3         0.4
Sub-total                                            59.4         56.4        55.2
Drugs & Supplies
Drugs                                                 8.3         9.8         10.0
Medical Supplies                                      0.7         0.8         0.7
Miscellaneous Supplies                                2.3         1.5         2.2
Food                                                  4.5         3.3         3.5
Sub-total                                             15.8        15.4        16.4
Utilities                                             3.0         2.9         3.8
Transport
Operating Expense                                     1.8         1.6         1.8
Travelling & Accomodation                             0.9         0.5         0.7
Hire of Transport, Machinery, and Plant               0.0         0.0         0.0
Sub-total                                             2.7         2.1         2.5
Maintenance & Replacement   _
Equipment                                             0.6         0.5         0.7
Vehicles                                              0.0         0.0         0.1
Buildings                                             0.2         0.2         0.2
Sub-total                                             0.8         0.7         1.0
Grant & Other Expenditure
Grants                                                18.2       22.3         21.0
Other Expenditures                                    0.1         0.1         0.1
Sub-total                                             18.3        22.4        21.1
TOTAL                                                 100         100         100
Source: Govenunent of Kenya
47



Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
September 23-30, 1998
1.    A World Bank mission visited Kenya from September 23-30 for the purpose of preparing the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kenya Health Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2310-KE),
which closed on June 30, 1998, after a one-year extension. The mission comprised Andrew Follmer
(mission leader, AFTH1), Wacuka Ikua (AFMKE), Lucas Ojiambo (AFMKE), John Ogallo (AFMKE),
Dahir Warsamne (AFMKE), and Dick Coppinger (Civil Works Consultant). The mission was postponed
from its previously-scheduled dates in August to allow the Ministry of Health to focus on the addressing
the needs arising from the August 7 bomb crisis in Nairobi.
2.    The mission would like to express its appreciation to the representatives of the Ministry of Health,
Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi City Council, Provincial Medical Officer-Nairobi, and Central Bureau
of Statistics who worked with the Bank during the mission, and the months leading up to the mission, to
review the implementation of the project. Most of the discussions during the mission are reflected in the
Implementation Completion report.
Borrower Contribution
3.    The degree of preparation for this mission by the Government of Kenya and Kenyatta National
Hospital was impressive. A comprehensive draft Borrower Evaluation report had been prepared prior to
the rmission's arrival, and this report provided a solid basis for discussion.  The final Borrower
Evaluation Report, of which a 10 page Executive Summary will be attached to the ICR, will be
submitted to the Bank by October 9, 1998. The Borrower will also submit to IDA formal comments on
the draft ICR, which will be sent by IDA following the mission.
Procurement
4.    A procurement review is being conducted of the project by IDA. As of one month subsequent to
the end of this mission, the Government of Kenya had not yet made available all the materials
necessary to complete this review as requested by IDA. Given that the GoK's timely cooperation
with such reviews is a legal requirement under the Development Credit Agreement, IDA expects that
the requested documents will be made available by GOK immediately. All goods and equipment
procured under this project have been delivered, and distribution of these goods continues at an impressive
rate. At the time of the mission, 4 to 5 trucks per day were departing Nairobi to deliver these items to
health facilities throughout the country. These goods and equipment are expected to have a significant
impact on the capacity of these facilities to provide quality health care.
Disbursements
5.    The project is currently under its disbursements grace period, which ends October 30, 1998.
Since project closing, the majority of the remaining balance of this credit has been disbursed. Currently,
approximately 14% of the credit is undisbursed, though most of this is expected to be disbursed prior to the
closing of the books. The GOK had the goal of submitting all pending withdrawal requests to IDA by
September 30, 1998; however, as of October 26, few had been received. In addition, a thorough
Statement of Expenditures (SOE) review is underway. Unfortunately, this review has not been
completed as of one month after the mission because the GOK has not made available all the
documents necessary for the review as requested by IDA. Given that the GOK's timely cooperation
48



A yaendix A                                              Completion Mission 's Aide Memoire
with such reviews is legally required under the DCA, IDA expects that the requested documents will
be made available by GOK immediately.
Outstanding Audits
6.    The SOE audit for KNH is currently outstanding, and disbursements against SOEs for this
category are consequently under suspension. The MOH has verbally informed IDA that all SOEs covered
in the MOH Audit of SOEs are, in fact, KNH SOEs, as the MOH did not utilize SOEs under this credit.
IDA has requested a letter confirming this information, which was received. However, queries
remain to be addressed before the suspension can be lifted. These were communicated to the
Government in a letter from the Country Director. Furthermore, it was agreed that the Ministry of
Health shall seek to address all audit qualifications from the most recent audits by the close of
disbursements on November 30, 1998.
Development Objectives
7.    The mission notes that the one-year extension of the pioject granted by IDA resulted in
significantly greater fulfillment of the development objectives than would have been the case had the project
closed as originally planned on June 30, 1997. A thorough discussion of the Achievement of Objectives,
and an Assessment of Outcome, is included in the draft ICR.
Unfinished Civil Works Under the Nairobi Area Health Services Component
8.    The mission is disappointed to note that the civil works at the 14 Nairobi City Council clinics,
which were expected to be completed by June, 1997, at the time of contract award, were incomplete
at the time of project closing and remain incomplete. Work continues on these clinics, financed by GoK,
and it is uncertain when they will be complete, though NCC estimates that all clinics will be completed and
fully operational by January 1, 1999. Three of the clinics are closed, and several more are only partially
operational. IDA will only finance the percentage of the work deemed to have been completed prior to
June 30, 1998. Furthermore, the ICR will recommend that completion of these clinics to the satisfaction of
IDA be a condition of appraisal for any future IDA credit to the health sector in Kenya. The mission also
concluded that current provisions for the sustainability of IDA's investment in these clinics is
unsatisfactory, and the MOH is encouraged to work with NCC to address this issue.
Welfare Monitoring System: Sustainability
9.    The mission has expressed serious concern about the sustainability of IDA's investment in the
Welfare Monitoring System component. There is a serious need to strengthen the institution and systems of
the Central Bureau of Statistics which is threatening that institution's ability to provide the invaluable
statistical outputs on which decision-makers throughout the Government depend. The level of current GoK
funding is inadequate to address these needs, and additional donor support is not anticipated. A Task Force
has been named to examine these issues and follow up on the recommendations of the February, 1998, IMF
Mission; the report of this Task Force is expected to be completed by April, 1999.
49



ApgpndixA                                                Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
Agreed Actions and Schedule for Completion of ICR
Agreed Action                                                    Date Due
1. MOH to subnmt to IDA disbursement estimates/schedule by category    Immediately
(fulfilled)
2. Borrower to submit final Borrower Evaluation Report (hardcopy and  October 9, 1998
diskette)                                                        (outstanding    on
October 26, 1998)
3. IDA to provide draft ICR to Borrower for commnent (as of Oct. 26, October 23, 1998
unable to be fulfilled due to GOK's delay in providing documents
requested for SOE and procurement reviews)
4. End of Disbursements Grace Period                             October 31, 1998
5. Borrower to Address all Audit Qualifications                  November 30, 1998
6. Borrower to provide IDA with comments on draft ICR            November 6, 1998
7. Dissemination of Final ICR                                    December 31, 1998
50



Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Appendix B: Civil Works Report (September, 1998)
PART 1: KENYATTA NATIONAL HOSPITAL
PART Il: NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL CLINICS
PART I: KENYATTA NATIONAL HOSPITAL
Completion Status.   The project is fully complete. Not only is the project fully complete but the final
account, inclusive of all claims, is complete and has been agreed by the Contractor. In general the outcome
of the project can be regarded as very successful although there was a considerable overrun in the contract
period . The initial contract period was 75 weeks commencing in May 1995 and due for completion in
October 1996. The project was finally completed in March 1998 and the actual contract period was 148
weeks, a time overrun of almost 100%.
Reasons for extended contract period.
i) Hospital operations. The effect of maintaining the hospital in a fully operational state during the
implementation of the work was underestimated in the original contract programme. The result of the
situation was that work on almost all sections of the hospital had to be done in stages. Time was lost by
the client in vacating areas and making them available to the contractor and similarly time was lost in
taking over and transporting operations to a completed area. The Client was therefore unable to hand over
areas to the Contractor as planned and the time lag in transporting operations to a completed areas was also
considerable.
ii) Increased dilapidations. The original surveys for the scope of the rehabilitation works were done in
1990 and the actual rehabilitation was done in some areas up to 6 or 7 years later. Over this time the
condition of some of the facilities in the hospital, particularly with regard to mechanical and electrical
services, had deteriorated rapidly. The implications of this situation were that complete dilapidation
surveys had to be redone as soon as new areas were handed over to the contractor. These often resulted in
an increase in the scope of work and causes for further delay (approval of extra costs, importation of
specialised items etc).
iii) Nature of the work. Rehabilitation work by its very nature is more difficult to plan than new work and
the Client was often faced with difficult decisions as to where to draw the line with the rehabilitation work.
The complexity of hospital construction and the inter dependency of services and builders V ork was often
the cause of delays. In any situation rehabilitation work involves the taking of detailed inventories by the
Hospital, the PIT and the contractor before work can conmnence. This can be time consuming and cause
delays.
iv) Late instructions. In the case of increased dilapidation's and an increase in the scope of work
instructions to the contractor are inclined to be delayed. The extra work involves negotiation by the PIT,
with both the Client and the Contractor, and agreement and approval of extra costs before instructions can
be issued and work can commence.
v) Project management services.    The project management structure was cumbersome and involved
too many parties: KNH Management and Users, MOPW  Project Managers, sub divisions of MOPW
(structural, mechanical, electrical quantity surveying etc) and the sub consultants/structural, mechanical).
51



Agwendix B                                                              Civil Works Report
Design and quality of construction. The work in this project comprised the rehabilitation of the existing
hospital and therefore the extent of the new design work was limited. The scope of the work undertaken
was found to be appropriate as was the design of the new works (e.g. the new mortuary). The quality of
workmanship was found to be acceptable to good. Some isolated areas of poor workmanship were
observed mainly in the finishing of the toilets in the wards of the tower block. The general standard of
workmanship can be regarded as good and the users declared their satisfaction with the end product.
Changes to the original scope of work. There have been considerable changes to the original scope of
work and these have been detailed separately in an attached "Statement of Final Account". Most of these
changes have been necessitated either by (i) increased dilapidations: these have been caused either by
further deterioration between the time of the original survey and the time of executing the work or
inadequate initial dilapidation surveys; or (ii) modified Users requirements: the personnel involved in the
rehabilitation at the time of the projects inception and its actual execution changed and their requirements
and policies were often different. In general terms the changes made to the original project scope of work
are considered appropriate and justified. In financial termns the effect of the changes in the original scope of
work have resulted in an increase in the value of work done from Kshs 401 M to Kshs 520 M. This
represents an increase of 30%.
Financial aspects of the Project.
i) Final account. The final account for the project has been thoroughly scrutinised and found to be in
order. The final account is summarised in the following table.
ORIGINAL                          %
ITEM         CONTRACT         FINAL A/C   INCREASE              REMARKS
Prelims               19,275,000     19,275,000        -
Builders Work        235,171,970    289,824,906     +23%       Increas.; of 23% due mainly
to  increased  dilapidations
and increase in scope of
work requested by KNH.
Mechanical           117,727,286    156,256,318     +33%       33% increase due to increased
Installation                                                   dilapidations,   indadequate
initial site  surveys  (steam
system) and additional Client
rcquirements     regarding
Circulating  Water Steriliser
and O.xygen back up system.
Electrical Installation    28,667,288  46,097,095    +60%      Increase  of 60%   due  to
increased dilapidations and
additional  scope  of  work
requested by KNH.
Loss/ Expense Claim            _    61,901,335              _  15% of original contract.
Interest on Delayed
Payments                             4,192,369                 1% of original contract
Totals               400,841,545   586,547,024      +46%
ii) Loss lExpense Claim.
The contract period was extended by a period of 74 weeks. A detailed exercise was performed by the PIT
to apportion the blame for the delay between the Employers and the Contractor. The details are contained
52



dp,eendix B                                                               Civil Works Report
in the Progress Review Report as at 3 1st March 1998 attached to this report. The outcome of the report
apportioned 63% of the blame on the Employer and 37% on the Contractor. This claim was settled as
indicated in the following table.
ITEM                      AMOUNT (Shs)                          REMARKS
Loss on Prolongation period              35,912,000            25% Prelims, 52% Supervision,
23% Plants Equip.
Fluctuations on Material + Labour                              Only paid for extended contract period.
.______________________________           18,396,000
Loss on Advance Payment Security
3,609,000            Delayed release by Employer
Additional Security                       2,630,000
Overtime                                  1,352,000
Extended   Prelims   for  sub              648,000
contractor
Total                        61,901,000
iii) Interest on delayed payments. The project has suffered from a history of delayed payments. Apart
from the cash flow problems and delays that the delayed payments have caused the contractor the direct
cost to the project has been significant amounting to 4.2 M Shs. The delays in payments beyond the 56
days stipulated in the Contract are detailed below.
Dela in Local Currenc Pa ment           Dela in Forei n Currenc  Pa ment
World Bank             G.O.            World Bank              G.O.K
Advance Payment     __                        3_10 days __572 days
Certificate 1             60 days             217 "               61 days             481
Certificate 2              19 "                 76 "               26 "               249 "
Certificate 3             140"                135 "                29 "               208 "
Certificate 4              10 "                 95_ _   "                             168 "
Certificate 5              70"                  91"                63 "               164 "
Certificate 6              16 "                 44"                16 "               117
Certificate 7              56 "                193 "               33 "               251
Certificate 8              57 "                 39"                 8 "                39
Certificate 9              40 "                 16                 42 "               147
Certificate 10             49"                  92"                77 "                98
Certificate 11             24"                  67"                37 "               100
Certificate 12             44"                  17"                39 "                17
Certificate 13             84"                  73"                73 "                72
Certificate 14             82"                  95"                66"                 93
Certificate 15             87"                 114 "              100 i               106
Certificate 16             56"                  92"                57 "                61
Certificate 17             93"                 115"                93 "                84
Project and Construction Management.        The Project Management structure has been extremely
cumbersome and has been such that it has been difficult for the PIT (Project Implementation Team) to
function efficiently. The original lead Consultants for the project were terninated due to non performance
and the MOPWH (Ministry of Public Works and Housing) were appointed. This meant that there were far
too many parties involved: KNH Management, MOPWH Project Manager (who was answerable to his
53



Apendir B                                                               Civil Works Report
superiors) the sub divisions of the MOPWH (structural , mechanical, electrical, quantity surveying) and all
the sub consultants for the various disciplines (structural mechanical etc).
The PIT was faced with several changes in key personnel over the duration of the Project and many
changes in the Hospitals requirements. There were also increased dilapidations over the period, With so
many personnel involved the decision making process was slow and a more autonomous arrangement for
the Project Management would have been more effective.
Despite this arrangement it is a credit to the personnel involved particularly in the last 18 months of the
project, that it was completed successfully.
Sustainability. With regard to sustainability in terms of maintenance of buildings and equipment it is
considered that the in-house capacity of KNH is weak, both in terms of human and physical resources.
PART II: NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL REHABILITATION OF CLINICS.
Completion Status.   The degree of completion on this project is very disappointing. The 14 clinics in
the Nairobi City Council have been divided into 3 zones for the purposes of this project. The scope of
work and completion status at 30/6/98 and 30/9/98 which are the dates at which the Credit closed and the
date of the final inspection respectively are shown in detail on the attached chart. The status can be
summarised as follows:
i) Western Zone. The work in this zone is substantially complete. There are however serious defects at 2
out of the 4 clinics. At 1 of the clinics the foul sewerage system is not operational and at the second there
are serious roof leaks. These defects are seriously affecting the operation of the clinics and need to be
attended to by Nairobi City Council as a matter of urgency.
ii) Central Zone. The work in this zone is only approximately 80% complete and due to non payment to
the Contractors all work was basically at a standstill at the time of the field inspection. The consequences
of this situation are that out of the 5 clinics in this zone affected by the rehabilitation project sections in 3
of the clinics are not yet in usable condition. The most critical items regarding completion are the sewerage
systems at 1 of the clinics, installation of water tanks at 3 clinics and the completion of   the flooring at 2
clinics.
iii) Eastern Zone. The work in this zone is also only approx 80% complete due to non payment to the
Contractor. Of the 5 clinics involved 2 clinics are not in a usable condition due to the incomplete works.
The most ciitical items of incomplete work are roof leaks in two of the clinics, incomplete flooring in 2
clinics, and installation of water tanks at 3 clinics.
Design work related to the rehabilitation. The bulk of the work in this project involves the rehabilitation
of existing facilities and therefore the design was basically determined by the form of the existing facilities.
The design of the existing clinics is generally considered to be appropriate for the areas and the populations
they are serving.
Changes to the original scope of work. There have been several revisions to the original scope of work
during the execution of the contracts for the following reasons:
i) inadequate original site investigations and surveys.
ii) Undermeasurement of critical items of work in the original Bill of Quantities.
54



Am endix B                                                            Civil Works Report
iii) Overemphasis at planning stage on upgrading the external works which was   unnecessary.
iv) Pressing need to prevent encroachment on, and possibly security to, the facilities
particularly in areas of high population density.
v) Due to the poor performance of the NCC and the Contractors in the early stages of  the
contract and the expiry of the credit the NCC opted to reduce the scope of work    in the eastern
and central zones. The criteria was to endeavor to ensure that all  critical items were
completed prior to the termination of the project credit.
Quality of work. The quality of workmanship and materials on the project was not particularly good. The
main reasons for this being the appointment of contractors of a lower grade and also poor supervision on
the part of the NCC. The main areas of concern are the quality of timber and the effectiveness of treatment
of the timber structure used in the new pitched roofs. The standard of masonry work is generally
acceptable but the finish in some units is poor. Other example of poor workmanship and materials include
internal finishing details such as ironmnongery on doors and woodwork to cabinets and cupboards which
was poor in some units. The concrete quality on a few of the water tower structures was poor and there
was no evidence of quality control and testing being done by the NCC supervision.
Implementation and project management.
i) Design stage. Inadequate site investigations and surveys at design stage have resulted in many variations
to the scope of work becoming necessary during the course of the work. The detailing and documentation
provided for tendering was not of a high standard and there are many instances where the work items have
been undermeasured in the contract Bills of Quantities.
ii) Supervision. The standard of supervision of the work has been poor . The lack of transport resources
within NCC has meant that regular visits to site by NCC architects, inspector and quantity surveyors has
been irregular and the work has been executed by the Contractors largely unsupervised.
iii) Contract administration.   This has been poor. The initial contract formalities took an inordinate
anount of time. The records of site measurements, site meetings and contract correspondence are not
comprehensive.
iv) Payment procedures.     There have been severe delays in payments to the contractors which have
had a very negative effect on the project. The payment delays are detailed separately. They have resulted
in severe cash flow problems with the contractors, forcing them to slow down the progress. It has also
created an atmosphere of distrust amongst the contractors and with the slow down in progress enthusiasm
from all parties involved in the project has waned. Procedures both within the NCC and MoH are very
bureaucratic and initiatives introduced during previous supervision missions have failed to reduce the
delays. Apart from the cost to the project in terms of completion delays the cost to NCC in terms of
interest payable for late paymnents under the contracts is likely to be significant.
A separate chart has been attached to this report indicating the extent of the payment delays on the project.
Sustainability. With regard to sustainability the NCC claim that they are fully geared up as regards staff,
furniture, medical equipment and consumables to run the clinics effectively. Of the clinics that are already
operating there was evidence of shortage of medical supplies and furniture. The general lack of resources
and efficiency within NCC does not auger very well for the smooth running and sustainability of the
rehabilitated clinics. Factors that show these indications are the fact that of all the lab/ dental units already
completed in the Westem zone none are furnished and operational and the existing clinic at Kayole which
was completed almost 10 years ago has not yet been opened.
55



Appendix B                                                                                                                                    Civil Worlu Report
Kenya Health Rehabilitation Project: Appendix B (continued)
Nairobi City Council - Rehabilitation of Health Facilities: Scope of Work and Progress
Zone 1 (Western)   Fahari Buildinc + Civil Engineering Contractor
Clinic     Original        Revised           Scope of work            Estimated            Completion                      Remarks
Value          Value                                    Completion               Status
Kshs           Kshs                                    Status 30/6/98            1/9/98
= 18,54,275     19,991,000    _                        __                          __
Kangemi     4,871,111        5,176,000     New boundary wall               1000/%                100%           New laboratory complete but not in use.
New laboratory                 100%/e                100%           Resurfacing of roads omitted from the
Status:                                    Re roofing                      100%                  100%           work.
OPEN                                       Internal rehab.                 100%                  100%           Boundary wall added to scope of work.
Boundary wall + Gate           100%                  100%           Building  works  undermeasured  in
Resurface roads                 Nil                   Nil           original BoQ.
Riruta       3,514,910       3,860,000     New Lab/ Dental unit            100%                  100%           New laboratory complete but not in use.
Re roofing.                    100%                  100%           Surfacing of car park omitted from the
Status:                                    Internal rehabilitation.        100%                  100%           work.
OPEN                                       Levelling of Car park.          100%                  100%           Building  works  undermeasured  in
. __ .original BoQ.
Karen        3,650,885       4,545,000     New laboratory.                 100%                  100%           New laboratory complete but not in use.
New toilet block.              100%                  100%           Surfacing of road works omitted.
Status:                                    New gate + fence.               100%                  100%           Foundation problems at laboratory and
OPEN                                       Internal rehabilitation.        100%                  100%           toilet blocks resulted in increased cost.
Re  roofing  of waiting        100%                  100%
area.
Lang'ata     5,393,501       6,326,000     New Lab /dental unit.           100%                  100%           New laboratory complete but not in use.
Re roofing.                    100%                  100%           Resurfacing of road omitted from the
Status:                                    Internal rehabilitation.        100%                  100%           work.
OPEN                                       Resurfacing of road.             Nil                   Nil           Size of the laboratory increased.
Foundation problem  at new  lab and
dental unit resulted in increased cost.
56



Appendix B                                                                                                                                Civil Works Report
Kenya Health Rehabilitation Project: Appendix B (continued)
Nairobi City Council - Rehabilitation of Health Facilities: Scope of Work and Progress
Zone 2 (Central)   Reef Building Systems
Clinic     Original   Revised Value         Scope of work             Estimated            Completion                  Remarks
Value          Kshs                                      Completion              Status
Kshs                                                   Status 30/6/98            1/9/98
18,429,081     17,602,000
Ngara       7,253,955       8,062,00    New Lab/ Dental unit               0%                  Omitted.       Laboratory omitted from the work.
Re roofing.                       90%                  100%          Water Tower and Tank added.
Status:                                  Internal Rehab.                   60%                   80%           Resurfacing of car park omitted.
CLOSED                                   Water Tower + Tank.             80% +0%               90% +0%         Boundary wall added i.o fence.
Resurface carpark/ Access.        0%                  Omitted.       Roofing undenneasured in BoQ.
Boundary wall.                    0%                    5%           Burglar proofing undermeasured in
Electrical.                       90%                   95%          BoQ.
Internal finishing undermeasured in
BoQ.
NCC estimates fully operational:
__________  ____________________ ___________________                    O ct.  31,  1998
Eastleigh   4,788,041      4,409,000     New lab and waiting area.          0%                 Omitted.        Laboratory omitted.
Centre                                   Re roofing.                       90%                   100%          Water Tower + Tank added.
Water tower + tank.              80 + 0%               90 + 0%       Resurfacing of car park omitted.
Status:                                 Int. Rehab  of maternity           65%                   75%           Fence, gate and drainage omitted.
Partially                                clinic.                            0%                 Omitted         Roofing  and  burglar  proofing
OPEN                                     Resurfacing car park.              0%                   0%            undermeasured in BoQ.
Fence and gate.                   0%                    0%            NCC estimates fully operational:
Drainage Rehab.                                                      Nov. 30, 1998
Bahati      4,026,345      4,093,000     New laboratory.                    0%                  Omitted.       New laboratory omitted.
Health                                   Re roofing                        90%                   100%          Water Tower and Tank added.
Centre                                   Water Tower + Tank.              40 +0%                50 + 0%        Car park/ access road omitted.
Internal rehab.                   60%                   80%           Roofing undermeasured in BoQ.
Status:                                  Car park/ access road.             0%                 Omitted.        Rehabilitation of sewerage added.
Partially                                Fencing.                           0%                   0%            NCC estimates fully operational:
OPEN                                     Rehab of sewer.                   20%                   40%           Nov. 15, 1998
Ngaira        451,408       538,000      New dental unit.                   0%                 Omitted.        New dental unit omitted.
Reroofing of TB Clinic.           0%                    0%            Reroofing of TB clinic added.
Status:
OPEN
Jericho     1,434,305        47,406      New dental unit + lab.           Omitted.              Omitted.       Laboratory abandoned at foundation
stage.
Status:
OPEN       ______ ___  __                                          _
57



Appendix B                                                                                                                          Civil Works Report
Kenya Health Rehabilitation Project: Appendix B (continued)
Nairobi City Council - Rehabilitation of Health Facilities: Scope of Work and Progress
Zone 3 (Eastrn)   G.G. Gachara Construction
Clinic     Original      Revised            Scope of work              Estimated         Completion                    Remarks
Value        Value                                        Completion           Status
Kshs         Kshs                                       Status 30/6/98         1/9/98
18,366,03s    15663 ooo
Kayole      1,702,296      495,000     Laboratory.                         100%               100%         Room in existing clinic modified into a lab.
Car park paving + Drainage.          0%              Omitted.      Clinic was completed 10 years ago under
Status:                                                                                                    World Bank-financed Urban II Project,
CLOSED                                                                                                     but was never opened. NCC estimates
fully operational: Jan. 1, 1999
Industrial   3,222,671    2,337,000    New lab and dental unit.             55%               65%          External works reduced.
Area.                                  Internal Rehab.                      15%                20%         Burglar bars undermeasured in BoQ.
Boundary   wall  ,  Paving          65%                75%         NCC estimates fully operational:  Nov.
Status:                                Drainage.                                                          30, 1998
Partially
OPEN
Mathare    5,259,926      3,341,000    New laboratory and dental unit.      65%                70%         Water Tower + Tank added.
North                                  Roof repairs.                        60%                80%         Boundary wall added.
Internal rehab.                     50%                70%         Car park and drainage omitted.
Status:                                Water Tower + Tank.                 60+0%             8(}+0%        NCC estimates fully operational:  Nov.
Partially                              Car park and drainage.               0%               Omitted.      30, 1998
OPEN                                   Boundary wall.                       0%                 10%
Dandora    3,985,117      3,058,000    Re roofing.                          90%               100%         Water Tower and Tank added.
Internal Rehab.                     70%                90%         Resurfacing of car park + entrance omitted.
Status:                                Water Tower + Tank.                80 + 0%           100 + 0%       Burglar bars undermeasured in BoQ.
Partially                              Resurfacing   and   renewing         0%               Omitted.      NCC estimates fully operational:  Oct.
OPEN                                   paving.                                                             31, 1998
Kahawa      5,421,090     4,952,000    Re roofing.                          90%               100%         Rehabilitation of sewer omitted from BoQ
Internal rehabilitation.            60%                70%         Boundary wall added.
Status:                                Water Tank + Tower.                60 + 0%            80 + 0%       Resurfacing of road omitted.
Partially                              New fence and gate.                  0%                 10%         Burglar bars omitted in original BoQ.
OPEN                                   Resurfacing.                         0%               Omitted.      NCC estimates fully operational: Nov.
30, 1998
58



Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Appendix C: Executive Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report
I. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Kenya Health Rehabilitation Project had the following objectives:
A.    To support the Government's Programme of Health Sector Reform, which began with the Health
Care Financing Programme (Cost- sharing/ Programme) by: -
1. Supporting the rehabilitation upgrading and institutional development ofKenyatta National
Hospital (KNH) in order to reduce its burden on the overall Ministry of Health budget and permit
an increase in expenditure on preventive, promotive and Primary Health Care;
2. Improving the delivery of Health Services in the Nairobi area outside KNH in order to
decongest the latter; and
3. Preparation for future policy, managerial and investment reforms in health.
B.    To support the development of a National Household welfare monitoring and Evaluation System
that is being coordinated by the Ministry of Planning and National Development through the
Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS).
II. COMPONENTS
A. KENYATTA NATIONAL HOSPITAL COMPONENT
Project Objectives.
Before the onset of the project, the service volume was increasing rapidly but quality was declining with
shortages of drugs and supplies, long delays in diagnosis and deteriorating physical conditions. The
project aimed at strengthening clinical services and establish revenue generating private services by
reinforcing cost sharing thus supporting increased mobilization of resources for health from sources other
than general revenues. It also aimed at securing financial sustainability and reducingKNH's burden on
MoH recurrent budget from 14% downwards to allow for allocation ofMoH resources to preventive and
primary services.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Despite significant improvements by KNH in many of the performance targets, it has not been able to
meet the targets set by IDA. Two main reasons are attributed to this: (i) Thefulfilment of many of the
targets was dependent on fulfilment of other wider conditions many of which were outside the preview of
KNH. To date, they have not been fulfilled; and (ii) Many of the targets were also unrealistic given the
difficulties KNH was experiencing at the time in respect to finances and management capacity. KNH has
however made improvements in all the indicators, although at a rate lower than set targets.
1.    Rehabilitation of Buildings and structures
The works are completed, with the following results: (i) Cleanliness and improved infection control
systems; (ii) Working environment improved i.e. emergency services area (casualty), theatres, wards and
clinics; (iii) Expansion of work space i.e. treatment rooms, casualty examination rooms and consulting!
doctors rooms; (iv) Cost of maintenance in clinical areas has been reduced greatly; (v) Creation of private
practise within the hospital i.e. consultancy practice and a private wing; (vi) Increase revenue i.e. new
mortuary; (vii) Prior to the project, people used to shun the hospital and for those who sought services in
the hospital, they could not get adequate drugs. Prior to the project, the services were sluggish due to the
59



Appendix C                                     Executive Summary of Borrower's Evaluation Report
constraints occasioned by the existing layout. Due the face-lift, better services resulted to fewer
complaints from the general public, the staff morale improved due to better working environment
especially in the theatres, casualty and hospital waste disposal.
2.     Training of Managers and Technicians.
The aim of this component was capacity building. To date, 135 people/hospital staff have been trained.
The types of training undertaken has gone in: (i) Improving skills and professional/technical capacities of
the hospital personnel; (ii) Increased clinical efficiency and effectiveness; (iii) Improved patient care as
indicated by the fall in ALOS; (iv) Improved financial, personnel and procurement services.
3.     Procurement of medical and non-medical Equipment
This was geared at supporting the ambulatory services, operations and patient care related services, and
has had the following positive results: (i) Improvement in efficiency on patient care i.e. lowering the
operations waiting lists, improved patient management in the wards and clinics resulting to quick recovery
periods, thereby lowering the average length of stay (ALOS); (ii) Improvement of the working systems
(patient management) hence short queues in clinics, and decline in ALOS; (iii) Performance ogpecialised
operations/cases i.e. Kidney transplants, dialysis, and open-heart operations and trauma surgery; (iv)
Reducing the cost of patient care due to improved patient management and thus reduced ALOS; (v)
Reduced expenditure on biomedical equipment maintenance; (vi) Increased revenue through user fees:
high patient tumover due to efficient booking system and short queues. In terms of equipment, more new
and state of the art equipment in the medical field were acquired resulting in improved services and patient
care. Fatalities to the hospital dropped. The offering of private practice in the hospital has increased the
sense of ownership among workers. People work by choice and not by force. This has increased
efficiency. In addition, the enlargement of the private wing andconsultancy suits has ensured availability
of doctors and expertise, whenever they are needed. There is more satisfaction resulting from effective
services.
Outcomes
(i)    Civil Works: Satisfactory:
(ii)    Equipment: Satisfactory:
(iii)   Training: Highly satisfactory.
Key factors affected achievements of the major objectives:
I.    Major shortfalls in the funds which had been budgeted e.g. the funds were not enough to cover all
areas especially buildings works which were in the originalBQs. This has various related causes:
The changes made from what was expected in BQs hence increase in dilapidation in buildings and
cost overruns. The fluctuation of the currency infavour of the dollar meant that more shillings
were spent per every dollar.
2.     Dependency on the treasury grant has not fallen as expected, as other service providers have failed
to give adequate services in the Nairobi area.
3.     Due to extemal environment and despite the fact that service delivery at KNH has improved,
congestion has continued to be a major problem, as intervention in those areas targeted to reverse
t ,e flow of patients have not been successful i.e. Nairobi City Council clinics.
4.     There was lack of performance by consultants in the initial stages (thus termination ofEdon
Consultants) which delayed the implementation of the project. This had a multiplier effect
causing delays especially in civil works, where there was poor measurement of works. This led to
increase in extra works as the contractor entered the site, i.e. increase in dilapidation. It then
implied that more time was needed to complete the project and the need for more financial
resources.
60



Appendix C                                  Executive Summary ofBorrower's Evaluation Report
5.     There was a problem in accessing the co-financing from the GOK (10%) which delayed the
processing of payments.
6.    The processing of 90% through the Special Account proved to be cumbersome. It is so involving
and long as it passes through MoH, Treasury and CBK/Bank before reaching to the payee. The
time taken always exceeded the contractual time (56 days) agreed upon thus occasioning interest
claims by the contractor.
7.    There was need for more training as concerns the international competitive bidding procedures.
There should be clear instructions on what the Bank expects on ICB, in their evaluation and
awarding. As this initially lacked, it meant that the first ICB the hospital advertised was not
successful due to lack of clarity on procedures. This then meant cancellation, waste of time to the
bidders and the hospital together with loss of value in terms of the number and price of the
equipment which eventually was ordered (price fluctuations).
8.    The Bank has not been giving adequate technical advice especially on the area o£omputerisation.
This eventually meant that the computerisation envisaged could not take place.
B. NAIROBI AREA HEALTH SERVICES COMPONENT (US $ 3.5 MILLION BASE COST)
The objective of the Nairobi Area Health services Component was to improve the delivery of Health
Services in Nairobi area outside KNH with a view to decongesting the latter so that it could serve as a true
National Referral Teaching and Research Hospital. This objective was to be achieved by introducing
interim improvements in service delivery developing a strategic health plan for Nairobi Area, and a
modest funding for its initial implementation.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Using IDA funds under the Credit a strategic health plan for the Nairobi area was developed by a
consultant working closely with the MOH, MOH_NCC and the Provincial Medical officer Nairobi.
Although there were initial delays in the implementation of the strategic plan due to inability by NCC to
demonstrate that it would be in a position to efficiently run and sustain the health facilities to be
rehabilitated/improved, this condition was eventually met and work on rehabilitation of 14 clinics
commenced and has largely been completed. Priorities for selection of facilities for rehabilitation were
identified in the strategic plan.  Development Credit funds have also been used to procure Medical
Equipment, office equipment, vehicles and other fixed equipment required by the NCC Public Health
Department to offer services to the Nairobi Population.
Capacity Building
Apart from rehabilitation of NCC facilities and purchase of equipment, Credit funds have been used to
train a significant number of NCC health workers ranging from professional, Technical and
Administrative personnel to facilitate better management of facilities rehabilitated and improved by the
project.
NAIROBI CITY COUNCIL
The strategic plan for health services in Nairobi Area was completed in 1992. The studies from the
strategic plan showed that Nairobi City Council with 46 clinics and one Maternity Hospital was capable of
providing Primary Health Care services to about 70% of the urban residents who happen to fall into the
low income group. Apart from Pumwani Matemity Hospital, Nairobi City Council has no facilities
offering secondary care. But this would be taken care of by rehabilitating Provincial Medical Office
facilities which included upgrading three facilities: (i) Mbagathi Hospital, (ii) Pumwani Hospital, and
61



Appendix C                                   Executive Summary ofBorrower's Evaluation Report
(iii) Mathare Hospital. Later, the Mutitu Committee report of June, 1996 was to recommend the
Management of all the Public facilities in Nairobi through the Nairobi Health Management Board.
The specific objectives of the NCC Component were:
1. Rehabilitation of selected Nairobi City Council clinics - Annex 1
2. Provision of improved and effective health care services with special focus on the low income groups
within the catchment areas of the clinics on the main entry roads and densely populated estates
(improved utilization).
3. Improvement of the referral system by making Nairobi City Council facilities operational and
instituting a graduated cost-sharing program.
4. Public Education on preventive and promotive health care.
5. To improve human, financial and resource management of health services within Nairobi City
Council and the Provincial Medical Office - Nairobi.
Implementation Experience
As at 30th June 1998, when the credit closed, the 13 clinics under rehabilitation were in various stages of
completion. The contracts had been divided into three zones in the implementation of the civil works
component of this project. (i) Western Zone, (ii) Central Zone, and (iii) Eastern Zone
Generally, the work in the Western Contract Zone had been completed by 30th June 1998, apart from a
few decades which were identified. As for the Central and Eastern Zone, the work is about 90% complete
on average. The two zones were particularly affected by delays in payment and performance of the
contractors. The contractor for Western Zone was able to complete the work by practically financing the
project from his own finances. It is expected that in another 4 weeks, all the outstanding works will have
been completed.
On the training that was part of the objectives, there has been varying achievements. The training had
been divided into two categories: (a) Overseas training, and (b) Local training. The overseas component
is almost 100% completed and various cadres of key managerial and professional cadres have benefited.
The local component, however, was hardly implemented. The reason was lack of capacity within Nairobi
City Council to organize and the refusal of IDA to approve a consultant to undertake the training.
Major factors affecting the Nairobi City Council Component
The design of the project focused mainly on attaining the objectives of theKenyatta National Hospital
component and did not take into account the requirement of Nairobi City Council which would lead to the
attainment of the overally objective of this project. The fact that Nairobi City Council and/or Ministry of
Local Authorities were not involved in the original design has therefore, had a negative impact on the
project. The fact that Nairobi City Council was the implementing agency but the accounting officer
belonged to another Ministry - Ministry of Health also had an effect in the overall execution of this
project. The implementing officers at the lower levels of the Ministry could not acquire the ownership of
the project, as it was seen as a 'foreign' Nairobi City Council project. This was to be reflected in the
payment delays and other aspects.
The capacity of Nairobi City Council to manage and supervise the execution of this project is adequate.
There have however, been logistical problems:
i) Lack of in-built motivation to the technical officers
ii) Inadequate transport
62



Appendix C                                   Executive Summary ofBorrower 's Evaluation Report
iii) Institutional constraints within Nairobi City Council that have resulted in poor planning and
implementation.
Sustainability of Nairobi City Council Component
In July 1998, the Nairobi City Council adopted a recommendation to retainall the user fees generated at
each facility and utilize it for the essential services. The Council had adopted in February, 1998 a
recommendation to increase user fees and broaden the criteria for charge of user fees.
Within the last 18 months, the Council has employed the following cadres:
Doctors                    -      32
Clinical Officer           -      23
Registered Nurses          -      30
Enrolled Community Nurses   -     100
Laboratory Technologists   -      5
Pharmaceutical Technologist  -    I
All these cadres, plus the procurement of equipment is expected to make amajor impact of delivering the
health services and lead to attainment of the overall objectives of the project.
Borrower's Performance
The performance of Nairobi City Council in the execution of this project may seem unsatisfactory. This is
true as a number of factors has led to this. The fact that Nairobi City Council was omitted at the design
stage, then the late implementation with only 18 months to go before the credit closure made matters
worse. Nairobi City Council was not duly addressed at the appraisal. Then there have been issues of
capacity and motivation which have negatively affected the project.
Bank's Performance
The Bank should have insisted on Nairobi City Council participation at the design stage, and later during
the appraisal. The Bank's decision to allow Nairobi City Council use its procurement procedures in
March, 1996 made a significant positive impact to the project. Another major positive decision by the
Bank was to give the one year extension which has had a tremendous impact on the project objectives.
Assessment of Outcome
a)    City Works: As of 30th September 1998, there is a very good coverage of all the planned works.
The remaining portion should be completed within the next four weeks.
b)    Training: The local component has not been successfully implemented. This leaves a gap which
remains to be addressed in future. The overseas component has been successfully implemented. The
beneficiaries, the health managers will make a significant impact on the delivery of services.
c)    Procurement of Equipment: This has been accomplished through the procurement agent - GTZ.
NAIROBI PROVINCIAL MEDICAL OFFICER'S COMPONENT
The role of the PMO Nairobi is crucial to the de-congesting of KHN in that whereas the MOH-NCC is
supposed to provide public health/Primary Health Care facilities and services, the PMO has an obligation
to provide secondary/hospital based curative services outside Kenyatta National Hospital
63



Appendix C                                  Executive Summary ofBorrower's Evaluation Report
During the time of appraisal the project sought to provide Technical Assistance to meet priority needs at
selected Nairobi City Commission and Ministry of Health facilities under the jurisdiction of the PMO. In
the strategic plan therefore and since Nairobi Province does not have a Provincial hospital, the PMO
proposed: (i) completion of the 288 bed Pumwani Provincial General Hospital (Pumwani Nyayo wards
that were initiated on Harambee basis.); (ii) Upgrading of Mbagathi Hospital into a full fledged District
Hospital for Nairobi; and (iii) conversion of an existing old Ward atMathare Psychiatric Hospital into an
Outpatient Department and Rehabilitation of the sewage system at an estimated cost of Ksh.20 Million
and Acquisition of Medical and other equipment for the rehabilitated and completed facilities. However,
except for the upgrading of Mbagathi Hospital, these activities were not undertaken under the credit due to
delays in preparing proposals acceptable to IDA. The upgrading ofMbagathi received support from the
credit in the form of medical equipment, and the planned physical rehabilitation was not undertaken for
the same reason of delays. The PMO's office Nairobi also received support in the form of vehicles,
equipment, and the training of staff.
The shortcomings that had hindered implementation were addressed by the new team that joined the
Project just before the one year's extension. Redress of these shortcoming and the appointment of Ms.
GTZ on November 1996 as a procurement Agent tumed the project implementation around as will be
illustrated under the part dealing with assessment of Outcome.
C. HEALTH PLANNING AND ANALYSIS COMPONENT (US $ 2.0 MILLION BASE COST)
The objective of this component was to strengthen capacity for Health Planning and
Analysis and preparing for future policy, management and investment reform in health, in line with the
letter on Health Policy.
The component included building of capacity of the Ministry's Division of Planning and Development
(now division of policy, Planning and Development) carrying out a series of analytical studies on the
health sector, and supporting the Ministry's Health Sector Reform initiatives, including support to the
Health Care Financing Secretariat, establishing a public investmentprogramme (PIP) for health; and
developing a phased programme for reform.
Activities Carried Out by Project Component
Since the inception of the project, a number of important activities were financed from the proceeds of the
Project under this component. These activities ranged from strengthening the capacity of the DPD through
short- and long-term training both locally and overseas; support to the Health Care Financing Secretariat
(HCFS); Support to the Ministry's Health Sector Reform secretariat; financing the Burden of Diseases
workshops both locally and overseas; financing the World Development Report (Investing in Health
Workshop in June 1993; financing a workshop of the review of the Draft KENYA HEALTH POLICY
FRAMEWORK paper and supporting sponsorship of over 20 senior managers at the Ministry's
Headquarters; Provincial and District Levels to attend strategic management and management of change
in the U. K., USA and to undertake short technical courses. This activity was undertaken to support
implementation of preparatory activities on the Health Sector Reform Project.
With the proceeds of the project, the following activities were undertaken:-
Strengthening the Division of Planning and Development
The capacity of the Division of Planning and Development was strengthened through Provision of
Technical Assistance (Mr. Ian Sliney); staff training both locally and abroad and purchase of computers
64



Appendix C                                    Executive Sunmary of Borrower's Evaluation Report
and computer software for use by the Department and posting of more senior staff to the Division
including a Chief Economist (Now Deputy Chief Economist) to Head the Division.
During the life of the project, a total of eleven (I1) officers working in the Division of Planning and
Development and the HCF Secretariat were sponsored for both short courses and long courses leading to
the award of Masters' Degrees in Planning and Public Health.
Support to the Health Sector Reform Secretariat (HSRS)
During the last eighteen months of the project life, considerable support was extended by the project to
support HSRS activities. The major activities in this area included: (i) Carrying out special studies and
pilot tests on resource needs and preparation of 'Business plans' for four (4) District Hospitals (Kiambu,
Thika, Machakos and Kajiado) in preparation for piloting of the Hospital Autonomy concept in District
Hospitals; (ii) Support to operations and maintenance of the Health Sector Reform Secretariat by
provision of 0 and M finds from the proceeds of the project; and (iii) Purchase of vehicles; office
equipment (including computers and software and furniture for the use by the HSRS.
Analytical Studies on the Health Sector
During the life of the project the following major studies were undertaken and the results are being used in
the formulation of the Ministry's long term PIP in the context of rehabilitation and consolidation of
existing health infrastructure. These are: (i) Study that led to the preparation of a strategic Health plan for
the Nairobi area to help relieve congestion at KNH; (ii) A health manpower study and a long term strategy
for education and training of Health personnel in Kenya (By M/S Development Solutions for Africa); (iii)
The pharmaceutical procurement distribution and use study (Mr. John O' Quick); (iv) The Curative Gap
Study which was coordinated by the Division of Planning and Development and; (v) A study on the
rehabilitation needs of the Ministry's buildings and major equipment.
Achievement of Project Objectives
In the context of the Project ob,jectives, this component satisfactorily achieved the objectives contained in
the Staff Appraisal Report of November 30, 1990. The findings and recommendations contained in the
analytical studies are being utilized in formulating the sector's Medium Term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) and focusing attention on the core areas of the Ministry's Medium and Long Term Public
investment Programme (PIP). The project's activities telescoped into the preparation of the Ministry's
POLICY FRAMEWORK PAPER OF NOV. 1994 and will give important and relevant information for
the preparation of the Health Sector Reform Project currently underway.
Impact of the Ministry 's Cost Sharing Programme
Since the inception of the Cost Sharing Programme in 1989, revenue collection from both user charges
and reimbursements from the NHIF have risen steadily from less thanKsh. 100 million to over Khs.391
Million in 1996/97. The estimate for 1997/98 was over Ksh.400,000. A total figure for the period will be
given when the revenue account is finalised and audited. 75% of the revenues collected is used by the
collecting institutions and 25% is used to finance Preventive and PHC activities in the districts in which
the collecting facilities are located.
Revenue raised through cost sharing supplements funds provided to the Ministry through the Exchequer.
It has greatly assisted the Ministry in sustaining operations and maintenance expenditures in the since the
inception of the programme. Measures have been put in place to streamline and strengthen internal
controls on the collection; accounting and use of Cost Sharing revenues. These measures are expected to
lead to a realisation of higher collection levels from 1998/99 Financial Year onwards.
65



Appendix C                                    Executive Sumimary of Bonrower's Evaluation Report
Assessment of Outcome: Given the component's objective, the overall outcome was satisfactory.
D. WELFARE MONITORING SYSTEM (MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND NATIONAL DEVELOFMENT)
Objectives
The overall objectives of the project were:-
(a)    Strengthening of the district Central Bureau of Statistics Office network through the provision of
technical support and training.
(b)    Strengthening the social sector department of MPND in developing its capacity to carry out
analytical work.
Specific objectives
(i)    Establish an information system that will provide timely indicators on living standards for
different population groups;
(ii)    Monitor and inform policy-makers of changes in living standards, particularly for the vulnerable
groups;
(iii)   Develop the analytical capability to relate changes in the living standards to national policies and
programmes.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Overall, the project has made positive progress in achieving its objectives, despite apparently low
disbursement levels arising from failure to submit claimable expenditures and slow process of clearing the
audits e.g. project, special account and the statement of expenditures (SOEs).
So far three volumes of reports have been prepared from survey data. These include:
(1)    Welfare Monitoring Survey II Basic Report, 1996
(2)   Incidence and Depth of Poverty in Kenya Vol. 1, 1997
(3)    Poverty and Social Indicators Vol. lI, 1998
(4)    Social Atlas for Kenya, 1998
(5)    Major highlights of Welfare Surveys have also been published in the annual Economic
Surveys; 1990, 1997, 1998.
Round three of the welfare monitoring survey covering all non-arid districts was completed on schedule
and data capture using optical scanners was completed in February, 1998. Data cleaning of both the core
and consumption module including the agriculture module is in progress under the supervision of the lead
consultants. Provisional results will be forwarded to the Task Team Leaders and the Bank on or before
10th June, 1998.
Implementation Record, Disbursements and Submission of Audits
Although all project expenditures were properly recorded, storage of records in easily retrievable format
proved difficult in some districts including the headquarters either due to lack of adequate storage
facilities or to institution of a poor monitoring system. The separation of authority of AIE holder from
ownership of accounting documents affected contributed to substantial delays in submission of audited
accounts and disbursements of funds to the project. Despite the slow process of disbursements, the
project managed to improve its performance beginning 1995 and since then the allocated funds for field
operations were fully utilized. This may however not reflect satisfactorily from creditor's viewpoint since
the expenditures were GOK and reimbursements took time to effect.
66



Appendix C                                  Executive Summary ofBorrower's Evaluation Report
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The delays experienced in implementing the planned activities as per approved annual work plans is
attributed to a number of factors:
(1)    Procurement procedures of services (e.g consultants) were found to be long and unclear.
(2)    Due to misunderstanding between the implementers and the borrower planned activities were
interrupted due to suspension of the credit particularly in 1994/95.
(3)    Some of the equipment procured for data capture (i.e. scanners) had no spares parts available
locally and the procedures for procurement of these such items within the credit agreement from
overseas suppliers were unfamiliar. This contributed to serious delays in data processing and
analysis.
(4)    Staff training on use of scanners was inadequate and this remains a major bottleneck in the
department. It has not been possible to bring the training consultant on board before termination
of the project.
(5)   The network system which was envisaged to take place during the extension period of the project
could not take off because the World Bank Review Mission in August, 1997 felt that the
probability of the department moving to the new Central Bank of Kenya building was high.
Consequently, all activities related to installation, hiring of consultant, training on its management
and administration have not taken place.
(6)    Creditor's procedures and guidelines on the operations and management of the credit accounts
appear to have been unfamiliar with both the accountants and administrators of the project for a
considerable period. This therefore contributed to untimely submission of the audits and
statements of account.
(7)    Staff tumover due to lack of advancement also contributed to slowing down the delivery of
services.
XII.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The experience gained in reforming KNH has already been applied to transform the status ofEldoret
Referral and Teaching Hospital and the Kenya Medical Training College, into parastatal / semi-
autonomous institutions through Legal Notices. Also with support from USAID and JICA, the Ministry is
using the KNH Model to transform Coast General Hospital,Mombasa the largest provincial hospital into
a parastatal similar to KNH. This goes to show the project was formulated and implemented to provide for
the future sustainability of Kenya's Public health sector in the face of dwindling per capita financial
resources from the Exchequer.
A.    KNH: SUSTAINABILITY
Works and Equipment: There is a provision for the maintenance cost in the budget i.e. about 6% of the
recurrent budget. On new machines and equipment's, maintenance contracts have been signed by major
companies to maintain the equipment, and the suppliers have been required to train the users on
equipment supplied. In addition, in-house training on new equipment has been conducted through this
credit and JICA. Adequate maintenance procedures and safety plans have been put in place. The savings
and revenue generated within the first five years after commissioning of the equipment will be set aside to
enable the hospital to make replacements if and when the need arises.
Training: Enhancing in-house training, already a budget of about Kshs.20 million p.a. (0.5 million US
DOLLARS) has been set aside for continuing training programmes. There is an on-going in-house
training in the established Training Centres of KNH by those who benefited from the project training.
These are basically the management and clinical courses. Medical students both from the University and
67



Appendix C                                  Executive Summary ofBorrower's Evaluation Report
MTC are expected to benefit from the expertise currently in the hospital. Given that about 135 trainees
have benefited from the project, their service to the hospital and their contribution towards training their
colleagues is expected to continue. Thus the sustainability of training is ensured in terms of the
beneficiaries and their expected input.
B. HEALTH PLANNING AND ANALYSIS COMPONENT SUSTAINABILITY
By focusing on efficiency and effectiveness of operations in the public health sector and supporting
Health Care Financing initiatives in hospitals and Health Centers the activities of the component are
highly sustainable.
C. WMS: SUSTAINABILITY
Because of the team spirit that has prevailed during the implementation phase of the project, it will be
possible to continue relying on local expertise within the institutions to undertake data collection and
analysis. However, due to limited resources available to the two sister departments, major activities such
as the Welfare Monitoring programme which covers around 12,000 households from 62 districts will be
difficult to implement without extemal support.
IV. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Given the circumstances under which the borrower operated during the first four years of Project
implementation (explained above), the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. There were constraints
which were created within the system: e.g. the processing of the payments at times took too long time.
V. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
Initially, the performance of the Bank was below expectation particularly with regard to the utility of
Supervision Missions. However, with the new Task Team that came in 18 -24 months before the Project
closed on 30.6.1998 the performance rose way above average in terms of tackling and resolving
implementation bottlenecks and providing an enabling environment for better performance. The
improvement in Bank performance applied both to the Nairobi and Washington offices. The impact of
their good performance is clearly reflected in the implementation progress and disbursements made during
the last 18 months of the project's life.
Under the KNH component, in some instances the Bank did not perform as it was expected. There were
no clear cut guidelines on the procedure for ICB. On the matter of the Computerisation programme, there
was no adequate technical advice provided. The hospital is trying to see how it can work on this crucial
programme. With regard to the civil works, the Bank was very understanding and agreed to accept the
changes including the extra works and the need for extension of the project period. The Bank was also
fast in processing the "no objections" to some of the requests the borrower was passing and also trying to
harmonise the system especially in processing the payments in theMoH. Finally, in training, this is the
component with lots of success.
68



Appendix C                                  Executive Summary ofBorrower 's Evaluation Report
VI. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The key lessons learned during the implementation of the Kenya Health Rehabilitation include the
following:
1.    There is need to involve all key stakeholders at the time of project formulation; preparation, and
appraisal, as well as at each stage of implementation through effective teamwork.
2.    Clearly defined performance indicators /standards have to be agreed upon at the time of project
appraisal to ensure effectively and timely implementation.
3.     Adequate procurement capacity is a pre-requisite, for effective project implementation.
4.    Preparation of realistic annual work plans; Procurement and Training plans forms an integral part
of effective project implementation.
5.    Where many implementing officers/agencies are involved in the implementation of various
components of a project a mechanism for regular and independent monitoring of implementation
of Project activities, and disbursements is indispensable.
6.    On civil works, extra care need to be taken in the initial stages during the preparation of the
project. These initial stages have negatively affected the implementation of the project. This
involves the identification of areas to be rehabilitated and their structural implications.
7.    The procedure of payment especially through special accounts should be looked at with the aim of
shortening the process.
8.    The Bank should be in a position to give altemative technical advise on what the borrower wants
e.g. the issue of KNH computerisation where the hospital had given so many proposals to the
Bank, but the Bank fails to give the best feasible alternative.
9.    The issue of primary health care (especially environmental factors) is very crucial if the project on
health sector can have successful outcomes. Future projects need not only to cover the buildings
and equipment in clinical areas but move/expand to the peripheral environment. More emphasis
is expected in primary health care so as to reduce preventable diseases.
THE COMPLETE BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT IS AVAILABLE FROM THE
PROJECT FILES.
69



Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Appendix D: Borrower's Comments on Draft Implementation Completion Report
As the Borrower had the opportunity to comment on an earlier draft of the ICR during the ICR
mission, and these comments were reflected in the Aide-Memoire and revised draft ICR, the Borrower
opted not to provide further comments on the final draft.
70



Kenya
Health Rehabilitation Project
Appendix E: Map of Kenya
71



r                                                               ;:                             f r                  KENYA                BRD2275~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD 25
K/ G v ~~~~NAIROBI AREA
A i; // ~~~~~HEALTH FACILITIES
'. \  To Kiernbu  r   >   g     X                                 O   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~City C-missio
/   /S,      '>                %           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KASSARAN      IIIN.,-    Ralod-6
.            ~~~~~~~~P U M W A N i/                                         E3./                                           River
[  _  _  S  z \ / F - --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                      Divki-i B-ud-ri.,
|   -t _                                  ;            /                                   '                      _  _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~City B-udory
.  \DI I v I< _ I ID: N- I n e n h 3c/oudre
4 ~~        ~     ~      ~     ~~~~~~~ - -3 =0'%f ° d       i o       n     d                      >~-~~ 
,CJ                               ,\C    X       9      <       '       f.9         Qg                                      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,~~~~~~~~
~ G <9°zo   i+DAGO   R   ri  tD  IV  S  I    N  5 X n X~ ok ffiXu K DARA>;.M/o..z == .............  os.b . 3
\,  ,  -- O t a 2 5 ! d X-4X ........ ''' D ', ':; -, a .........c                                                                     0 
f  E  Co)    S;      a                   ?      o   --X          ' \                X                 J J            K E N YA            I  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KI.MTI
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 _                         K D  A                         F AOE8R 9
_ ~      ~~~~~~~~~                                                     0



