Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2310 KE
                  (Health Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                 KENYATTA NATIONAL HOSPITAL BOARD
                      Dated December 11, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2310 KE
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and KENYATTA NATIONAL
HOSPITAL BOARD (KNH).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR21,600,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that KNH agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
      WHEREAS KNH, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) KNH declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and health
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Part A of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and KNH shall
otherwise agree, KNH shall carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.03. KNH shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) KNH shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   KNH shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by KNH of its
obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of KNH
      Section 3.01. KNH shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
health service practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02. KNH shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
health service practices.
      Section 3.03. KNH shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) KNH shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   KNH shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                   expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
                   tion;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
                   of its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably re-
                   quested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and
                   financial statements as well as the audit there-
                   of, as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of KNH thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
                   ment shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
            (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
                   ment.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify KNH of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
Page  4
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For KNH:
            Kenyatta National Hospital Board
            P.O. Box 20728
            Nairobi, Kenya
            Telefax:                       Telex:
                   725272                     25052
                                              KNH
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KNH may be taken or executed by the Director
or such other person or persons as the Director shall designate in
writing, and KNH shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                   KENYATTA NATIONAL HOSPITAL BOARD
                   By /s/ D. D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
Page  5
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    The Director of KNH shall be responsible for implementation of
Part A of the Project. Day-to-day Project management shall be
coordinated by the head of the KNH Planning Unit, who shall be the
Project Manager, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. They shall both be assisted by the Client User Group,
made up of representatives from the medical and administrative parts
of the hospital.
2.    KNH shall furnish to the Association at least three months
prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a revised institutional
development plan, a revised training plan and an overall hospital
budget, including, inter alia, a fee schedule, satisfactory to the
Association.
3.    KNH shall furnish to the Association within one month of the
end of each quarter, quarterly progress reports for Part A of the
Project.
Institutional Development Plan
Performance Targets
4.    KNH in agreement with the Association, has established the
performance targets for 1990/1991 - 1995/1996 referred to in the
Annex to this Schedule. KNH agrees to review and revise these
targets annually in coordination with the preparation of its annual
budget and submit such targets to the Association for review and
approval by March 31 of each year.
Operational Objectives
5.    KNH shall revise its 5-year Implementation Plan on a bi-annual
basis to be submitted to the Association in May 1992, 1994, and
1996. Such Plan shall include updates of the Memoranda of Under-
standing with the University of Nairobi and the College of Health
Sciences as well as MOH and NCC. An update of KNH's role in the
Kenyan health system vis-a-vis Moi University shall also be
included.
Organization and Management
6.    In carrying out Part A.5 of the Project, KNH shall fill the
positions of Hospital Director, Deputy Director (Clinical Services),
Head of Planning, Deputy Director of Administrative Services, Head
of Finance, Head of Personnel and Training, Chief Administrative
Officer (General Administration), and the Supplies and Procurement
Manager. Since the Planning Unit plays a vital role in implementing
the reform, KNH also agrees to augment the staffing of the Planning
Unit by two full-time Planning Officers by March 31, 1992.
7.    KNH shall, by June 30, 1992, review its relationship with the
University of Nairobi and reach agreement on the reporting relation-
ship and coordination of personnel between KNH and the University.
8.    KNH shall, by March 31, 1992, develop charges for services
rendered to the Kenya Medical Training College and the Kenya Medical
Research Institute and reach agreement on all aspects of cooperation
in the form of a Memorandum of Understanding. KNH shall thereafter
review all fees and charges on a yearly basis with a view to recover
its costs and ensure timely payment for the provision of steam and
fuel.
9.    KNH shall appoint a Management Adviser under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association.
Financial Management
10.   KNH shall:
Page  6
            (i)   introduce computerization of accounts by Decem-
                  ber 31, 1994;
           (ii)   from 1995 onward, prepare quarterly financial
                  reports to be used as a tool for improved finan-
                  cial forecasting and management information.
          (iii)   KNH shall implement a management accounting
                  system by June 30, 1992.
11.  KNH shall, by June 30, 1992, introduce actual versus planned
budget analysis for all functional units and will provide to the
Association detailed account of all major deviations.
12.   KNH shall cost major medical services and increase fees with
the aim of full cost coverage for out-patients by 1995. KNH shall
furnish to the Association for review by March 31 of each year its
draft budget for the next year including its proposed fee structure
and depreciation schedule.
Personnel Management
13.   KNH shall:
            (i)   by March 31, 1992, complete the exercise of
                  transferring staff who have opted to remain with
                  MOH, from KNH to MOH and resolve any differences
                  in the number of staff working versus staff paid;
           (ii)   commencing March 1992, undertake quarterly re-
                  views of authorized posts and abolish non-essen-
                  tial unfilled posts;
          (iii)   by June 30, 1992, adopt those recommendations of
                  the Department of Personnel Management Report on
                  the improvement of the Personnel and Training
                  functions within the Hospital that would lead to
                  an effective and efficient Personnel Training
                  Department;
           (iv)   by June 30, 1992, establish a Manpower Informa-
                  tion System comprising of, inter alia, personnel
                  records, personnel statistics and personnel
                  registry; and
            (v)   revise its training projections in a systematic
                  manner by March 31 of each year to ensure that
                  the training programs remain consistent with the
                  overall objectives of the hospital.
Materials/Drugs Management
14.   KNH shall by June 30, 1992:
            (i)   undertake an inventory of existing stocks, write
                  off obsolete items, bring prices to current price
                  levels, and bring records up to date;
           (ii)   introduce computerization of stock management;
          (iii)   recruit an inventory control/materials management
                  specialist under terms and conditions satisfacto-
                  ry to the Association.
15.   The KNH Pharmaceutical Committee shall, by December 31, 1992,
produce a list of main drugs and pharmaceuticals that are to be used
in KNH. This list will be revised and updated yearly.
16.   KNH shall by June 30, 1992, establish a Supplies Committee to
monitor consumption of supplies and to develop a standardized list
of supplies to be used at KNH. This list shall indicate what
Page  7
supplies are to be stocked or purchased directly and shall be
revised continuously depending on need.
Maintenance Management
17.   KNH shall by December 31, 1992:
            (i)   develop and implement a system for preventive and
                  curative maintenance;
           (ii)   develop and implement safety plan for the Hospi-
                  tal to be prepared;
          (iii)   prepare proposals for correct housekeeping proce-
                  dures for the Hospital to be drawn up; and
           (iv)   prepare and implement guidelines for the inclu-
                  sion of maintenance, safety, and housekeeping
                  criteria in future acquisitions and purchasing.
Efficiency and Quality
18.   KNH shall:
            (i)   by June 30, 1992, conduct assessments of clinical
                  quality and administrative efficiency of the
                  following Departments:
                  -     Laboratory
                  -     Theater
                  -     Pharmacy
                  -     CSSD/TSSU
                  -     X-ray
                  -     Casualty
           (ii)   by June 30, 1995, perform assessments of
                  efficiency and quality of service on all remain-
                  ing departments;
          (iii)   by April 30, 1992, establish and implement a
                  quality assurance plan  that is acceptable to the
                  Association; and
           (iv)   by April 30, 1992, appoint a quality assurance
                  manager at department head level and by May 31,
                  1992, establish a quality assurance department.
19.   KNH shall, starting in 1993, define performance targets for
each functional area and compare them with actual figures at the end
of each year. In 1994, KNH shall define targets for the number of
units to be produced in each functional area using the data of 1993.
20.   In 1993, KNH shall calculate the direct costs of each
functional area, using the installed cost accounting system.
Private Services
21.   KNH shall operate its Private Wing according to its budget and
without subsidy from the other operations of the Hospital.
22.   KNH shall construct office space for rental to KNH consultants
to see and treat private patients. KNH shall ensure that the
operation of the said offices will not be subsidized by KNH's other
operations.
                                                                    ANNEX
                            KNH Performance Targets
                      89/90   90/91   91/92  92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96
Page  8
PRODUCTIVITY TARGETS
Average Length of     8.5     8.5     8.3    8.0     7.7     7.4     7.1
  Inpatient Stay
  (days)
Staff per 1,000       5.4     5.4     5.3    5.0     4.8     4.6     4.4
  Patient Days
FINANCIAL TARGETS
Operating Costs per   578     602     602    600     600     580     555
  Inpatient Day
  (constant 1990/91
   KSh)
Net Income (current   (0.9)   0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     4.0
  KSh million)
Fees/Recurrent Expen- 1.8     3.6     15.0   15.5    17.2    21.7    22.8
  ditures (%)
  (fees include user
  charges & NHIF
  reimbursements)
MOH Grant to KNH/     94.9    82.5    82.3   76.0    72.7    72.0    71.4
  Recurrent Expendi-
  ture (%)
Grant to KNH as share 13.7    12.5    13.2   12.9    12.6    12.2    11.9
  of MOH Budget (%)
FACILITY TARGETS
Maintenance/Recurrent 2.2     3.8     5.0    6.0     6.0     6.0     6.0
  Expenditures (%)
