Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2310 KE
                  (Health Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 11, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2310 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1991, between  REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by Kenyatta
National Hospital Board (KNH) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to KNH the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and KNH;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 15, 1989, and
September 29, 1989, and October 19, 1990, and November 13, 1990,
between the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   "Special Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "KNH" means Kenyatta National Hospital Board, es-
tablished pursuant to the Kenyatta National Hospital Board Order of
1987;
      (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Kenyatta National Hospital Board (KNH), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (e)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (f)   "MPND" means the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
National Development;
      (g)   "NCC" means the Nairobi City Commission established by
Order of the Minister of Local Government under the Local Government
Act, Chapter 265 of the Borrower's Laws;
      (h)   "HIV" means the Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
      (i)   "AIDS" means the Acquired Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome;
      (j)   "DPD" means the Division of Planning and Development in
MOH;
      (k)   "Nairobi/PHMB" means the Provincial Health Management
Board for the Nairobi Area;
      (l)   "PMO/Nairobi" means the Provincial Medical Officer of
MOH for Nairobi; and
      (m)   "KSh" means Kenya Shillings the currency of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
one million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
21,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars three special deposit accounts (KNH
Special Account, MOH Special Account and MPND Special Account), in
its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
commencing February 15, 2002, and ending August 15, 2031. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2011, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
Page  4
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and health service practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such Parts of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause KNH to
perform all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable KNH to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Part A of the Project available to KNH as a grant.
      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and D of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (e)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall make a grant from its own
resources to KNH in a manner and at a level satisfactory to the
Association.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and ser-
vices, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project
shall be carried out by KNH pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Page  5
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall by September 30 annually
furnish to the Association evidence of an increase in spending on
preventive health services as a share of both budgeted and actual
recurrent spending by MOH from general revenues.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by March 31, 1992: (a)
implement the reorganization of DPD, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association; and (b) establish and thereafter maintain the MOH
Committee on Health Policy, Strategic Planning and Development.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) by March 31, 1992,
assume responsibility for KSh 45 million being KNH's accounts
payable as of June 30, 1987; and (b) by June 30, 1993, assume
responsibility for KNH's accounts payable, following confirmation
thereof in KNH's audited accounts for 1987/1988, 1988/1989, and
1989/1990.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) by September 30, 1993,
carry out jointly with the Association and KNH, a mid-term review of
the progress in carrying out the Project; and (b) promptly thereaf-
ter implement the recommendations of such review. The review shall
cover, inter alia, progress in health financing reforms, the
investment and reform program in the health sector, financial and
managerial strengthening of KNH and improvements in the provision of
health services in Nairobi.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account for Parts B, C and D of the Project were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Accounts was made, all records (contracts,
Page  6
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall reintroduce out-patient
consultation user charges at the December 1989 levels by: (a)
July 1, 1992, at the District and Sub-district hospitals; and (b)
January 1, 1993, at health centers.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, maintain a graduated structure of user fees for health
services at levels satisfactory to the Association, differentiating
between dispensaries, health centers, public hospitals and KNH. Such
structure shall include provision, satisfactory to the Association,
for exemptions based on need.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   KNH shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that KNH will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The KNH Order shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of KNH to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of KNH or for the suspension of its operations.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   The Borrower has reintroduced out-patient consultation
user charges at KNH and all Provincial general hospitals, at the
December 1989 levels.
      (b)   KNH has furnished to the Association: (i) its audited
accounts for 1988/1989 and 1989/1990; and (ii) the overall hospital
budget for the first fiscal year of Project implementation.
      (c)   KNH has appointed the eight senior managers and the
Management Adviser to the Director, referred to in paragraphs 6 and
9 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, all with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
Page  7
      (d)   The Borrower has implemented an interim proposal,
satisfactory to the Association, for coordinating health services in
the Nairobi area.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by KNH, and is legally binding upon
KNH in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi, Kenya
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINANCE                   22921
                   Nairobi                   MINFIN-KE
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                         By /s/ D. D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                 90%
    (a)  for Part A
         of the Project        5,400,000
    (b)  for Part B
         of the Project        1,900,000
(2) Equipment, vehicles,                        100% of foreign
    materials and supplies                      expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
    (a)  for Part A
         of the Project        4,000,000
    (b)  for Part B
         of the Project          500,000
    (c)  for Part C
         of the Project           60,000
    (d)  For Part D
         of the Project          400,000
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) Consultants'                                100%
    services, studies
    and training
    (a)  for Part A
         of the Project        2,000,000
    (b)  for Parts B and
         C of the Project      2,300,000
    (c)  for Part D of
         the Project             900,000
(4) HIV/AIDS-related             700,000        100%
    supplies
(5) Refunding of               1,100,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                2,340,000
Page  9
                              __________
         TOTAL                21,600,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
      (a)   no withdrawals shall be made in respect of (i) payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equi-
valent of SDR 500,000, may be made in respect of Category (2) (b) on
account of expenditures before that date but after February 1, 1991,
(ii) payments with respect to expenditures under Category (1)(b)
until the Borrower has adopted the Strategic Plan for Health
Services referred to in Part B.1 of the Project and has submitted
detailed proposals for the construction and rehabilitation of
health services/facilities in the Nairobi area, other than KNH, and
(iii) payments with respect to expenditures under Categories (2) (d)
and (3) (c) until the Borrower has furnished to the Association, an
Implementation Program, acceptable to the Association, for carrying
out Part D of the Project; and
      (b)   payments with respect to expenditures under Category (4)
shall not exceed the equivalent of $350,000 per annum.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
program of reform in the health sector by: (i) rehabilitating KNH to
reduce its burden on the budget of the Borrower and to permit  an
increase in expenditure for preventive and primary health care; (ii)
improving the delivery of health services in the Nairobi area; and
(iii) preparing for future policy, managerial and investment reform
in health.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Kenyatta National Hospital
1.    Upgrading and rehabilitation of existing buildings and
facilities.
2.    Acquisition of medical and non-medical equipment, beds and
vehicles.
3.    Acquisition of HIV/AIDS-related supplies.
4.    Training of managers and technicians.
5.    Strengthening management capabilities in the area of finance,
personnel and procurement.
Part B:     Nairobi Area Health Services
1.    Development of a Strategic Plan for health services in the
Nairobi Area.
Page  10
2.    Rehabilitation and construction of priority health facilities
for both NCC and MOH.
3.    Acquisition of equipment for such facilities.
4.    Provision of training and management support.
Part C:    Health Planning and Analysis
1.    Strengthening the capacity of the Division of Planning and
Development in MOH.
2.    Carrying out a series of analytical studies of the health
sector to prepare a reform program.
3.    Preparation of a public investment program for the health
sector.
4.    Acquisition of computers and other office equipment.
5.    Strengthening of the Division of Family Health in MOH.
Part D:     Welfare Monitoring System
1.    Development of a National Household Welfare Monitoring and
Evaluation System.
2.    Strengthening of the district-level Central Bureau of
Statistics Office network through the provision of technical support
and training.
3.    Strengthening the Social Sector Department of MPND in
developing its capacity to carry out analytical work.
4.    Acquisition of office equipment to support above activities.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A      International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for civil works under Part A of the Project shall be
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
supplies shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
Page  11
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $3,300,000, goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000, and vehicles may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.    HIV/AIDS-related supplies may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of Prequalification
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower and KNH in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
                      Implementation Program
Part B of the Project
1.    The Borrower shall maintain the Nairobi/PHMB chaired by the
Director of Medical Services which shall oversee the development of
the strategic plan referred to in Part B.1 of the Project, with
support from a small secretariat. The said strategic plan shall have
the following elements:
      (a)   establishment of an organizational structure with
authority, accountability and responsibility for health services;
      (b)   coordination of all health services in the area,
including referral protocols and transport arrangements;
      (c)   deployment of medical faculty from the University of
Nairobi to extend teaching and training downward from KNH to
secondary and primary facilities; and
      (d)   a public investment program for Nairobi which identifies
health priorities and proposes to meet them through consolidation,
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing facilities and future
capital and human resource development activities.
Part C of the Project
2.    DPD shall prepare and plan future health sector reform under
the guidance of the Committee on Health Policy, Strategic Planning
and Development. DPD shall carry out the following analytical
studies in preparing the reform program:
      (a)   assessment of the physical condition of health facili-
ties and equipment;
      (b)   development of health personnel planning;
      (c)   a long-term strategy for the education and training of
health personnel to include not only health care professionals and
administrators;
      (d)   coordination of intersectoral activities in health-
leading to a strategy for the reform of policies, organizational
mechanisms and management of health related programs in the public
sector, NGOs and the private sector;
      (e)   assessment of the resource gap for the curative sector;
and
      (f)   analysis of the pharmaceutical procurement and distribu-
tion system.
3.    DPD shall carry out such additional studies as may be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association as being necessary for the
preparation of the sectoral reform program.
4.    The Borrower shall complete all the studies referred to in
paragraph 2 above, by June 30, 1992, and furnish the report of each
study to the Association for its review and comments within three
months of its completion.
5.    The Borrower shall by December 31, 1992, furnish to the
Association for its review and comments the public investment
program and policy reform program for the health sector.
6.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review
and comments the study to prepare a plan for reorganizing and
staffing of DPD, and by March 31, 1992, implement the recommenda-
tions of such study taking the Association's comments into account.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  13
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a),
(2)(a), (3)(a) and (4) for the KNH Special Account, Categories
(1)(b), (2)(b), (2)(c) and (3)(b) for the MOH Special Account and
Categories (2)(d) and (3)(c) for the MPND Special Account set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 for the KNH Special Account, $500,000 for
the MOH Special Account and $200,000 for the MPND Special Account to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Accounts such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Accounts at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Accounts such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the respective Special Accounts for
                  eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
Page  14
deposits into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account concerned as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account concerned (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account concerned shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account concerned.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
