Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15382
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR.1824-UG)
FEBRUARY 14,1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At time of ICR   Ush 929   = US $ 1.00
(Sept. 1995)    Ush 150   = Nkrl.00
Ush 1,246 = ECU 1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m3             cubic meter
M              million
ha             hectare
Ush            Uganda shilling
Nkr            Norwegian Crown
ECU            European Currency Unit
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOU                Bank of Uganda
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
EDF                European Development Fund
EU                 European Union
FD                 Forestry Department, GOU
GOU                Government of Uganda
IDA                International Development Association
NFS                Norwegian Forestry Society
NGO                Non-governmental Organization
NORAD              Norwegian Aid
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
TA                 Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FORESTRY RFHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1824-UG)
CONTENTS
PREFACE ......i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT ...........................................6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...........................................7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...........................................9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...........................................9
H. FUTURE OPERATION ..........................................                            10
I. LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..........................................                   12
APPENDICIES
MAP
This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1824-UG)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Uganda Forestry
Rehabilitation Project, for which Credit Cr. 1824-UG in the amount of SDR10 million
(US$13.775 million equivalent) was approved on July 6, 1987 and made effective on
January 11, 1988.
2.    The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994. The Credit was completely
disbursed with the last disbursement taking place in May 1995.
3.    The ICR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(CP) on behalf of AF2AE Division of the Africa Region and reviewed by Sushma
Ganguly, Division Chief (AF2AE) and S. Agarwal, Project Adviser (AF2). The ICR is
based on information obtained from the project files and on the findings of an ICR
mission which visited Uganda in September 1995. No comments on the ICR were
received from cofinanciers. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing input to the Aide-memoire drafted by the FAO/CP completion mission. The
Government (Forestry Department, Ministry of Natural Resources) has also prepared a
draft Implementation Completion Report for the project; a copy of the Government's
written assessment of the project's performance is available in project files. Comments
from the Borrower on the Bank's draft completion report have been appropriately
reflected in this ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 1824-UG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     During the period 1980-88, IDA supported the agricultural sector in Uganda by
providing four credits which focused on sector reconstruction, agricultural development
and sugar rehabilitation. In 1990, IDA provided further assistance to the sector by making
available some US$ 121 million for an agricultural sector adjustment credit and a
livestock services project.
Project Objectives
2.     The main objectives of the Forestry Rehabilitation Project were to (i) increase the production
of woodfuels and poles for the urban population; (ii) increase the production of wood products for the
rural population and conserve soil fertility; (iii) manage and conserve Uganda's natural forests for
sustained timber and charcoal production by the private sector, as well as improve revenue collection
from logging, environmental protection and nature conservation; (iv) increase the productivity of the
softwood plantations for sustained production of timber by the private sector, and encourage a shift in
exploitation of timber from natural forests to softwood plantations; (v) provide institutional support to
the Forestry Department (FD), and create the management and information base for long-term
planning, development and conservation of Uganda's forest resources. To achieve these objectives, the
project included components for peri-urban plantations and pilot woodfarms,farm forestry,
rehabilitation of naturalforest management, rehabilitation of softwood plantations, strengthening of
the Forestry Department and training; some six co-financing agencies/multi- and bilaterals undertook
the funding of these components along with the Government.
3.    In general, the project's objectives were in line with GOU's national development objectives
and priorities. The project design reflected balanced objectives of forestry production, resource
conservation and environmental protection. It also endeavored to involve the private sector and Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in forestry development. However, the project design was
complex and, its objectives were arnbitious and demanding for the limited managerial capacity of FD
at the time the project was initiated.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     The planting achievements under the Peri-urban Plantations and Pilot Wood Farms
component have been substantial. In recent years the rate of planting by private farmers had, in some
locations, surpassed that of the FD. Sustainability of private planting is confirmed by the minimal
subsidies provided in some locations, and by the harvesting of private plantations as cash crops.
5.     The early achievements under the Farm Forestry component were encouraging, with the
successful establishment of a large number of nurseries in many districts throughout Uganda. Some
rural tree planting from that era remains in evidence. The majority of the nurseries have become semi-
privatized small businesses, run by retrenched FD staff. However, as a result of the premature halting



of component activities (DANIDA withdrew its support in 1991), the component was only partiaDy
successful.
6.     The Rehabilitation of Natural Forest Management component was also successful in that
(supported by the activities under the component for Forest Department Rehabilitation), it led to
improved conservation and management of natural forest resources and resulted in a steady increase
in recorded production from selective felling in natural forest reserves. The lengths of forest
boundaries treated greatly exceeded SAR targets, which has contributed markedly to restoring the
integrity of Forest Reserves. The identification and demarcation of Nature Reserves and associated
buffer zones was given priority, and 50% of all forest reserves were assigned to these categories. This
emphasis in operations, combined with improved boundary control, has tended to mitigate against
forest production and charcoal-making, both legal and illegal.
7.     Given the over-mature age-structure of Uganda's industrial softwood plantations, the key
target for the Rehabilitation of Softwood Plantations component was for clearfelling and replanting.
Less than 20% of this target was achieved because the private sector processing capacity was
inadequate to respond fully to an expanding domestic market. Overall, however, this component
succeeded in promoting the use of softwoods in the market as a partial substitute for hardwood from
natural forests, and in view of its mixed performance, the component is judged to have been only
partially successful.
8.     The impact of the Strengthening of the Forestry Department component was below
expectation. As a result of delays in awarding contracts and subsequent escalation in costs, the civil
works envisaged under the component were not carried out per plan; in the districts, little of the
planned construction or rehabilitation of houses and offices took place. At Headquarters, the
mechanical workshop, training sawmill and new HQ office block were about 70% completed.
However, in order to complete the outstanding civil works, the GOU has attached high priority to the
completion of the FD headquarters and workshop. The management systems, including procurement,
accounting, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and coordination systems set up at the FD proved
generally inadequate. The exercise involving a thorough inventory-taking of natural forest and
softwood plantations has on the other hand, been greatly successful. Overall, this component's
accomplishments are judged to have been partial, with some shortcomings.
9.     The achievement of the training component was substantial. This achievement was realized
at an early stage of the project which maximized its contribution to FD institutional building. In
particular, the training program achieved most of its objectives in terms of numbers of trainees,
preparation of training material, awarding fellowships and study tours and conducting in-country
training. Although the SAR did not place high priority on theforestry research sub-component,
provision was made for a consolidation phase, some agro-forestry research and infrastructure for seed
services. The overall achievement of the research sub-component was negligible.
10.    The actual costs of the project were US$ 32.251 million, as compared to US$ 33.309 million
in SAR. Actual costs, classified by components and financing agencies, are presented in Tables 8a
and 8b, respectively. As regards the implementation timetable, the project's start up was delayed
substantially, mainly due to the bureaucratic procedures of GOU and IDA. However, other planned
dates were mostly met (Table 3).
11.    The Bank's performance in identification and preparation of the project was largely
satisfactory, although a number of shortcomings in the design of the project were observed, e.g.,
insufficient consideration given to the details of possible resettlement that may have been required
when dealing with encroachers in the indigenous forest, (though, in fact very little such resettlement



iv
was actually required). Overall, the Bank's supervision and review missions were satisfactory. But
inadequate management systems and complex GOU procedures were not conducive to smooth and
prompt project implementation, particularly in the early stages when project management was not yet
fully conversant with the Bank's procurement procedures.
12.    Given the political, economic and social constraints that prevailed in the country, GOU's
overall performance was partially satisfactory. Over the first four years of the project
implementation phase, counterpart funding was insufficient. In later years of project implementation
(1993-94), GOU took steps to improve banking procedures by allowing the project to use a
commercial bank. In addition, in 1995/96 the FD has been authorized to retain a certain proportion
of its revenue. This satisfactory arrangement should contribute positively to project sustainability.
Additionally, if the improvements in the timber tracking system can be maintained, and the system
extended to other products such as charcoal and poles, or improved rental for forest land realized, then
the FD, if permitted to retain more revenue, would be self-sustaining. A set of woody bioenergy
studies indicate a revenue potential of US$ 6 to 7 million. An increasingfocus on partnership with
the private sector in the ownership and management of peri-urban plantations, farm forestry and
softwood plantations (particularly, large-scale industrial softwood operations) should also contribute
to the sustainability of project activities. Also, in view of the strengthening of the Bank's operations
pipeline with regard to natural resources management/environmental conservation, via the recently
approved Bwindi and Mgahinga National Parks Conservation (GEF supported) and the Uganda
Environment Management Capacity Building Projects, as well as the proposed Protected Areas
Management and Sustainable Use and the GEF Biodiversity Conservation Projects, it is envisaged
that certain elements of the Forestry Project will be sustained. Among these elements are institutional
strengthening of relevant public sector agencies, especially FD, and the development/ conservation of
some critical forestry resources. However, for the sustainable development and conservation of
forestry in Uganda, there is a need for the FD to proceed with and finalize the ongoing formulation of
a National Forests Action Programme (NFAP) for the forest sub-sector, as an integral component of
the National Environment Action Programme (NEAP). Within the NFAP strategy, complementary
forestry development projects could be identified for external and national funding.
13.    At completion, an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 9% is estimated for the project
(SAR: 15%). Project implementation was constrained by ambitious project design and multiplicity of
fmancing agencies, combined with inadequate project management and implementation capability of
the FD, the difficulties related to procurement and disbursements, and the exogenous political,
economic constraints. Project impact was thus mixed and varied by component. However, the
achievements of the project, particularly the qualitative project contributions in areas such as
institutional strengthening (FD capacity building), increased involvement of the private sector (peri-
urban and industrial plantations), introduction of measures to improve FD's sustainability (partial
retention of revenues), and the advancement of environmental conservation / natural resources
management objectives of the Ugandan Government, proved far-reaching and perceptible. Thus, the
overall project performance is deemed satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
14.    The activities initiated under the project face the challenge of Government restructuring of
concerned ministries and constrained public expenditure. Financial limitations could negatively affect
GOU funding of future recurrent costs, which are needed in order to realize project benefits. To this
end, the FD is envisaged to encourage greater partnership with the private sector in the ownership and
management of peri-urban plantations, farm forestry and softwood plantations. In particular, future
private investment in large-scale industrial softwood operations is under consideration.



v
15.    As regards the conservation and management of natural forests, there is a need for GOU to
concentrate the limited available resources on its regulatory and technical support roles. In addition to
the Bank initiatives described under para. 12 above, future operations under the envisaged extension
to the EU funded component on Rehabilitation of Natural Forest Management should greatly assist
GOU in meeting this challenge.
16.    The following key lessons emerged from the project's implementation experience: (i) an increasing
reliance on cost-recovery mechanisms and private sector involvement, both during and beyond the project life,
is a pre-requisite for project sustainability; (ii) project management should be thoroughly briefed on the use of
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funds and Bank procurement procedures in order to maximize the benefit
from the Facility; (iii) the development and adoption of monitoring and evaluation systems should build on
existing practices and take into account the local capacity to manage such systems; (iv) project appraisals
should evaluate not only the expected benefits of project interventions, but also their possible negative impacts,
especially on local communities.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REP!ORT
REPUBLILC OF UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATIONM PROJECT
(CR. 1824-UG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) increase the production of
woodfuels and poles for the urban population through encouraging private wood farming;
(ii) increase the production of wood products for the rural population and conserve soil
fertility; (iii) manage and conserve Uganda's natural forests for sustained timber and
charcoal production by the private sector, as well as improvements in revenue collection
from logging, environmental protection and nature conservation; (iv) increase the
productivity of the softwood plantations for sustained production of timber by the private
sector, and encourage a shift in exploitation of timber from natural forests to softwood
plantations; (v) provide institutional support to the Forestry Department (FD), and create
the management and information base for long-term planning, development and
conservation of Uganda's forest resources.
2.    To achieve these objectives, the project included components for (i) peri-urban
plantations and pilot wood farms (financed by Norwegian Agency for Development,
NORAD); (ii) farnn forestry (co-financed by Danish International Development Agency,
DANIDA and Cooperative Assistance and Relief Everywhere, CARE); (iii) rehabilitation
of natural forest management (financed by European Union, EU); (iv) rehabilitation of
softwood plantations (financed by IDA); (v) strengthening of the FD (financed by IDA);
and, (vi) training (financed by IDA and United Nations Development Programme,
UNDP). The GOU contributed counterpart funding towards the financing of local costs.
3.   In general, the project's objectives were in line with GOU's national development
objectives and priorities. The project represented the first comprehensive Program for the
rehabilitation of the forestry sub-sector after nearly 20 years of chronic deterioration. The
project design reflected balanced objectives of forestry production, resource conservation
and environmental protection. It also endeavored to involve the private sector and NGO's
in forestry development. Various relevant and realistic risk elements were recognized in
the SAR, and some of these were to be mitigated by the provision of appropriate TA.
4.    Notwithstanding the above, the project's objectives were ambitious and
demanding for the limited managerial capacity of the FD at the time the project was
initiated. Moreover, the complex nature of the project design (six components, seven



2
partners in development, wide geographical area coverage) represented a further burden
on the FD managerial capacity.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.   In view of shortfalls in various physical achievements (described below), the
project's overall economic rate of return (ERR) at completion is estimated at 9%1. This
rate, albeit much lower than the SAR estimate of 15%, is considered reasonable,
particularly when viewed in the context of the qualitative project contributions in areas
such as institutional strengthening (FD capacity building), the retention of revenues by
FD, increased involvement of the private sector (peri-urban and industrial plantations),
and the advancement of environmental conservation / natural resources management
objectives of the Ugandan Government.
6.    The achievements under various components were, nevertheless, mixed. Delivery
of physical project inputs, such as civil works and vehicles, varied between the financing
agencies. As shown in Table 5, operational performance of certain key activities was
below the SAR targets. Consequently, production levels were generally depressed. Thus,
the actual ERR's for the separate components were below the SAR estimates. The
following is a summary of the project's achievements by component:
Peri-urban Plantations and Pilot Wood Farms
7.    The planting achievements under this component have been substantial when
compared with SAR targets (FD 168% of SAR target; private sector 76%). In recent
years the rate of planting by private farmers has, in some locations, surpassed that of the
FD, justifying the early commitment by FD to spearhead afforestation of reserves using
the private sector. Sustainability of private planting is confirmed by the minimal
subsidies provided in some locations, and by the harvesting of private plantations as cash
crops.
8.    Notwithstanding the above achievements, the performance of the peri-urban
component was not outstanding. This is attributable to a slower build-up of production
than envisaged in the SAR, combined with a much higher development budget for civil
works than anticipated in the SAR . In view of the substantive planting activity under the
Peri-urban Plantations and Pilot Wood Farms component, its outcome is deemed
satisfactory.
Farm Forestry
9.    Building on CARE's prior experience, early achievements under this component
were encouraging, but unfortunately its activities were halted prematurely. Three agro-
Provided that post-project benefits are realized through a continuing commitment by GOU to post-
project costs.



3
forestry centers were, however, successfully established, and a total of 351 nurseries in 17
districts were handed over to FD by 1991. Some rural tree planting from that era remains
in evidence. The majority of the nurseries have become semi-privatized small businesses,
run by retrenched FD staff.
10.   The beneficial influence of farm trees on agricultural crop productivity was
emphasized in the SAR. Although some agro-forestry tree species were distributed, the
vast majority of seedlings produced under this component were eucalyptus, from which
significant crop benefit could not be derived.
11.  In part as a result of DANIDA's withdrawal in 1991, the component's objectives
were partially fulfilled. Seedling production was 10% of the SAR target, and potential
production benefits were correspondingly reduced. As a result of the early
discontinuation of activities, the component was generally unsuccessful in meeting its
stated objectives.
Rehabilitation of Natural Forest Management
12.   Operations under this component were affected by a number of constraints
including encroachment in Forest Reserves, a suspension of EU funding during 1993/94,
and outputs which were dissipated by the transfer of six major forest reserves to the
jurisdiction of National Parks and Wildlife during 1992/93.
13.   Nevertheless, the lengths of forest boundaries treated greatly exceeded the target
figure of some 1,350 Km; this redemarcation has contributed significantly to restoring the
integrity of Forest Reserves. Enrichment planting within intact forest had, by the end of
1994, reached 80% of target, while plantings within encroached forest had reached 44%.
These are satisfactory achievements, because experience has snown in many project
areas that adequate natural regeneration (as is occurring in these forested areas), often
removes the need for planting, and requires less follow-up and maintenance inputs.
14.   The identification and demarcation of Nature Reserves and associated buffer
zones was given priority, and 50% of all forest reserves were assigned to these categories.
Considerable effort has gone into raising awareness of the environmental value of natural
forests. This emphasis in operations, combined with improved boundary control, has
helped mitigate forest resources degradation (via forest production and charcoal-making),
both legal and illegal. None of the planned refining or charcoal operations were however,
carried out under the component; and, since the training facility for hardwood sawmilling
was not fully implemented under the IDA financed component, it is difficult to associate
incremental production benefits with specific interventions. However, the civil works
program under this component has been exemplary (177 out of the planned 215
buildings constructed or rehabilitated).
15.  In addition to the above accomplishments, improved forest management
measures, supported by the IDA component for Forest Department Rehabilitation, have
led to a steady increase in recorded production from selective felling in naturalforest



4
reserves. These incremental amounts, on average around 33,000 m3/year from 1990-94,
are presumed to be attributed to benefits of sustainable management of the natural forest.
In view of the improvements in management and conservation of forest resources,
introduced under this component, and some resultant incremental production benefits, the
performance of the component is judged to have been successful.
Rehabilitation of Softwood Plantations
16.   Given the over-mature age-structure of Uganda's industrial softwood plantations,
the key target for the component was for clearfelling and replanting. Less than 20% of
this target was achieved because the private sector did not have the processing capacity to
respond fully to an expanding domestic market. In retrospect, the omission of an IDA
project component in support of the private sawmilling sector is judged to have been a
flaw in project design. Nonetheless, up to 20 small softwood sawmills have been
imported by the private sector, following the early lead given by the project and
supported by training under the project. Incremental production, which was partly
boosted by the salvage felling of aphid damaged crops, averaged 17,700 m3/year between
1990-94. Moreover, other benefits were realized through an effective training program in
softwood sawmilling assisted by the UNDP/FAO training component. Overall, this
component succeeded in promoting the use of softwoods in the market as a partial
substitute for hardwoodfrom naturalforests.
17.   The crops in the softwood plantations were generally too old for thinning and
pruning, and the relatively low achievements (pruning 26%, thinning 9%) will not have
adversely affected the final crops. Considerable success has been achieved in new
planting, (93% achieved). However, the areas involved are relatively small and distant
from potential markets. The civil works program in the softwood plantations component
was minimal (only 8 out of the planned 41 buildings were constructed or rehabilitated).
No fire towers were constructed.
18.   Sound planning, timely operations and labor productivity in the softwood
plantations were adversely affected by delays arising from lack of familiarity with IDA
procurement/disbursement procedures and Bank of Uganda (BOU) clearances. In view of
its mixed performance, the component is judged to have been partially successful.
Strengthening of the Forestry Department
19.   The impact of the Forest Department rehabilitation component was below
expectations. In the districts, little of the planned construction or rehabilitation of houses
and offices took place. At Headquarters, the mechanical workshop, training sawmill and
new HQ office block were about 70% completed. The lack of satisfactory performance
with regard to civil works was largely due to early delays of up to two years in awarding
contracts because of cumbersome procedures and subsequent price escalation of about
100%. Moreover, the transfer of FD headquarters from Entebbe to Nakawa increased
substantially the size and cost of the new headquarters building. However, in order to



5
complete the outstanding civil works at Nakawa, the GOU has attached high priority to
the completion of the FD headquarters and workshop.
20.   The provision of vehicles and equipment under this component experienced
problems arising from lack of familiarity with IDA procurement procedures, delays by
BOU in the issue of letters of credit, and GOU tender approvals. As a result, the first
batch of deliveries was delayed until three years after the project had started.
21.   Technical assistance involved cooperation with short and long term experts and
the commissioning of a number of studies (Table 7). However, the setting-up of
management systems, including procurement, accounting, monitoring, evaluation,
reporting and coordination, was unsatisfactory. Limited impact on program planning and
execution, at strategic, tactical or operational levels, seems in evidence. This deficient
transfer and absorption of skills, limited the effect of the project interventions on FD
strengthening.
22.   The exercise involving a thorough inventory taking of natural forest and softwood
plantations has been greatly successful. However, the benefits from outputs have not yet
been fully translated into the planning and management of forest resources. The FD
capability to conduct further inventory has definitely been enhanced. Overall, this
component's achievement is judged to have been partially successful.
Training and Research
23.   The achievements of the training sub-component were substantial, and were
realized at an early stage of the project which maximized their contribution to FD
institution building. In particular, the training program has achieved most of its objectives
in terms of numbers of trainees, preparation of training material, awarding fellowships
and study tours and conducting in-country training. Training conducted under this
component, as well as under the EU component, was instrumental in introducing new
concepts in community involvement, forest management and conservation.
24.   Training, however, was constrained by the delayed rehabilitation of the facilities
at Nyabyeya Forestry College, and to some extent, did not provide sufficient field
experience. The completed rehabilitation of the college now provides the basis for
effective training of forestry staff. The sawmill training (largely carried out under IDA
funding) was effective in training operators for sawing of softwood, but did not include
training for hardwood sawing due to lack of rehabilitated facilities.
25.   Although the SAR did not place high priority on new forestry research, provision
was made for a consolidation phase, some agro-forestry research and some infrastructure
for seed services. Limited technical assistance and some vehicles were provided, but none
of the envisaged civil works were carried out. The overall achievement of the research
sub-component was negligible.



6
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
Project Start-up
26.   The project start up was slow with field activities only starting about one-and-half
years after project commencement. The main reasons for the slow start up included: (i)
the complex nature of the project design; (ii) limited managerial capacity within FD for
implementation of such a complex project combined with; (iii) less than expected
performance of the technical assistance inputs; (iv) delays arising from bureaucratic rules,
and cumbersome procedures of IDA and GOU funding, especially since a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was not effectively utilized; and, (v) inadequate and irregular
flow of counterpart funding. Thus, delays were experienced in the recruitment of
consultants, procurement of equipment and progress in civil works, all of which had an
initial retarding effect on realization of project objectives; improvements in project
implementation performance materialized only in the latter project years.
Project Management
27.   The SAR recognized the critical importance of national project management,
supported by TA to FD. The project's management faced difficulties in carrying out its
responsibilities. These difficulties included (i) lack of familiarity with disbursement and
procurement procedures of IDA and BOU, issue of Letters of Credit, approvals from
Central Tender Board and from Ministry of Housing; (ii) lack of an effective and
operational monitoring and reporting system, as well as an inadequate system of financial
control for the project; (iii) lack of comprehensive operational planning of activities by
project management during implementation; (iv) insufficient priority given to the
supervision of field activities by project management staff; and, (v) transfer of managerial
skills by TA to the national team which was less effective than anticipated.
28.   During the latter years of project implementation, project management was also
faced with issues resulting from certain external factors; e.g., decentralization of forest
administration; transfer of selected forest reserves to National Parks and Wildlife; and
restructuring of the responsible Ministry.
Supervision and Review Missions
29.   The number (10) of the Bank's supervision missions mounted in response to
different needs, particularly at earlier stages of project implementation, was within the
average range. In addition, a few short-term World Bank staff visits to review progress
and follow-up project activities were also carried out. These missions incorporated well-
balanced specialized staff skills (Table 13).
30.   There was continuity among missions in terms of follow-up on critical issues,
recommendations and action plans. The quality of mission reporting was reasonably high
and (i) provided accurate analysis of project progress and difficulties; (ii) recognized



7
important issues and constraints; and (iii) proposed pragmatic solutions. This quality
was attributable in part to the constructive contributions of the project mnagement team
including other concerned GOU officers.
31.   Although it was agreed during negotiations that a mid-term review mission should
be fielded no later than March 31, 1990, the delayed project start-up precluded this
mission. Instead, restructuring of the project was carried out in 1991 and no formal mid-
term review was conducted.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   The SAR envisaged and the Project was based on a long-term life span for the
future operations (36 years), particularly in view of the harvesting cycles involved in
industrial plantation and natural forest components. An increasing focus on partnership
with the private sector in the ownership and management of peri-urban plantations, farm
forestry and softwood plantations (particularly, large-scale industrial softwood
operations) have also contributed to the sustainability of project activities. Furthermore,
although no retention by FD of project generated revenues was authorized by GOU
during project implementation, in 1995/96, FD was authorized to retain a certain
proportion of its revenue. This financial arrangement should contribute positively to
project sustainability. Additionally, if the improvements in the timber tracking system
can be maintained, and the system extended to other products such as charcoal and poles,
or improved rental for forest land realized, then the FD, if permitted to retain more
revenue, would be self-sustaining. A set of woody bioenergy studies indicate a revenue
potential of US$ 6 to 7 million. Also, in view of the strengthening of the Bank's
operations pipeline with regard to natural resources management/environmental
conservation, via the recently approved Bwindi and Mgahinga National Parks
Conservation (GEF supported) and the Uganda Environment Management Capacity
Building Projects, as well as the proposed Protected Areas Management and Sustainable
Use and the GEF Biodiversity Conservation Projects, it is envisaged that certain elements
of the Forestry Project will be sustained. Among these elements are institutional
strengthening of relevant public sector agencies, especially FD, and the development/
conservation of some critical forestry resources, through the formulation and
implementation of a coherent strategic framework for managing Uganda's fragile natural
resource base.
33.   The following measures would also contribute towards reducing the risk of non-
sustainability: (i) improved collection and retention by FD of a proportion of its revenues
for the partial funding of recurrent costs; (ii) greater private sector involvement in the
commercial development of the industrial softwood plantations and in afforestation at
farm level; and, (iii) in the short term, enhanced external funding for both the private and
public sectors to be used in the implementation of complementary projects.
34.  In addition, for the sustainable development and conservation of forestry in
Uganda, there is a need for the FD to proceed with and finalize the ongoing formulation



8
of a National Forests Action Programme (NFAP) for the forest sub-sector, as an integral
component of the National Environment Action Programme (NE4P). Within the NFAP
strategy, complementary forestry development projects could be identified for external
and national funding.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   The Bank's performance in identification and preparation of the project was
largely satisfactory and in line with GOU's national development objectives and
priorities. However, there were a number of shortcomings in the design of the project.
These included: (i) ambitious project objectives, given the limited capacity of FD;
(ii) Ugandan participation in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project
was limited to counterpart collaboration during the Bank's visits to Uganda; (iii)
cancellation at appraisal of the proposed credit facility to assist the sawmilling industry;
(iv) insufficient consideration given to the details of possible resettlement that may have
been required when dealing with encroachers in the indigenous forest, though, in fact
very little such resettlement was actually required; (v) incorporating a relatively high
level of GOU counterpart funding that later proved untenable; and, (vi) unreliable cost
estimates (at appraisal) for civil works.
36.   The Bank's supervision and review missions were satisfactory. The supervision
missions worked closely with the national team and concerned GOU officials in
addressing key issues affecting project performance and directing their efforts towards
facilitating project implementation. Bank staff were also cognizant of the national
political, economic and social setting and its constraints on project implementation. In
particular, the Bank acceded to GOU request for increased IDA contribution to recurrent
operating costs in 1993-94, which resulted in improved field work performance,
particularly, in plantation development and inventory. This development, however, offset
an element of sustainability in the project design, whereby IDA contributions to recurrent
costs were to be progressively reduced.
37.  In the early stages project management was not conversant with the Bank's
procurement/disbursement procedures, compounded by those of the GOU. This was not
conducive to smooth and prompt project implementation.
38.   The procurement and disbursement issues and difficulties should have been
addressed by the Bank at an earlier stage of implementation through training and capacity
building. Eventually they were addressed and largely resolved in 1991, resulting in
improved performance of the project. In this regard, there was a positive reaction from
GOU, and a partial improvement in the management of accounts and finances, as
negotiated with the Bank, also occurred.



9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39.   Given the political, economic and social constraints that prevailed in the country,
GOU's performance was generally satisfactory. Over the first four years of the project
implementation phase, counterpart funding was insufficient. Although adequate
counterpart funds were provided during the last two years (1993-94) of project
implementation, the flow of these funds was irregular and uncertain. These delays and
irregularities undermined effective planning, timeliness of operations and labor
productivity.
40.   The GOU, however, reacted satisfactorily to IDA's requests for improving
cumbersome central banking procedures (especially for obtaining letters of credit) by
allowing the project to bank at a commercial bank and improved certification procedures
for civil works. In addition, during the last three years of the project, the Government
included the project in the cohort of priority/core projects, thereby enhancing the
likelihood of obtaining GOU funding.
41.   The Borrower agreed to establish and maintain in operation a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) with responsibility for coordination among concerned
Government ministries, as well as between international financial agencies and FD.
Although PCC was established, it met rather infrequently to be fully effective. It also
lacked continuity of key members owing to ministerial restructuring. The consequence of
the unsatisfactory coordination led to project implementation problems, especially in
relation to sequencing, certain overlapping of project activities and a loss of integration of
project components.
42.   The Borrower agreed to provide yearly and half-yearly reports to the Bank on the
project's physical and financial progress. These reports received were often delayed and
inadequate. The reports neither recognized management difficulties and problems
(especially during the early years of implementation), nor provided appropriate solutions.
This was partly due to lack of an effective monitoring and reporting system for project
activities.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.   At completion, an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 9% is estimated for
the project (SAR: 15%). Project implementation was constrained by an ambitious project
design and multiplicity of financing agencies, combined with inadequate project
management and implementation capability of the FD, difficulties related to procurement
and disbursements, and the exogenous political/economic constraints. Project impact was
thus mixed, and varied by component. However, the achievements of the project,
particularly the qualitative project contributions in areas such as institutional
strengthening (FD capacity building), increased involvement of the private sector (peri-
urban and industrial plantations), introduction of measures to improve FD's sustainability
(partial retention of revenues), and the advancement of environmental conservation /



10
natural resources management objectives of the Ugandan Government were far-reaching
and perceptible. In view of these achievements, the overall project performance is
deemed satisfactory.
44.   The project thus contributed to the improved knowledge about the national
forestry resources; improved protection and conservation of the natural forest; FD staff
capacity building; and increased involvement of the private sector in forest production.
The revenue collection potential under the intervention was inhibited by the ban on
charcoal production and pitsawing for most of the project period. Also, the required tools
such as, marking hammers etc. (financed by EC) were procured following long delays.
However, there has been a dramatic improvement in this regard in 1995/96. Furthermore,
information bases are being established on biodiversity, pest management and
silvicultural technique. Nevertheless, it is clear that further improvements are warranted.
The FD still needs an effective planning, reporting, monitoring and evaluation system;
completion of the civil works program; and effective management of production forests
based on the findings of inventories carried out under the project are also needed.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
45.   The activities initiated under the project face the challenge of Government
restructuring of concerned ministries and constrained public expenditures. Financial
limitations could negatively affect GOU funding of future recurrent costs, which are
needed in order to realize project benefits. To this end, the FD is envisaged to encourage
greater partnership with the private sector in the ownership and management of peri-
urban plantations, farm forestry and softwood plantations. In particular, future private
investment in large-scale industrial softwood operations is under consideration.
46.   Regarding the conservation and management of natural forests, there is a need for
GOU to concentrate the limited available resources on its regulatory and technical
support roles. In addition to the Bank initiatives described under para. 34 above, future
operations under ihe envisaged extension to the EU funded component on Rehabilitation
of Natural Forest Management should greatly assist GOU in meeting this challenge.
47.  In order to complete the outstanding civil works at Nakawa, the GOU has attached
high priority to the completion of the FD headquarters and workshop. Future training
activities will build upon improved facilities at Nyabyeya Forestry College and at
Nakawa. Following the direction set by the Combined Forestry Training Programme
(partly funded by NORAD), it is envisaged that the focus could shift more to the needs of
the private sector. In addition, further applied research is needed, particularly into forest
conservation functions, the silvicultural challenges of productive management of natural
forests, and the role of Uganda's forests in serving the needs of the rural population.



I. LESSONS LEARNED
48.   The following key lessons emerged from the project's implementation experience:
(a)   Full and active Borrower/stakeholder participation in all phases of the
project cycle would lead to a more realistic and sound project design and
implementation arrangement, and ensure national ownership of the project.
(b)   An increasing reliance on cost-recovery mechanisms and private sector
involvement, both during and beyond the project life, is a pre-requisite for
project sustainability.
(c)   If a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is included in the project design,
project management should be thoroughly briefed on the use of PPF and
Bank procurement/disbursement procedures in order to maximize benefit
from the Facility.
(d)   The development and adoption of monitoring and evaluation systems
should build on existing practices and take into account the local capacity
to implement/manage such systems.
(e)   For projects that include institution building components, there is a need to
develop qualitative indicators to assess achievements of objectives and to
coordinate them with quantitative project evaluation indicators.
(f)   Project appraisal should evaluate not only the expected benefits of project
interventions, but also their possible negative impacts, especially on local
communities, (e.g. to deal adequately with issues related to forest
encroachers and prohibition of illegal pitsawing).
(g)   For effective management of complex projects (e.g., several components,
donors, wide geographical coverage) the establishment, maintenance and
operation of a national coordination mechanism is essential to achieve
appropriate sequencing of activities, and ensure integration of project
components.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives              Substantial    Partial     NegIigibe  NotApplicable
(a)          (0i)         ('a)        (0)
Macro policies                          [ i i             l     i             Li
Sector policies                       El                        El           E]
Financial objectives                  E]                        El            El
Institutional development                          []           El            El
Physical objectives                    El          El]          El            El
Poverty reduction                     El           El           El            El
Gender issues                                 l    E    l        O           E]
Other social objectives               El           E            El[
Environmental objectives                E     ]     n        E    1           E
Public sector management              ElE                                     El
Private sector development                         ElE                        El
Other (specify)                       ElE                       El            E



13
UkaIy         Unike        Uncertain
B. Proiect_ustainability                  (U)            (a)          (a)
WgWY
C.                                         ,aafnr&  usa   Satisfazy   Deficient
(0)           (d)          (a)
Identification                          [O][  j  j
Preparation assistance                  0jI    j]
AppmM                                  []L
Supervision                            []           [l           [O
D.    o         ratisfactory    Satisfactoyr  Deficient
(0)           (a)          (0)
Preparation                             [ l]                       0
Implementation                            I]                     [ I]
Covenant compliance                     [ ]   [                   E]
Operation (if applicable)               Olii          ]            W
E.                                      ahifSa1tQY   Satis y        Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactoly
(a)          (Q)           (Q)              (a)
OE]   W-1  0



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Page 1 of 2
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose                   Year of  Status
Approval
I. Preceding Operations
1.  First Reconstruction     The agricultural component  1980  Completed in
(Cr. 983-UG)            was aimed at sectoral               1985
rehabilitation through
provision of imported inputs
(US$ 19 million of a total  and spares.
credit of US$95 million,
was earmarked for
agriculture)
2.  Second Reconstruction    The agricultural component  1982  Completed in
(Cr. 1252-UG)           was aimed at sectoral               1990
rehabilitation through
provision of imported inputs
(US$17 million of a total   and spares.
credit of US$70 million,
was earmarked for
agriculture)
3.  Agricultural Development  Increase food production and    1985  Closed
Project (Cr. 1539-UG)   family income in project area
through provision of inputs;
strengthening of extension
(US$10 million)         services; support for research
and surveys.
4.  Sugar Rehabilitation     Restore efficient agricultural    1988  Closed
(Cr. 1893-UG)           and processing operations at
the Kakira Sugar Works.
(US$24.9 million)
5.  Agricultural Sector      Facilitate financial         1990   On-going
Adjustment Credit       stabilization; promote
(Cr. 2190-UG)           agricultural growth and
diversification.
(US$100 million)



15
Page 2 of 2
Loan/Credit Title       Purpose                   Year of   Status
Approval
I Preceding Operations
6.  Livestock Services      Reverse the decline in       1990   On-going
(Cr. 21 76-UG)          livestock numbers by dealing
with the alarming animal
epidemic disease situation;
(US$21 million)         bring about improvements in
the Ministry of Animal
Industry and Fisheries.
I Following Operations
1.  Bwindi Impenetrable     Support biodiversity         1995   On-going
National Park (BINP) and   conservation in the BINP and
Mgahinga Gorilla National MGNP.
Park (MGNP) Conservation
Project (GEF)
2.  Enviromnental Management National capacity building in  1995  effective
Capacity Building Project  environmental management         February '96
(EMCBP)                 and natural resource
conservation.
3.  Protected Areas         Assist in conserving natural    Proposed
Management and          areas and biological and
Sustainable Use Project    cultural resources.
(PAMSU)
4.  Biodiversity Strategy and   Improved participatory  Proposed
Conservation in Non-    management, conservation and
Protected Areas (GEF &    sustainable use of biodiversity
GOU financed)           outside protected areas.
5   Agricultural Sector    Strengthen policy analysis,   Proposed
Management Project      formulation and
(ASMP)                  implementation capacity of
sectoral institutions with a
view to improved services
delivery.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle       Date planned            Date actual/latest Estimate
dentification a/            Dec. 1984               Dec. 1984
Preparation h/               July 1985               April-June 1985
Appraisal v/                 Oct. 85 to Jan. 86      June 25 to July 16, 1986
Negotiations                 Jan. 1987               12-18 May, 1987
Board presentation           July 1987               June 17, 1987
Signing                      July, 1987              July 6, 1987
Effectiveness                Oct. 4, 1987            Jan. 11, 1988
Mid-term review              March 31, 1990          May 31, 1990-d/
Project completion           June 30, 1994           Dec. 31, 1994
Credit closing               Dec. 31, 1994           Dec.31,1994
A/ Carried out by EAPNA/IDA.
h/ Prepared by the Bank's Energy Sector Management Assessment Programme (ESMAP)
with Canadian financial assistance.
f/ The appraisal mission was mounted in June 1986 and included representatives and
consultants from IDA and EU.
4/ Project restructuring mission, not a fornal mid-term review.



17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
687188   Y88/89 689/90 690/91 691/92 692/93 693194    94/95
ppraisal estimate   400    2,100    4,400    7,100    9,600    11,600   12,700   13,000
ctal              1,560    2,448    4,073    7,020    9,140    10,831   13,097   13,775
ctualas%of        390      117      93       99        95       93       103      106
atimate
ateof final       May 25, 1995
*uburs oment
FY =From July 1 to June 30.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Page I of 3
Key implemerttation Indicators                    Estimated  Revised        Actual
defined in SAR for years 1988-94                              (Jan 1994)
PER-URBAN PLANTATIONS
AND PILOT WOOD FARMS
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
Planting areas (hectares)                              1,900                2,269
- Forest Department                                     900                 1,513
- Private Farmers                                      1,000                 756
Seedling P odn.('000)                                  5,700                7,563
Roads                                                   105                   0
-riabilitation (km)                                       50
-new construction (km)                                    55
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
Firewood ('000 stacked cum.)                            286                    23
- Forest Department                                      144                    18
- Private Farmers                                        142                     5
Poles ('000)                                           2,653                   150
- Forest Department                                    1,736                   117
- Private Farmers                                       917                   331
FARM FORESTRY
OPERTIONAL ACTIVITIES
Districts involved                                       26                    24
Nurseries established                                  1,030                   351
Planting areas (hectare equivalent)                  379,440                 2,970
Seedling Prodn.('000)                                105,400                10,714
Agrofores Demo.Centres                                     3                     3
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
Firewood ('000 stacked cum.)                            825                     73
Poles ('000)                                           5,306                   470
REHABILTATION OF
NATURAL FOREST MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONAL ACTVITIES
Planting areas (hectares)                             26,000                 14,538
- Enroachment planting                                17,300                  7,626
- Enrichment planting                                  8,700                  6,912
Demarcation
- natural high forest (kin)                            1,350                  4,547
- savannah woodland ('000 ha.)                          632                   2,781



19
Page 2 of 3
Key implemerttation Indicators                     Estimated  Revised       Actual
defined in SAR for years 1988-94                             (Jan 1994)
PER-URBAN PLANTATIONS
AND PILOT WOOD FARMS
Seedling Prodn.('000)                                  4,245                 6,074
-forest planting                                       3,810
-boundary planting                                      435
Refining/Thinning (ha.)                               14,250                     0
Demarcation of Nature Reserves and Buffer
Zones (% of Reserves by area)                           50%                     50%
- Refining/Tninning                                  193                      0
- Selective felling                                   0                     166
- Improved Utilisation                                80                      0
OPERATIONAL ACIIVITIES
Planting areas (hectares)                             2,750                  1,053
- replanting                                      2,000        550        363
- new planting                                     750                    690
Pruning (hectares)                                    2,060                   535
-Ist (2m)                                          310                    178
-2nd (5m)                                         1,750                   357
Thinning (hectares)                                    9,800       1,000        848
- I St                                            4,400
- 2nd                                             2,700
- 3rd                                             2,700
Clearfeiling (hectares)                                2,000                   379
Selective salvage felling (hectares)                      0                    526
Roads                                                   240                    200
- rehabilitation (km)                                   210                    200
- new construction (km)                                   30                     0
INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION
Charcoal production ('000 tonnes)                         27                     0
Harvesting ('000 cum)                                   300                     86
- Thinning                                              204                      0
- Clearfelling                                             0                    52
- Salvage felling                                          0                    26
- Imoroved Utilisation                                    94                     8
- improved Protection                                      2                     0



20
Page 3 of 3
Training Component                                Estimated                        Actual
m/m       No. of partic.       m/m       No. of practic.
Study Tours                                  64                              59           35
Fellowships                                  27                              29            18
Sub-total                             91                              88            53
0            0
Makerere University
Farm Forestry (FO Takeover)                 104
Nyabyeya Forestry College
Teacher Training                              6              6                0             0
Forester/Forest Rangers (FF)                208            104               30.4         66
DFO/FO (Professional Management)             50             20               46.8        256
Foresters (Refresher Courses)               200             20              115.6        224
Forest Rangers (Refresher Courses)          300             30                0.0           0
Forest Guards (Refresher Courses)           150             30                0.0           0
Orientation Courses & Workshop              125             10                0.0           0
Enrichment Planting Technique                40            100                0.0           0
Sub-total                           1,079                            192.8         546
Agroforestry Res. & Demon. Centres
Farmer Training (FF)                        600            160               70.1        525
GkAND TOTAL                                1,842           532              350.2       1,124



21
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                  Estimated                    Actual
N.A.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                          Purpose as defined at Appraisal/  Status     Impact of Study
redefined
1. Forest Inventory of Softwood  Establish stocking rates, sustainable  Completed   Results not yet applied in
Plantations                    timber yields, and working plans.           forest management
2. Forest Inventory of  Natural  Establish stocking rates, sustainable  Completed   Results applied in forest
Forest Reserves               timber yields, and working plans.            management in Mabira and
Budongo
3. Inventory of Milling and   Assess the state of Uganda's     Completed   Limited; findings not used.
Logging Equipment            sawmilling and forest harvesting
industry
4. Market Potential for Ugandan   Market analysis              Completed   Positive impact: improved
Timber Products: Softwoods                                                awareness of softwood
timber in local markets
5. Market Potential for Ugandan   Market analysis              Completed   Limited impact
Timber Products: Hardwoods
6. Charcol Study               Charcol bioenergy study         Completed   Results being applied
6. Study on Encroachment      No terms of reference defined    Not
completed
_~~~~I



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest
(USS M)              Estimate Total
Item
Local    Foreign      Total        US$ M
Costs     Costs
1.   Peri-urban Plantations and Pilot Wood  0.184      0.588       0.772        2.525
Farms
Sub-total                     0.184      0.588      0.772         2.525
12.   Farm Forestry
UFD take-over operation                1.347     2.762       4.109         1.208
NGO activities                        0.565      2.093       2.658         1.173
Agro-forestry demonstration centers   0.010      0.026       0.036         0.029
Sub-total                     1.922      4.881      6.803         2.410
3.   Rehabilitation of Natural Forest       1.379      4.151       5.530        10.198
Management
Sub-total                     1.379      4.151      5.530        10.198
4.   Rehabilitation of Softwood Plantations  0.442     1.418       1.860        2.413
Sub-total                     0.442      1.418      1.860         2.413
5.    Strengthening of the Forestry Department
Logistic support                      0.899      4.144       5.043         8.342
Planning, management, research        0.289      2.239       2.527         4.718
Training                               -          -          -             0.058
Sub-total                     1.188      6.383      7.571        13.118
6.   Training                               0.588      1.515       2.103         1.587
Sub-total                     0.588      1.515      2.103         1.587
Total Base Line Costs                 5.703     18.935      24.639        32.251
Physical and Price Contingencies            5.934      2.737       8.670
TOTAL COSTS                                11.637     21.672      33.309       32.251



23
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
Source                       (SAR Estimates)       Estimate
.................... US$ M.
IBRD/IDA                         13.00              13.78
EU grant                          7.00              10.20
DANIDA grant                      7.50               2.26
UNDP grant                        2.20 AW            1.59
CARE grant                        0.20 a/            0.15
NORAD grant                                          2.53
GOU                               3.40               1.76
Taxes & duties                    0.40               -
OTAL PROJECT COST               33.30             32.25
I/ DCA estimates were: UNDP, US$1.4 million; CARE US$0.18 million.



Table 9: Economic Costa and Benefits
SaL,m,y (libln Udh) (a)          1988-95       1986   t196    1990    iUi    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    t997    199H    IW9    2000    203i    2002    2003    20042(305    2006                     2007
1_- a          1       2        3        4       5        6       7        8        9      t0      It       12       13      1 4      t5 _    t6        7  _   18       1 9      20
Pwl-tkban Plantotbns
Inucrmenhi Blrnefst                 568                                59      143       68      115     1 83     247     30/      365     420      471     521      568      612     655     695      133       169
Dtretcosts                        (1,019             (t04)   (198)   (171)   (316)   (639)   (392)
FOcoststure                       (1.350     (25)    (88)    (76)   (261)   (253)   (339)   (236)    (73)
Post -PrrDied costB                                                                                     (392)   (465)   (465) _A46 _(465)_(465    (4-)   (465)   (46S)    (4659  - 1465) .(4 W)    (465
1 me tlenJiltB                    (2;99J      (25)   (192)   (274)   (373)   (425)   (910)   (513)   (282)   (218)   (1S7)   (looL    (4          _  7   _56          i03    148       190     230     26H      3J0
Farm FGuasky
Incremertal BeneRts                 9t6                        40      96      148      198     246      258      270     256      243     231      220     209      198      188      119     110     161      15d
Dk acdcosts                       (1,146      (2)    (90)   (236)   (754)    (62)                                                                                     1
FDcost Ishtra                      (851      (16)    (55)    (48)   (164)   (159)   (214)   (149)    (46)
Post -Pr -c cost                    (68                                                                  (68)    (68)    (68)  _(8           68)             (60)    (68)  _-    )     (68)    (68) (6i'  )      (68)
[enenb              ~             (,079      (16) X(145)   (246)   (823)    (73)    (16)          91      144     2072     IHH   _     '75   6fi3    152     141_    130      120  u1 142               93 _18s
Natral For_t hbmgmerunt
Inr^emenrrl BenefIts               9.504                      200      620    1.137    1.797   2.875   2.875   2.675   2.875   2.875   2,875   2.875   2.875   2.875   2875   2.8/5   26/5   2,815    28/5
D*trctcosts                       (8.508              (66)   (465)  (1.616)  (1,274)  (2,177)  (1,262)  (1,648)
FDcost slhre                      (6.316    (117)   (411)   (356)  (1t220)  (1,182)  (1.587)  (1g102)   (340)
Post-proecCosts                                                                                                919HH) (1.9HH)  (1.9HH)  (1         988)  (198    1988)0q88)  (1.988) (9H1       88) (1.988)      ud(. Jd.
INotLBrn  s                       (          (117)   (477)   (621)  (Z216)  (1,319)  (1,967)    510      887      887     887      887      887     H87      887     881_        887   887     887     887       887
Sotwood Pt nt tone 
Inoremenral BenefRts               2.677                       89      330     457      558      748     496      496     496      496     496      496      496     496      501     504      506     532       595
Dtrectcosts                       (2.445      (2)    (16)    (27)    (92)   (446)   (585)   (980)   (298)
FOcost slare                      (1,815     (34)   (118)   (102)   (350)   (340)   (456)   (317)    (96)
Poet-P!r122t costs                                                                                               (39)   (95) (39)          396)    395)   (395)   (395) _  35          M 3nj    39S) lss        l9
|N ttZndb                         (15H2       (36)   (134)    (40i)   (113)   (329)   (483)   (548)    100        100      100     100      100     100      100      100     108      109     III      137      200
ANI Compns nb 
Incrmenhi Benefb                  11736                       329    1.104   1,885   2,622   3,964   3,812   3,887   3,934   3,979   4.021    4.062   4,100   4,137   4.179   4.213   4.246   4.30?    4.3J:1
DkOectcoeu                       (lI91H       (4)   (275)   (928)  (2.633)  (2,097)  (3,400)  (Z634)  (1.946)
FDcost stars                     (1Q332    (191)   (673)   (582)  (1.995)  (1,934)  (2,597)  (1803)   (556)
Post-p osscosh                      (460                                                                (460)  (2(916)   19_96_ 2.916)  2916)  (96)  (2.96) 96916(9.96) (291h)A                     (2.9))   (2 29)6
N ttondnt                        1 973    (195)   (948)  (1.181)  (3.524)  (2t147)  (3.375)   (453)    850       971   1,018  1t063   1,106    tt46    t,tH4    1,221    1,263   1.297   _1,330   1.386       t.417
ECONOMIC RATE                  ICR                SAR                                                  (a)  CSts and beneits tve bsen estnatd up to yeaI 2023 (se appendxti .
OF RETURNS (ERR)               1995               1987                                                       table t4) but Ita presenttionpuposes~ the selesaleS uu,cated i9Nthis
Peri-Urban Plant.                   5%               7%                                                      bblealyear 2007.
Farm Forestry                       6%             20%                                                 (b)  Ccsts oa Tralning and Sten4*hening Foest Department love beel
Naturd Forest Mngmt.               10%             45%                                                      allocated to the fifst lour compornents
Softwood Plantations               10%             51%
TrainTg (b)                     r                   t5Ye                                                                  *                                                                       iluetUG IAII9
All Components                                                                                                                                                                                    ..........



Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Page 1 of 3
Present  Present Original  Revised
Agreement Section Covenant Status Fulfillment Fulfillment Description of Covenant             Comments
Type            Date      Date
DCA       2.02 &           C      Continuous            The Borrower shall maintain a Special  The operation of the Special Account was
Sch. 5                                       Account in dollars. Deposits into and   atisfactory particularly following the transfer o
ayments out of the Special Account shall be he account into a commercial bank. However,
accordance with the provisions of   some cash flow problems were experienced as a
chedule 5 to DCA Agreement.          result of overly long waits for goods to clear
ILCs.
CA       3.01 (a)         CD     Continuous            The Borrower shall provide, promptly as    The flow of GOU counterpart funds were
and (c)                                      needed, the funds required for the Project.  delayed, but improved greatly during later years
The Borrower shall, at the beginning of each 93/94) enabling arrears to be paid and improve
quarter, deposit into such (Project) account  field activities. There was, however, some
he amount (in UShs) estimated to be   mevenness in the monthly releases.
required by FD to cover its working capital
requirement for such quarter, which are not t
' covered by withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
DCA       3.03 &           CP     Continuous            rhe Borrower shall establish and maintain in  PCC was established. But, meetings were held
Sch.4,                                       operation a Project Coordination Committee    infrequently to be effective (about 3 times
Item I                                       (PCC) to meet at least twice a year.    ver project's life span).
DCA       3.04 (a) 13      C       12.31.87               e Borrower shall adopt a policy on forest  ew policy on FRM was formulated and was
esource management (FRM) acceptable to  cceptable to IDA.
DCA    3.04 (b) 14      C       06.30.88                e Borrower shall ensure that said policy    o new legislations enacted subsequent to new
is) consistent with the national laws.  licy formulation.
DCA    3.05 (a) 2               06.30.88               itial adjustment of royalties to specified  one.
evels.
DCA    3.05 (b) 2       CP      12.31.88 &             eriodical (semi-annual) increases in   e Royalties have been reviewed and increased
emi-                 oyalties to specified target levels.  periodically but at longer intervals than semi-
ually                                                     nually.
_ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _   ~ ~ ~~tereafter _ _ _ _    _    _    _    _    __        __          _    _   _    _    _    _    _
DCA     3.05 (c) 2       CP     rei-                   eview and adjustment of monthly charcoal   ne but not semi-annually.
___I   _I _____   ually              license fees to minimum target level.



______________________________Page   2    of  3
Present   resent Onginal  Revised
Agreement Section Covenant tatus  Fulfillment ulfiliment Description of Covenant              Comments
Type            Date      Date       .
DCA and  .06 (a) 10        D     April I eac          Preparation and submission to IDA for  Delays in submission of AWPs and budgets were
SAR      (b)                    ear                  eview/comments of Annual Work Programm experienced in earlier years. But reporting improved
para.                                       (inc. budget details) for following FY  substantially over later years.
.08                                         commencing July 1.
DCA    .07              CP     9.30.88              Forest harvesting licenses to include provision  icenses were revised. However, many harvesters
.or equipment in conformity with sound forest perated with deficient equipment and under poor
nanagement practices.                   perational management.
DCA and  .08              CP     3.31.90              Project Performance assessment (mid-term  estructuring of project was carried out in 1991, but
SAR    .12                                          review) by the Borrower                 o formal MTR was conducted
DCA    .09    6         C      Continuous            xecution of Project with due regard to  To the extent that the project was implemented, there
cological/environmental factors consistent  was compliance.
ith GOU's forest resource management
policy.
DCA    .01 (a)          CP     Continuous             aintenance of adequate records and accounts oniputerized accounting system were set in place
I_____  _________     f operations, resources and expenditures    luring later years but were not adequate.
DCA   4.01 (b)          CP/CD  12.31 each            urnish to IDA not later than 6 months after  A general delay was experienced in submitting
& (c)                   year                  e end of each FY certified copy of audited  audited accounts. At the time, the ICR was prepared
ccounts, inc. (i) those for the Special Accoun Sept. 95), audited accounts for 93/94 and 94/95 wer
d the Project Account and (ii) separate  till outstanding.
uditors' opinion on SOE with respect to
w_ithdrawals from the Credit Account.
DCA   6.01 (c) 12       C                           Reorganization of FD and submission of a    Done.
d                                          staffing plan for FD to IDA.
ich.4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ tern   B _ _ _ _ _ __             _  _



Page 3 of 3
Present  Present Original    Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant Status  Fulflilment Fulfilimen Description of Covenant                                      Comments
Type                Date          Date
DCA          Sch. 4,  5          C                                   Ile expert, acting as the Project Coordinator,    New TA in position Sep. '92, and deemed
tem C, 2                                                hall have the same powers as those vested in the satisfactory. This follows expiration of previous
Dpty CFOs and shall be responsible for Project consultant's contract.
_lanning and management.
AR         Para.                CD       End Sept.                 )reparation of semi-annual Progress Reports by  Progress reports received but not on a regular semi-
4.11                          each year                 FD.                                                annual basis.
SAR        Para.                          12.31.94                    eparation of Project Completion Report by FD. CR Draft prepared by FD.
4.11
Covenant Types                                                                     Present Status
I       Accounts/audit                                                   8 Indigenous people                           C = Covenant complied with
2        Financial performance/operating revenue from beneficiaries       9 Monitoring, review and reporting            CD = Complied with delay
3        Flow and utilization of project flunds                           10 Implementation                            CP = Complied with partially
4        Counterpart funds                                                II Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
other resource allocation                 NC = Not complied with
5        Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency     12 Sector or cross-sectoral
regulatory/institutional action
6        Environmental covenants                                         13 Sector policy conditionality:
administrative change
7        Involuntary resettlement                                         14 Sector policy conditionality: regulatory
change
15 Other



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned            Revised              Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle
Weeks    US$    Weeks        US$      Weeks  '000 US$
Through appraisal    _               __r  _ l_31.5                       46.8
Appraisal-Board   l        l_l            _ l_75.1                      135.1
Board-Effectiveness |        _       0p  l                     15.0      28.9
Supervision       l        l        l          l              132.7     279.5
Completion          _        T      I          l          _        I
TOTAL                                         __T_I_l        254.31    490.3



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Specialized
Stage of Project  Month/ Number Days in    Staff Skills                                         Types of
Cycle           Year         of      Field   represented A/ Performance Rating Problem
Persons
Impleme- Develop-
ntation        ment
Status hi Objectives
Through appraisal
Appraisal through   7/86                             F, E, D
Board approval
Supervision
Id/                   6/88      4          36        F                 S           S             M
2                     11/88    3           45        F, PS              S          S             M
3 Z/                  3/89      2          9         F, PS                               =       CW, M,
7/89      3         30         F, PS, FF         U           U             M, F, T,
2/90      3         36         F, PS, FF         UU                             F,P,
6 fl                  5/90       3         30        F, FA, FF, OA                               M, TA,
12/90    1          15        E                   _      ___                    _
7/91      4         32         F, E, PS, FA      U           U             M, F, A
1 1/91    3         27        F, PS, FA          U           UF, P, ME,
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   W ,   IN
10                    12/92    1           7         F                 U           S             M, CW,
11                    3/93       1         11        F                 U    U                    F,ME,
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _          _ _  _ _  _   C~W , A
12                    1/94       1         10        F                 S           S             M, F,
Compleion           9/95       2         32         E, F
IV E = Economist; F = Forester; D = Disbursements; PS = Procurement Specialist; FF = Farm and Extension
Forestry Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; OA = Operations Advisor.
b HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory.
S = Staff recruitment; CW = Civil Works; F = Financial; OS = Office Space; T = Transport; M =
Management; TA = Technical  Assistance; P = Procurement delays; ME = Monitoring, reporting and
Evaluation System; A = Aphid infestation; IN = Slow Forestry Inventory.
4/ IDA/DANIDA review mission.
4' Review missions.
L' Completed form 590 not available.






REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE






UGANDA
Forestry Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1824-UG)
Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    A mission from FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme visited Uganda from 4
to 20 September, 1995 to prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Forestry Rehabilitation Project. The mission worked closely with the Ministry of Natural
Resources (MNR) which has assumed responsibility for the Forestry Department (FD).
The mission held meetings with the Permanent Secretary of MNR, the Director of
Environment and the Commissioner for Forestry. Meetings were also held with
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, World Bank, EU,
UNDP, FAO and DANIDA. Field visits were made to project locations in the west, south
west and east of Uganda, as well as in Kampala.
2.    The mission is grateful to the officials at MNR, officers of the Forest Department,
and Project staff for their assistance in gathering the necessary information and
organising successful field visits. Preliminary impressions and findings of the mission are
presented below and are subject to modification following detailed analysis.
B. BACKGROUND
Funding
3.    The Forestry Rehabilitation Project was prepared in June 1985, appraised in July
1986, and presented to the Board on 17 June 1987. Subsequently, an IDA credit
consisting of SDR 10 million (US$ 13.775 million) was signed on 6 July 1987 and
became effective on 11 January 1988. The credit to be disbursed over 8 years covered
about 40% of the total project costs. According to the project Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), the remainder was to be financed by grants to be obtained by the
Borrower from: the European Development Fund (EDF) for US$ 7 million; DANIDA for
US$ 7.5 million; CARE for US$ 180,000; and UNDP for US$ 1.4 million. According to
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Government of Uganda would contribute the local
currency equivalent of US$ 3.4 million. In 1988, NORAD joined the donors for the
project. The actual disbursements for project implementation were: IDA, US$ 13.775
million; EU, ECU 8.200 million; NORAD, NKr 16.906 million; DANIDA, US$ 2.261
million; CARE, US$ 180,000; UNDP, US$ 1.587 million; and GOU, US$ 1.756 million.



2
Objectives
4.    The main objectives of the project included: (i) increasing the production of
woodfuels and poles for the urban population; (ii) increasing the production of wood
products for the rural population and conserving soil fertility; (iii) managing and
conserving Uganda's natural forests for sustained timber and charcoal production by the
private sector, for revenue collection from logging, environmental protection and nature
conservation; (iv) increasing the productivity of the softwood plantations for sustained
production of timber by the private sector, and encouraging a shift in exploitation for
timber from natural forests to softwood plantations; (v) providing institutional support to
the FD for achievement of the above objectives, and creating the management and
information base for long-term planning, development and conservation of Uganda's
forest resources.
Components
5.    The project included components for: (i) peri-urban plantations and pilot wood
farms (financed by NORAD); (ii) farm forestry (co-financed by DANIDA and CARE);
(iii) rehabilitation of natural forest management (financed by EU); (iv) rehabilitation of
softwood plantations (IDA funded); (v) strengthening of the FD (financed by IDA); and,
(vi) training (financed by IDA and UNDP). The GOU contributed counterpart funding
towards the financing of local costs.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Project Start Up
6.    The project start up was slow such that field activities only started about one and
half years after project commencement. The main reasons for the slow start up included:
(i) the complex nature of the project design (six components, seven external partners in
development and wide geographical area coverage); (ii) limited managerial capacity
within FD for implementation of such a complex project; (iii) less than expected
performance of the technical assistance inputs and minimal transfer of managerial skills
to FD; (iv) delays arising from bureaucratic rules, regulations and procedures of IDA and
GOU funding, especially since a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was not effectively
utilized; these delays were experienced in the recruitment of consultants, procurement of
equipment and progress in civil works; and, (v) inadequate and irregular flow of
counterpart funding.



3
Achievements by Component
(i) Peri-urban plantations and pilot wood farms
7.    The SAR objectives for this NORAD financed component pursued a twin track
approach to afforestation with eucalyptus species on government Forest Reserves near to
six selected urban locations; one by the Forestry Department and the other by small
farmers in the private sector.
8.    This component has been implemented under a low budget, with effective
technical assistance, and has been under national leadership since 1991. Civil works
(nursery, water supply, office, store, housing for forester and labour) at all six sites have
been virtually completed.
9.    Overall, the planting achievements under this component have been highly
successful (FD 168%; private sector 76%). The mission noted that in recent years the rate
of planting by private farmers had, in some locations, surpassed that of the FD, justifying
the early commitment by FD to spearhead afforestation of reserves. Sustainability of
private planting is confirmed by the minimal subsidies provided in some locations, and
by the harvesting of private plantations as cash crops.
10.   The mission was particularly impressed by management control of operations, the
high degree of motivation of field staff and their grasp of operational costs. Further
improvements could be obtained through applied research for effective termite control
and enhancing silvicultural practice.
(ii) Farm Forestry
11.   The main SAR objective of this DANIDA/CARE financed component was to
enable CARE to spearhead the establishment of nurseries and farmer planting, followed
by a handover to FD of viable operations in 26 of the 39 administrative districts of
Uganda. A second objective was to establish three Agroforestry Research and
Demonstration Centres.
12.   The implementation of this component, being co-financed with IDA, was highly
dependent on IDA and GOU procedures. The shortcomings in project management,
including procurement delays, tardy logistical support at district level and a lack of an
acceptable system of financial accounting and control, contributed towards a high level
decision by DANIDA to withdraw its support from the Forest Rehabilitation Project
entirely in 1991. Subsequently, the FD nursery operations gradually ran down through
lack of recurrent funding. Sustainability by FD was therefore not ensured.
13.   Building on CARE's experience, early achievements under this component were
encouraging, but unfortunately it was closed prematurely. The three agroforestry centres
were successfully established, and a total of 351 multi-species nurseries in 17 districts
were handed over to FD by 1991. According to observations of the mission, some



4
evidence of rural tree planting from that era remains in evidence. It is noteworthy that the
majority of the nurseries have become semi-privatised small businesses, run by
retrenched FD staff.
(iii) Rehabilitation of Natural Forest Management
14.   The SAR set dual objectives for this EU financed component of the Project,
namely natural forest management (including restoration of boundaries, planting and
managed exploitation by the private sector) and natural forest conservation
(demarcating nature reserves and buffer zones). To this end, two sources of incremental
benefits were identified: refining and charcoal operations as part of improved
management of logging operations and improved wood utilisation following training.
15.   Operations under this component were affected by a number of constraints
including encroachment in Forest Reserves, a suspension of EU funding during 1993/94,
and outputs which were dissipated by the transfer of six major forest reserves to the
jurisdiction of National Parks and Wildlife during 1992/93. Despite these constraints, the
civil works programme under this component has been exemplary (177 out of the planned
215 buildings constructed or rehabilitated).
16.   The identification and demarcation of Nature Reserves and associated buffer
zones was prioritised on the basis of provisional scores for conservation value.
Considerable effort has gone into raising awareness of the environmental value of natural
forests. This emphasis in operations, combined with improved boundary control, has
tended to mitigate against forest production and charcoal-making, both legal and illegal.
No refining or charcoal operations were carried out under the component; and, since the
training facility for hardwood sawmilling was not fully implemented under the IDA
financed component, it is doubtful that any of the incremental production benefits
envisaged have been obtained. However, improved forest management measures,
supported also by the IDA component for Forest Department Rehabilitation, have led to
a steady increase in recorded production from natural forest reserves.
17.   The lengths of boundaries treated greatly exceeded targets, which has contributed
markedly to restoring the integrity of Forest Reserves. Enrichment planting within intact
forest had, by the end of 1994, reached 62% of target, while plantings within encroached
forest had reached 38%. These are satisfactory achievements, because experience has
shown that adequate natural regeneration often removes the need for planting, and
requires less follow-up and maintenance inputs.
18.   The net effect of the natural forest management rehabilitation component has been
to lay some foundations for conservation and sustainable productive management of
natural forests in the long term, but with less emphasis on production benefits and income
generation in the short term.



5
(iv) Rehabilitation of softwood plantations
19.   The SAR identified four sources of incremental benefits under this IDA financed
component, namely: sawmilling, principally by the private sector; an improved
conversion factor in such mills; softwood charcoal production from non-millable wood;
and, an increase in plantation productivity arising from improved forest fire protection
and reduced wind damage. The component succeeded in addressing the first two of these.
As regards the third benefit, softwood charcoal, some experimentation kilning was
carried out, leading to the conclusion that softwood charcoal would have have potential
demand in industrial applications.
20.   Given the over-mature age-structure of Uganda's industrial softwood plantations,
the key target for the component was for clearfelling and replanting. Less than 20% of
this target was achieved because the private sector was too debilitated to respond to the
challenge, although market demand for softwood was set to expand with the return of
peace and stability to Uganda. In retrospect, the omission of an IDA project component in
support of the private sawmilling sector is judged to have been a design failure.
Notwithstanding, up to 20 softwood sawmills have been imported by the private sector,
following the early lead given by the project. Moreover, other benefits were realised
through an effective training programme in softwood sawmilling assisted by the
UNDP/FAO training component. Overall, this component succeeded in promting the use
of softwoods in the market as a partial subsitute for hardwood from natural forests.
21.   The crops in the softwood plantations were generally too old for thinning and
pruning, and the relatively low achievements (pruning 27%, thinning 9%) will not have
adversely affected the final crops. Considerable success has been achieved with new
planting, (93% achieved). The associated needs for maintenance, pruning and thinning
represent additional challenges which need to be addressed by FD in the future.
22.   The civil works programme in the softwood plantations was minimal (only 8 out
of the planned 41 buildings were constructed or rehabilitated). No fire towers were
constructed.
23.   Overall, the IDA component, Forest Department Rehabilitation offered little
management support or supervision to field activities in the industrial plantations, with
the exception of several forest inventories which were carried out. Sound planning, timely
operations and labour productivity in the softwood plantations were adversely affected by
delays arising from IDA disbursement procedures and GOU clearances.
(v) Strengthening of the Forestry Department
24.   The SAR objectives for this IDA financed component for institutional
strengthening covered logistical support, planning and management, inventory (both
industrial softwood plantations and natural forests), research and training (the last two



6
are dealt with under separate heading). The major part of IDA funding was committed to
technical assistance, civil works, vehicles and equipment under this component.
25.   The impact of forest department rehabilitation was far below expectation. The
construction or rehabilitation of houses, offices or other buildings was unsatisfactory. In
the districts, few of the planned construction or rehabilitation of houses and offices took
place. At Headquarters, the mechanical workshop, training sawmill and new HQ office
block are only about 70% complete, and are largely unusable at this stage. Problems arose
from delays in building approvals by the Ministry of Housing, irregularities in payments
to the contractor, and reluctance by WB and GOU to impose and execute sanctions
against the contractor. It should be noted, however, that the transfer of FD headquarters
from Entebbe to Nkawa increased substantially the size and cost of the new headquarters
building.
26.   The setting-up of management systems, including monitoring and reporting and
overall programme management and coordination, was unsatisfactory. Initially
accounting and procurement systems were unsuitable, but in later years adequate systems
were installed.
27.   The provision of vehicles and equipment under this component experienced
problems arising from IDA procurement procedures, delays by BOU in the issue of letters
of credit, and GOU tender approvals. As a results first deliveries were delayed until 3
years after the project had started.
28.   The inventory of natural forest and softwood plantations has performed
remarkably well. The benefits from its outputs have not yet been fully translated into the
planning and management of forest resources. However, FD capability to conduct further
inventory has definitely been enhanced.
29.   Most of the FD staff met by the mission benefited eventually from vehicle
provision, lamented the lack of civil works, but had little to say regarding technical
assistance for planning and management. This technical assistance involved cooperation
with long term and short term experts and the commissioning of a number of successful
studies. Little impact by the Project on improved program planning and execution, at
strategic, tactical or operational levels, seemed evident to the mission. This observation
on the transfer and absorption of skills qualifies the contribution of the Project
interventions to FD sustainability.
(vi) Training and Research
30.   The SAR objectives for the (UNDP and IDA funded; FAO executed) training
component were to rehabilitate Nyabyeya Forestry College in order to provide in-service
training; rehabilitate Nakawa sawmill in order to provide training in mill and logging
operations; and to undertake limited study tours.



7
31.   This component was successfully completed. In particular, the training
programme has achieved most of its objectives in terms of numbers of trainees,
preparation of training material, awarding fellowships and study tours and conducting in-
country training. Training conducted under this component, as well as under the EU
component, was instrumental in introducing new concepts in community involvement,
forest management and conservation. However, the training component was constrained
by the delayed rehabilitation of the training facilities at Nyabyeya Forestry College, and
to some extent did not provide sufficient field experience. Nevertheless, the
implementation of this component according to plan at an early stage of the project
maximised its contribution to FD institutional building.
32.   The rehabilitation of Nyabyeya Forestry College provides the basis for effective
training of forestry staff. The sawmill training (largely carried out under IDA funding)
was effective in training operators for sawing of softwood, but did not include training for
hardwood sawing due to non-rehabilitation of facilities.
33.   Although the SAR did not place high priority on new forestry research,
provision was made for a consolidation phase, some agroforestry research and some
infrastructure for seed services, under IDA funding of Forest Department Rehabilitation.
None of the envisaged civil works was carried out, but vehicles were provided. Technical
assistance in agroforestry research was not provided, and there do not appear to be
substantial outputs from this sub-component. The FD seeds programme is currently
supported by UNSO, but to only a limited extent. There is, therefore, still an urgent need
for concerted financial and technical support for silvicultural and agroforestry research.
Project Management
34.   The SAR recognized the critical importance of national project management,
supported by TA to FD. The project management faced substantial difficulties in carrying
out its responsibilities. These difficulties included: (i) disbursement procedures of IDA
and BOU, issue of Letters of Credit, approvals from Central Tender Board and from
Ministry of Housing; (ii) lack of an effective and operational monitoring and reporting
system, as well as an effective system of financial control for the project; (iii) lack of
comprehensive operational planning of activities by project management during
implementation; (iv) insufficient priority given to the supervision of field activities by
project management staff; and, (v) lower than expected transfer of managerial skills by
TA to the national team.
35.   During the latter years of the project implementation, project management was
also confounded by certain factors; e.g. the decentralisation of forest administration, the
transfer of some forest reserves to National Parks and Wildlife and the restructuring of
the responsible Ministry.



8
Supervision and Review Missions
36.   The number of supervision and review missions fielded, in response to different
needs particularly at earlier stages of project implementation, was sufficient. In addition,
a number of short-term World Bank staff visits to review progress and follow-up project
activities were also carried out. There was continuity between missions in terms of
follow-up on critical issues, recommendations and plans of action. The quality of
mission reporting was high and provided accurate analysis of project progress and
difficulties, recognizing important issues and constraints, and seeking pragmatic
solutions. This achievement would not have been possible without the positive and
constructive contribution of the project management team, as well as other concerned
officers of GOU.
37.   Although it was agreed during negotiations that a mid-term review mission should
take place no later than 31 March 1990, the delayed project start-up precluded this
mission. Instead, restructuring of the project was carried out in 1991 and no formal mid-
term review was conducted.
Overall Project Impact
38.   The overall project impact was mixed and varied by component. There were
several shortcomings in the achievements of the various components (as discussed
earlier). However, considering the debilitated state of FD and the forestry sub-sector prior
to project implementation, the overall impact of the project was positive. In particular, the
project contributed to the improved knowledge about the national forestry resource;
protection and conservation of the natural forest; FD staff capacity building; and
involvement of the private sector in forest production. However, more substantial
achievements were anticipated. The FD still needs: an effective planning, reporting,
monitoring and evaluation system; completion of the civil works programme; and
effective management of production forests based on the findings of inventories carried
out.
Borrower and Bank Performance
(i) Project Design
39.   The Bank's identification, preparation and appraisal of the project design were
highly relevant and in line with GOU national development objectives and priorities.
Although the project design was ambitious in nature, it was the first comprehensive
programme for the rehabilitation of the forestry sub-sector after 20 years of chronic
deterioration of forestry management. The design reflected balanced objectives of
forestry production, resource conservation and environmental protection. It also
endeavoured to involve the private sector and NGO's in forestry development. Various
relevant and realistic risk elements were recognised in the SAR, and some of these
compensated for by TA.



9
40.   On the other hand, there was a number of shortcomings in the preparation and
design of the project. These shortcomings included: (i) over-ambitious project objectives,
given the capacity of FD; (ii) national participation in the identification, preparation and
appraisal of the project was limited to counterpart collaboration during WB visits to
Uganda; (iii) cancellation at appraisal of the proposed (at preparation) credit facility to
assist the sawmilling industry; (iv) overlooking the resettlement issues and omitting to
explore alternative options for local communities that could be affected by eviction of
encroachers; (v) incorporating relatively high level of GOU counterpart funding that later
proved unrealistic; and, (vi) over-reliance at appraisal on provisional and unreliable cost
estimates for civil works.
(ii) Flow of Funds
41.   Over the first four years of the project implementation phase, counterpart funding
was insufficient. Although adequate counterpart funds were provided during the last two
years (1993-94) of project implementation, the flow of these funds was irregular and
uncertain. This undermined planning, timeliness of operations and labour productivity.
42.   The GOU, however, reacted favourably to IDA's requests of improving
cumbersome banking procedures (especially for obtaining letters of credit) by allowing
the project to bank at a commercial bank and improved certification procedures for civil
works. In addition, during the last three years of the project, the borrower assigned high
priority rating to the project and thereby increasing the chances of obtaining GOU
funding.
43.   Although no retention by FD of a proportion of project generated revenues were
authorised by GOU during the project implementation, in 1995/96 FD has been
authorised to retain a certain proportion of its revenue. This arrangement should
contribute to project sustainability.
44.   The Bank responded positively to GOU request for increased IDA's contribution
to recurrent operating costs (1993-94) which resulted in improved field work performance
particularly in plantation development and inventory.
(iii) Procedures
45.   The Bank's complex procedures, compounded by those of the GOU, were not
conducive to smooth and prompt project implementation, particularly in the early stages
when project management was not yet conversant in the Bank's procurement procedures.
46.   The disbursement issue and difficulties encountered in banking procedures with
Bank of Uganda, especially those related to procurement, should have been addressed by
the Bank at an earlier stage of implementation. These problems, however, were
addressed and largely resolved in 1991, resulting in improved performance of the project.
In this regard, there was a positive reaction from GOU, and a partial improvement in the
management of accounts and finances as negotiated with the Bank.



10
(iv) Coordination and Management
47.   The Borrower agreed to establish and maintain in operation a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) with responsibility for coordination among concerned
Government ministries, as well as between international financial agencies and FD.
Although PCC was established, it met too infrequently to be fully effective. It also lacked
continuity of key members owing to ministerial restructuring. The consequent lack of
coordination led to certain project implementation problems especially in relation to
sequencing, some overlapping of activities and to a loss of integration of project
components.
48.   The Borrower agreed to prepare yearly and half-yearly reports to the Bank on
physical and financial progress. The reports received were inadequate in recognizing
management difficulties and problems (especially during the early years of
implementation) and in proposing solutions. This was partly due to lack of an effective
monitoring and reporting system for project activities.
D. FUTURE OPERATIONS AND MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
Future Operations and Sustainability
49.   The SAR envisaged a long-term life span for the project's future operations (36
years), particularly in view of the harvesting cycles involved in industrial plantation and
natural forest components. Given the limited achievements of the project in generating
and retaining sufficient revenues from its benefits, there is a risk to the future
sustainability of the project interventions.
50.   The following measures would contribute towards reducing this risk of un-
sustainability: (i) the retention by FD of a greater proportion of its revenues for the partial
funding of recurrent costs; (ii) greater private sector involvement in the commercial
development of the industrial softwood plantations and in afforestation at farm level; and,
(iii) in the short term, external funding for both the private and public sectors could be
used in the implementation of complementary projects.
51.  In particular, external funding for the recently identified South West and South
East Integrated Watershed Management Project would contribute positively to the
sustainability of some of the activities already initiated under the present project.
52.  In addition, for the sustainable development and conservation of forestry in
Uganda, there is a need for the FD to proceed with and finalise the ongoing formulation
of a National Forests Action Programme (NFAP) for the forest sector, as an integral
component of the National Environment Action Programme. Within the NFAP strategy,
complementary forestry development projects could be identified for extemal and
national funding.



11
Main Lessons Learned
(a)   Full and active national participation in all phases of the project cycle
should provide a realistic approach to practical design and
implementation, and ensure national ownership of the project.
(b)   An increasing reliance on counterpart funding during and beyond the
project life is a pre-requisite for project sustainability. In order to ensure
continued government commitment, project appraisal should emphasise
the financial as well as economic rates of return.
(c)   If a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is included in the project design,
the project management should be thoroughly briefed on the use of PPF
and Bank procurement procedures in order to maximize benefit from the
facility.
(d)   The development and adoption of monitoring and evaluation systems
should build on existing practices and take into account the national
capacity to absorb changes.
(e)   For the management of projects that include major institution building
components, there is a need to develop qualitative indicators to assess
achievements of objectives, rather than relying solely on delivery of
project inputs.
(f)   Project appraisal should evaluate not only the expected benefits of project
interventions, but also their possible negative impacts, especially on local
communities, (e.g.to deal with the consequences of the eviction of forest
encroachers and prohibition of illegal pitsawing).
E. NEXT STEP
53.   Upon return to Rome, the mission will prepare a draft ICR for submission to IDA
by the end of October 1995. GOU has prepared a draft ICR which is currently being
finalised. The revised version will be submitted to IDA in due course for incorporation in
the final ICR.






REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
APPENDIX B
NOTES ON ECONOMIC ANALYSIS






General
1.    Separate economic analyses [tables B13-B16] have been carried out for the four
benefit-yielding components streams, namely: (i) Industrial Softwood Plantations
Rehabilitation, (ii) Rehabilitation of Natural Forest Management, (iii) Peri-urban
Plantations and (iv) Farm Forestry. Costs associated with the two institutional
strengthening components, (v) Training and (vi) Strengthening the Forestry Department
have been allocated to the first four components, in proportion to their costs in Ugandan
shillings [table B3]. In addition, an overall economic analysis [table B12] has been
carried out for all components combined.
Prices
2.    The calculation of production benefits relies on estimates of stumpage values for
logs (both softwood and hardwood), fuelwood and poles. All stumpage prices have been
calculated in constant 1995 prices, [table BJ 7]. Except for the rural pole market, all
prices are economic (shadow) prices, rather than market prices.
3.    Stumpage values for logs (Ush 25,449/m3 for softwoods; Ush 39,932/m3 for
hardwoods) have been derived from the export parity values of sawn timber. These
prices, representing the actual opportunity cost for sawn timber, are substantially higher
than domestic prices. The principal export market for softwood timber is Kigali, Rwanda;
and, for hardwood timber, Nairobi, Kenya. In the absence of firm local data, average
world prices for sawnwood have been assumed ($234/m3 and $432/m3 for softwood and
hardwood timber, respectively).
4.   In deriving the stumpage values, costs of transport have been updated, and
production costs (sawmilling and logging) have been applied at 60% of ex-mill value
(slightly lower than the SAR figure of 70%). Poorer log conversion rates (33% for
softwoods; 30% for hardwoods) than the SAR figure of 40% have been assumed.
5.    Fuelwood values (Ush 5,444/ stacked) have been derived on the basis of the
Kampala market price (Ush 750/litre) of the kerosene equivalent of the usable calorific
value of firewood. The kerosene value represents the opportunity costs of firewood. The
calculation (which takes into account the relative efficiency of the combustion of fuels) is
essentially an update of that done in preparation for the SAR (Working Paper 13, table 7).
However, it should be noted that the final SAR used market prices, not kerosene
equivalent. The use of a shadow value imputes a higher value for firewood than market
price.
6.    Pole prices have been valued at a market price (Ush 800 per pole), at roadside in
rural areas. The price is an average, applied regardless of quality class. Harvesting costs
of Ush 100/pole are assumed.



2
Benefits
7.    The benefits arising from the four benefit-yielding components above derived
from: (i) thinning of newly planted softwood plantations, clearfelling and selective
salvage felling of existing softwood plantations, and improved utilisation; (ii) selective
felling of commercial hardwoods from natural forests; (iii) pole and firewood production
from peri-urban plantations established on Forest Reserves by both the Forestry
Department and private farmers; and, (iv) pole and firewood production from on-farm
planting.
8.    Only the incremental benefits have been attributed to project interventions. As
might be expected after the elapse of eight years, the magnitudes of these benefits realised
differ markedly from the SAR assumptions. Moreover, project activities and benefits are
generally assumed to continue after the project ended in 1994, until year 2023. However,
this process would be conditional on a continuing commitment by GOU to post-project
costs.
Industrial Softwood Plantations Rehabilitation
9.    Production benefits have been estimated for all the area of selective salvage
felling, the incremental area of clearfelling and the areas of thinning at age 15 years of
crops planted during the project.
10.   Reported areas of clearfelling and salvage felling during the project period (1988-
94) were 379 and 526 hectares, respectively. The clearfelling was significantly less than
the SAR figure of 2,000 hectares. Although a small amount (10%) of the planned
thinning (9,800 hectares) was carried out, none was commercialised. Nor did any
softwood charcoal conversion of thinnings take place on a commercial basis. The need
for salvage felling was not envisaged in the SAR, and arose from tree mortality caused by
conifer aphid infestation.
11.  Incremental clearfelling from year 1989/90 (amounting to 344 ha.) has been
calculated with reference to a base figure of 5.0 hectares per year from 1986/87 to
1988/89, and is assumed to continue at 1993/94 levels after the project. From 2013
onwards, the newly planted areas (690 ha planted during the project) would contribute
towards clearfelling yields, if harvested on a 25 year rotation.
12.  In the absence of comprehensive production records, and in view of the poor
prevailing crop conditions, conservative merchantable yields have been assumed, using
figures obtained locally in Uganda. The assumed yields are 50, 150 and 20 m3/ha for
selective salvage felling, clearfelling and thinning, respectively.
13.   Most of the incremental production was from private sector sawmills, encouraged
by the project. The project also contributed towards better sawmill recovery rates,
through improved softwood sawmilling practices. The SAR figure of 20% increase in



3
recovery on 50% (i.e.10%) of the offtake is assumed. The effect of this improvement on
log conversion rates is assumed to an increase from 30 to 33%.
14.   The SAR also included a productivity increase arising from improved protection
against wind and fire damage. Such thinning and pruning, as did take place, was applied
to crops which were too old to benefit. Nor did the project implement fire protection
measures. Consequently, no increased productivity due to better protection has been
assumed.
Rehabilitation of Natural Forest Management
15.   Although it is difficult to associate increases in production from the natural forests
with specific project interventions, there was a steady increase in recorded production
from selective felling in natural forest reserves. These incremental arnounts are presumed
to be benefits of sustainable management of the natural forest.
16.  Incremental yields from year 1989/90 have been calculated with reference to a
base figure of 126,900 m3/ha, calculated as the average of production in years 1986/87-
1988/89, and is assumed to continue at 1993/94 levels after the project.
17.   The SAR envisaged that some of the production benefits from naturalforest
management would come from the refining (thinning) of "non-commercial trees" for
conversion to charcoal, and through improved utilisation arising from better logging and
sawmilling practices. Since neither charcoal manufacturing nor hardwood sawmilling
activities were promoted under the project, the corresponding benefits have not been
included.
18.   The viewpoint was expressed to the ICR mission that other benefits, such as the
contribution of natural forest management to biological diversity were a benefit that
should be acknowledged. However, in the absence of available and appropriate indicators
and prices, to quantify these external benefits, the conservation and environmental
benefits of the project were not explicitly considered in the economic analysis.
Peri-urban Forestry
19.  Information on area and harvest volumes concerning Forestry Department
plantations under the peri-urban component was available. But, for private planting, only
area information was available. Total nominal areas established during the period 1988-
94 were 1,513 and 756 hectares by the FD and private farmers, respectively.
20.   Based on the SAR assumptions regarding survival rate (75%) and nominal hectare
equivalents (2,500 seedlings/ha), the effective cumulative area is expected to expand
progressively to a combined total of over 6,500 hectares by year 2007. This assumes that
new planting continues at the rates experienced in the last year of the project (1994), and



4
that the effective area depreciates at 5% per annum, thus allowing for replacement
planting, written-off areas, etc..
21.   Applied to the cumulative effective areas, the calculation of benefit is based on
average annual productivity figures, assumed in the SAR, for firewood and pole
production of 12.5 stacked cubic metres and 80 poles (classes I & II), respectively. The
use of average annual figures here contrasts with the SAR approach in which yield is
calculated according to exact felling regimes.
22.   Assuming a 4 year rotation, and using the average yield approach, benefits accrue
from year 1991 onwards. The SAR assumed that felling of existing FD plantations would
commence in 1988, thus providing an early benefit stream. However, this expectation
was not fulfilled.
Farm Forestry
23.   The only source of information regarding farm forestry related to the number of
nurseries and annual seedling production capacity. In total, there were 351 nurseries
established in 17 districts, each with a capacity of 5,500 seedlings per year. After this
component was terminated prematurely in 1992, 299 of these nurseries passed into
private management by retrenched workers. Seedling production was just 10% of the
SAR target.
24.   Based on the SAR assumptions of a survival rate of 60% and of a nominal hectare
equivalent of 2160 seedlings/ha, an effective cumulative area of 2,976 hectares is
estimated to have been established by 1994. Thereafter, the effective area is assumed to
decline in accordance with a depreciation allowance of 5% per annum, to allow for
replacement planting, written-off areas, etc.. Applied to the cumulative effective areas,
the calculation of benefit is based on a lower average annual productivity than peri-urban
plantations, proportionate to the lower stocking of 2160 versus 2500 trees per ha..
25.   The peak annual production assumed is 27,000 m3 (stacked), against an SAR
figure of 869,000 m3 (stacked) per year. Likewise, maximum annual pole production is
assumed to be 174,000 poles against 6,100,000 poles per year. Set in the context of
existing national production, the SAR estimates are considered to have been over
optimistic. But, also, the farm forestry component failed to reach its full potential owing
to the curtailment of the component.
26.   The beneficial influence of farm trees on agricultural crop productivity was
emphasised in the SAR. Although some agroforestry tree species were distributed, the
vast majority of seedlings produced under this component were of eucalyptus, from
which no crop benefit could be derived.



5
Cost Assumptions
Direct Component Costs
27.   Data on disbursements, in currencies of origin, by component and by year, were
collected in the field from the project accountant and responsible officers in Kampala. In
general, the period covered is 1988-94. But, in the case of IDA and EU disbursements,
and GOU counterpart contributions, figures for 1995 have been included because the
1995 disbursements were in respect of 1994 commitments; [tables B7-B8].
28.   The field data for IDA disbursements, and for GOU counterpart contributions
expressed in US dollars, was adjusted to reconcile the field data with the IDA
disbursement record obtained from Washington DC. A summary, [table B)], shows total
disbursements and government contributions by component, year and source.
29.   The disbursements for all six components have been converted from US dollars
into Ugandan shillings, using IMF period average exchange rates, corrected by WB
conversion factors for years 1988-93, [table BIO].
30.  In order to compare costs with benefits, it was necessary to adjust costs to
constant 1995 price levels. Because the external disbursement figures were denominated
in international currencies (US $, ECU and Nkr), the G-5MVU World Bank index was
used as the appropriate financial deflator. For government counterpart contributions, the
WB country GDP deflator for Uganda was used, [table Blll. A statement of project
costs, in historical and current 1995 prices, is given, [table B2].
Allocation of Institutional Strengthening Costs
31.   As mentioned above, the costs associated with the two institutional strengthening
components, (v) Training and (vi) Strengthening the Forestry Department have been
allocated to the benefit-yielding components, in proportion to their costs in Ugandan
shillings [table B3]. This was also done in the SAR, but with different proportions. The
basis of the SAR allocation was not clear to the ICR mission.
Post-project Costs
32.  In order to ensure that benefits should continue after project termination, it has
been assumed that post-project costs under each benefit-yielding component will be
funded, principally by GOU, at the same level as during the last financial year, 1994/95.
These costs are projected, in constant 1995 price levels, up till year 2023.
Economic Rates of Return
33.   The project demonstrates an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 9%,
provided that post-project benefits will be realised through a continuing commitment by
GOU to post-project costs. This rate is lower than the SAR estimate of 15%. The figures



6
for the ERR of individual components are substantially lower than the SAR estimates.
The lower figures attained reflect the generally depressed production levels achieved by
the project, [table B12].
34.   The peri-urban component (ERR: actual 5%; SAR 7%), although well
implemented, has featured a heavy commitment to civil works, which would require an
emphasis on higher value pole products, rather than fuelwood, to justify. Without the
burden of overheads, private farmer planting is likely to be profitable. A contributory
factor to the relatively low ERR was the slower build-up of production benefits than
envisage in the SAR.
35.   The farm forestry component suffered from the withdrawal of DANIDA's support.
The consequent failure to realise seedling production and planting activities, on the scale
envisaged in the SAR led, to a corresponding reduction in production benefits. No benefit
for improved agricultural crop productivity was imputed. Therefore, the ERR estimate of
6% for the component is much lower than the SAR figure of 20%. The SAR figure for the
ERR is considered to have been a high range estimate.
36.   The industrial softwood plantation rehabilitation component, for reasons outlined
previously, fell far short of its production targets. Consequently, the ERR is much less
than the SAR estimate, which was exceptionally high, partly owing to the pre-existence
of available softwood resources for harvesting, (actual 10%; SAR 51%).
37.   Likewise, the rehabilitation of naturalforest management component has been
associated with less production than envisaged. Again, the ERR is well below the SAR
estimate, (actual 10%; SAR 45%).
Sensitivity Analysis
38.   A sensitivity analysis (table 18) shows that the project ERR is sensitive to
increase in costs and decrease in benefits. Had the costs been 20% lower, or the benefits
20% higher, the ERR would approach the SAR estimate of 15%.
39.   Owing to its magnitude, and its cash flow profile, the rehabilitation of natural
forest management is the most influential component. Although the benefits of planting
may only be realised in the distant future, activities which yield benefits from the
exploitation of pre-existing resources can have a critical effect on the economic rate of
return.



APPENDIX B
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Appendix B: table 1:        TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS AND GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS (US dollars)
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS (USS)    19B8-95             1988      1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994      1995
by component and year (a)         1 - 8             1         2          3          4          5          6          7         8
Peri-urban Forestry               2,524,632              507,814    542,518    278.271    307,587    499,443    388,999
Farm Forestry                     2,410.514    30,000    439,339    653,710   1,227,186   60,279          0         0          0
Natural Forest Mgmt.             10,197,663        0    321,550   1,276,680  2,630,134   1,239,912   1,701,977   1,253,098   1,774,313
Softwood Plantations              2,412,925    15,524     56,000     63,067    129,578    428,504    446,685    953,171    320,395
Forest DeptRehab                 13,118,170   1,030,709  2,000,872   1,178,409   2.810,791   1,764,487   1,980,065   1,754,152    598,685
Training                          1,586,664    688,885    578,755    214,219     5.079    96,351      3,375         0          0
Total Disbursements (US $)       32,250,568   1,765,118   3,904,330  3,928,603  7,081,039  3,897,120  4,631,545  4,349,421   2,693,392
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS (US $)    1988-95        NFS/      DANIDA      CE          EU       UNDP  -   IDA          GOU
by component and source (a)       1 - 8     NORAD
Peri-urban Forestry               2,524,632   2,524,632
Farm Forestry                     2,410,514            2,260,514    150,000
Natural Forest Mgmt.             10,197,663                                 10,197,663
Softwood Plantations              2,412,925                                                        2,101,160    311,764
Forest DeptoRehab                13,118,170                                                       11,674,318   1,443,853
Training                          1,586,664                                             1,586,664
Total Disbursements (US $)       32,250,568   2,524,632  2,260,514    150,000  10,197,663  1,586,664  13,775,478   1,755,617



Appendix B: table 2:         TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS AND GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS                                 APPENDIX B
IN HISTORICAL AND CONSTANT 1995 PRICES (local currency)                         ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS (M Ush)   1988-96              1988        1989       1990       1991        1992       1993       1994        1995
unadjusted prices (a)               1 - 8             1          2           3          4           5          6          7           8
Peri-urban Forestry                    1,690                    86         173        153        296         600        381
Farm Forestry                          1,019          2         75         209        676          58          0          0           0
Nattial Forest Mgmt.                   8,024          0         55         408       1,449      1,191      2,045       1,227      1,648
Softwood Plantations
International (IDA)                 1,990          1          8          18         63         404        487        819         190
Domestir (GOU)                        291          0           1          2          8           8         50        115         107
Farest Dept.Rehab
Internationial (IDA)                7,750         54        299         342       1,370      1,663      2,159       1,507        355
Domestir (GOU)                        926          7         41          35        178          32        220        211         201
Training                                 307         41         98          68          3          93          4                     o0
Total DisbLrsements (M Ush)           21,997        106        662       1.256       3,901      3,744      5,566       4,260      2,502
|TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS (M Ush)   1988-95              1988       1989        1990       1991       1992        1993       1994        1995
in constant 1995 prices (b)          1 - 8             1          2          3           4          5          6           7          8
Peri-urban Forestry                    1,819          0        104         198        171        316         639        392          0
Farm Forestry                          1,146          2         90         238        754         62           0          0          0
Natural Forest Mgmt.                   8,508          0         66         465       1,616      1,274      2,177       1,262      1,648
Softwood Plantations
International (IDA)                 2,085          1          10         21         70        432         518        842         190
Domestic (GOU)                        360          1          5           6         21          14         66        138         107
|Sub-total                          2,445          2          16         27         92         446        585        980         298
Forest Dept.Rehab
International (IDA)                 8,324         65        360         390       1,528      1,779      2,298       1,550       355
Domestic (GOU)                      1,655         76        195         114        464         57         295        254  _    201
Sub-total                           9,980        142        555        504       1,992       1,835      2,593      1,803        556
Training                                352          49        118          78          3         99           4 _0                -0
Total Disbursements (M Ush)           24,249        195        948       1,510      4,628       4,032      5,997      4,438 _42.502
FINANCIAL DEFLATORS (c)                            1988       1989        1990       1991        1992       1993       1994        1995
_______________ __________ 11  2  .3  4      5          6           7          8
International (q)                                    1.2        1.2        1.1         1.1        1.1        1.1         1.0        1.0
Domestic (r)                                        10.3        4.8        3.3         2.6        1.8        1.3         1.2        1.0



Appendix B: table 3:        ALLOCATION OF FORESTRY DEPARTMENT                                               APPENDIX B
AND TRAINING COMPONENT COSTS                                                   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
TO BENEFIT-YIELDING COMPONENTS
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS (M Ush)   1988-95             1988        1989       1990       1991       1992        1993       1994       1995
institutional strengthening         1 - 8            1          2           3   _      4          5          6           7          8
Faoest DeptRehab                      9,980        142        555         504       1,992      1,835      2,593      1,803        556
Training                                352         49         118 _   _  78           3         99          4           0          0
Tota Training & FD Coss (M Ush)       10,332       191        673         582     11995        1934       2,597      1,803        556
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS (M Ush)   1988-95   Chargable   FD Cost
by cornponent (d)                   1 - a      Share      Share
Peri-urban Forestry                    1,819     13.1%       1,350
Farm Forestry                          1,146      8.2%        851
Natumal Forest Mgmt.                   8,508     61.1%       6,316
Sottwood Plantations                   2,445     17.6%       1,815
Farest DeptRehab                      9,980       0.0%
Training                                352       0.0%
Total Disbusements (M Ush)            24,249    100.0%      10,332



APPENDIX B
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Appendix B: table 4:         NFS (NORAD) DISBURSEMENTS
PERI-URBAN PLANTATIONS AND PILOT WOOD FARMS
NFS DISBURSEMENTS                  1988-95          1988       1989        1990       1991        1992     1993          1994       1995
1-8               1          2           3          4           5          6           7          8
Peri-urban Foestry (00-Nkr) (e)      16,906.2                3,506.2    3,396.0     1,804.0    1,911 .5    3,543.1     2,745.4
Peri-urban Forestry (Us $           2,524,632               507,814    542,518    278,271      307,587    499,443    388,999
Peri-urban Forestry (M Ush)             1,690                    86         173        153         296        600         381
Exchange           1988       1989        1990       1991        1992       1993        1994       1995
Rates (h)             1          2           3          4           5          6      _   7           8
Nkr/$         6.517       6.905      6.260       6.483      6.215       7.094      7.058
Ush/Nkr        9.207      24.564     51.057      84977    154.606   _169.408      138.772
Appendix B: table 5:         DANIDA/CARE DISBURSEMENTS
FARM FORESTRY
DANIDA/CARE DISBURSEMENTS    1988-95                1988       1989        1990       1991        1992       1993        1994       1995
1 - 8             1          2           3          4           5          6           7    _     8
DANIDA-Farm Fcrestry (US $) (t)     2,260,514               409,339    623,710   1,197,186      30,279
CARE-Farm Faestry (US $) (g)         150,000      30,000     30,000      30,000     30,000      30,000
Farm Forestry (US $)                2,410,514     30,000    439,339    653,710   1,227,186      60,279                   0            -00
TOTAL - Farm Forestry (M Ush)           1,019        1.8       74.5       208.9      676.1        57.9         0.0        0.0        0.0
Exchange           1988       1989        1990       1991        1992       1993        199i4      1995
Rates (h)  j1                    2           3          4           5          6           7          8
Ush/$ j        60.0       169.6      319,6       550.9      960.8   _1,2018        9794 -      928.8



APPENDIX B
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Appendix B: table 6:         EDF (EU) DISBURSEMENTS
REHABILITATION OF NATURAL FOREST MANAGEMENT
EU DISBURSEMENTS                  1988-95          1988       1989        1990       1991       1992  -     19 191994             1995
1-8               1          2          3           4          5          6           7          8
EDF funds (ecu) (e)                7,939,201                281,570    957,466   2,015,210    956,132   1,451,827   1,054,264   1.222,732
ISP funds (ecu) ()                   160,547                 10,112     45,425    105,011
Stabex (ecu)                         100,000                                                                                    100,000
Nalural Faest Mgmt. (ecu)          8,199,748          0    291,682   1,002,891   2,120,221    956,132   1,451,827   1,054,264   1,322,732
Natlwal Forest Mgmt. (US $)       10,197,663          0    321,550   1,276,680   2,630,134   1,239,912   1,701,977   1-,253,098   1,774,313
Natural Forest Mgmt. (M Ush)           8,024          0         55        408       1,449       1,191      2,045       1,227      1,648
Exchange          1988        1989       1990       1991        1992       1993       1994        1995
Rates (h)            1           2          3          4           5          6          7          8
$/ecu         1.184      1.102       1.273      1241        1297       1.172      1.189       1.341
Ush/ecu       71.034    186.967    406.851    683.391   1,245.965   1,408.870   1,164.115   1,245.892
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Appendix B: table 7:         IDA DISBURSEMENTS AND GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS
SOFTWOOD PLANTATIONS REHABILITATION
IDA/GOU DISBURSEMENTS             1988-95          1988       1989        1990       1991       1992        1993       1994       1995
1-8               1          2          3          4           5          6          7           8
IDA funds (US $)                   2,101,160     13,670     49,295      57,228    114,671    420,436    405,336    835.867    204,658
Gov.funds (US $)                     311,764      1,855      6,705       5,839     14,907      8,067      41,349    117,305    115,736
Softwood Plantations (US $)        2,412,925     15,524     56,000      63,067    129,578    428,504    446,685    953,171    320,395
Softwood Plantations (M Ush)          2281.6        0.9        9.5        20.2       71.4      411.7       536.8      933.5      297.6



Appendix B: table 8:        IDA DISBURSEMENTS AND GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTIONS
FOREST DEPARTMENT REHABILITATION
IDA/GOU DISBURSEMENTS             1988-95         1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993        1994       1995
1  _______________  1-8  1  2          3          4          5           6   _      7          8
IDAfunds (US $)                   11,674,318    907,564   1,761,290   1,069,302   2,487,429   1,731,268   1,796,772   1,538,273    382,421
Gov.funds (US $)                   1,443,853    123,145    239,583    109,108    323,362     33,220    183,293    215.879    216,264
Fcrest Dept.Fehab (US $)          13,118,170   1,030,709   2,000,872   1,178,409   2,810,791   1,764,487   1,980.065   1.754,;152    598,685
Fcrest Dept.Rehab. (M Ush)           8675.3       61.8      339.3      376.6    1,548.5    1,695.3    2,379.6    1,718.0       556.1
Exchange          1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Rates (h)            1          2          3          4          5          6          7          a
Ush/$          60.0      169.6      319.6      550.9      960.8    1,201.8      979.4      928.8
Appendix B: table 9:        UNDP DISBURSEMENTS
TRAINING
UNDP DISBURSEMENTS                1988-95    1987/88         1989       1990       1991       1992       1993        1994      1995
1-B              1          2          3          4           5          6          7    _ _  8
Training (US $) (k)                1,586,664    688,885    578,755    214,219     5,079      96,351      3.375 _  _
Training (M Sh)                       307.4       41.3       98.2       68.5        2.8        92.6        4.1   _    00         0.0
|Exchango          1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Rates (h)            1          2          3          4          5          6          7   __    8
Ush/$          60.0      169.6      319.6      550.9      960.8    1,201.8      979.4      9288
ug_lunds      12/10/95



Appendix B
Economic Analysis
Appendix B: table 10:    EXCHANGE RATES
DoUar Exchange Rates (n)        1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993    1994       1995
1        2         3         4         5         6         7        8
Uganda Shiling (Ush/$)       10.9      19.8      60.0     169.6    319.6    550.9    960.8   1,201 .8    979.4    928.8
Norwegian Kroner (Nkrt$)   7.3947    6.7375    6.5170    6.9045    6.2597    6.4829    6.2145    7.0941    7.0576    6.1881
ECU ($/ecu)                0.9812    1.1543    1.1839    1.1024    1.2730    1.2405    1.2968    1.1723    1.1886    1.3414
Ush Exchange Rates (p)          1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993     1994      1995
1        2         3         4         5         6         7        8
US dollar (Usht$)             10.9     19.8      60.0     169.6    319.6    550.9    960.8   1,201.8    979.4    928 8
Norwegian Kroner (UshtNkr)     1.5      2.9       9.2      24.6      51.1      85.0    154.6    169.4    138.8    150.1
ECU (Ushtecu)                 10.6     22.9      71.0    187.0    406.9    683.4   1,246.0   1,40B.9   1,164.1   1,245.9
Appendix B: table 11:    FINANCIAL DEFLATORS
Deflaors                                 1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993     1994      1995
0        1         2         3         4         5         6         7        8
Intemational (q)
1990=100                              88.84     95.31     94.65    100.00    102.23    106.64    107.14    110.85    114.02
1995=100                              77.92     83.59     83.01    87.70     89.66     93.53     93.97     97.22    100.00
Domestic (r)
1987=100                             100.00    289.90    625.86    917.12   1,152.12   1,683.12  2,243.49  2,500.00  3,000.00
1995=100                               3.33      9.66     20.86    30.57     38.40     56.10     74.78     83.33    100.00
file:UG_EXCH
12/10/95



ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Notes for tables 1 - 11:
(a) Summary of tables 4 to 9
(b) Adjusted to constant 1995 prices by financial deflatcrs
(c) Financial deflators from World Bank tables; see table 13
(d) Pro rate to component costs in Uganda shillings at 1995 prices
(e) Disbursements by component provided by project staff, Kampala. EU figure for 1994/95
adjusted for year-end 1994.
(f) Disbursements by component provided by Project Accountant, Kampala
(g) Confimed figures not available; $150,000 apportioned over 5 years.
(h) Converted at published IMF exchange rates; see table 12
(j) ISP figures converted to ecu using project exchange rates.
(k) Disbursements fom UNDP final project revision 17 June 1994.
(n) Source: International Financial Statistics, IMF (period averages; April figure for 1995).
Exchange rates for Uganda, 1986-93, are adjusted using World Bank conversion factors.
(p) Derived from cross-rates.
(q) Source: G-5 MVU index, World Bank Commodity Markets quarterly review, March 1994.
(r) Source: World Bank Country Tables, 1995.
(s) Annual figures adjusted to give total IDA disbursement of $13,775,478.
(t) Government figures apportioned between components pro rata to IDA disbursements
UG FUNDS
12/10/95



V4pefldkx H
(con"IUhc Analysi~
Appendix B. table 12:         ECONOMIC RAFES 0f  ERUURN - SUMMARTY TABLE
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Suulnmwy  (Aillion Uah) (a)         1968-95       1968a   1969    1960    1991         1992    1993       1994     1995  1996  1997           199681999         2000    200 1    20U12    200)3    2 00 4    2U05    2W66         2(601
_______________________     1~~-8a          1       2         3        4        5      _ 6     _ _          6         9      10       II        12       13       14         t.      It       I/        8        81       201
Pod- trban Plantations
Inaroen1gbI Benolb                     568                                  59       143       68      115       183     2 47      307      365      420      4 71      b2l       06b     0)12     b1s I'             /3.
FDOcosi shwar                       (1.350      (25)    (88)      (76)    (261)   (25,3)   (339)    (236)        (73)
Poe-po)c tcosts                       392, ________________                                                    (~3 )(I_14A        (4"__L 465        (465) ... L4        4-       45       4         4.      401     115         .l5
LNet Hjnfliai                       (2.993       (25)   (192)   (274)    (373)   (425)   (910)   L51)    (2621              f               I28 . 0   (4)        7       56       103      1411     1 161    230      261       305
farmn Forsty
l'ramemetl BElnelils                  986                          40       96       148      198      246      258      270      256       243      2 3%     220       200      1918     1158      1/i      I/li    101        153)
Dt actcoOsW                         (1.146        (2)    (90)    1236)    (164)      (62)
FD cost sharea                        (851      (16)    (55)       (46)    (164)    (159)   (2141    (149)       (46)
post-F  t cosis          -  -(68)  t__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _b)                         j    ( 8 -  (668  )    8) __   (8)      (68)     (6B)      101    68)   (     0)1I.f)  1.8)    (bIS)      061)
I N8   ___Benefits __(1.079                  (16) ~_  (I 45)   (246)    (823)     (73)      (16)      97      144      20Y2     168      175       1 63     152-    141 f       30      12~-0    III      102l      .11.      85
Nabaia Forest Mamagemnanl
(ruemartssl B61anIls                 9.504                        200      620    1.132    1.797    2,875    2.815    2.8/5    2.615    a.7 I      28/"IBi    2.9/B    2.8(5,   2 8/5,    .8:    ./' ,          B', 8 /   8/,  2 8/SI
Dkoccosts                           (8.508               (66)    (465)  (1.616)  (1.274)  (2.177)  (1,262)  (1.648)
FD cost share                       (6.316     (111)    (411)   (356)  (1.220)  (1.182)  (1,587)  (1.102)   (340)
Po l-pjcc  s                             _________________________                                              ..L,988    (1.9881. (1.98) _(1.988)  (1.988)   1988)  (1.988)  1 19661  II3811  I  911i  I13111 ,    I115
Hanotits               (5.19      (117)   It4T7)   (621)  (2.216)  (1.319)  (1,967)    510         887      887      887       887      887    -887       -887   _ 8 __              8Hal      88/      88/       887
S4itwood Phknbdm1sI
Inmemenhl BOnIUOs                    2.677                         69      330       457      558      748      496       496     496       496      490      496       496      496      503      ".(A      wbX      .1        5)
Oiroatco1sM                         (2.445        (2)    (16)     (21)      (92)    (448)    (565)    (980)   (298)
lODcost liasa                       (1.615      (34)   (I118)    (102)   (350)    (340)    (456)    (317)        (98)
Post- project_ ___ __ __ ___ __c_ __s__ __ __(395)                                                                        ..396L                       [395.15) -    t1    39b)   1395)     II))111                   ~    )
INot BoFwntg              ~(1.562      (36)   (134)      (40     (1)       32)      (83)   (54)        1I      -100      100       100- --100 --100 _    (51(   .1(8             106-      010      III      131      21.6)
All Componnts                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
Inaoemenbi Benelle                  13~ 736                       329    1.104    1.885    2.622    3.984    3,612    3.88 7   3,934    3,979    4.021    4.062    4 100    4 r3/    4 i/Sj   4 211   4 246,  4111:'    4 1JJ3
Okact costs                        (131916       (4)   (275)    (928)  (2.633)  (2.097)  (3.400)  (2.634)  (1.946)
F1'Ocost shwar                     (10. 332    (191)   (673)   (582)  (1.995)  (1,934)  (2.597)  (1. 803)   (556)
2~~(co6W   -   _____         -                             _________           '460   (2.916)  (?*96).A~~~~~~~~~~~~16~~  '2.9!~~L_ (2.69Ibi6L  )2.9fi0)  ( 96I6_1 9.1 9161 1) 916)k0) 9 uJ I  ~ /  123101  I  9!
-PI nom km95)    940                                  _  81L(.2L),1                                  80       91      1.0181    06~3   1.106        4      1 184    1.221    1 2031I 2W1    I i11(1   386          I /i I
R8II 2i)"6' 3n11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                                 271 .i
I0 NC M 'SI6 AI



200f      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013      2014      2015      2016      2017      2016      2019       2020      2021      2022      2023
21        22        23        24        28        28        27        28        29        30        31        32        33         34 ___35            36
804       837       868       897       925       952       977      1,001     1.024     1.046     1.061     1,0t6     1,105     1.123      1.139     1.155
(465)     (465)     (4651     J465) (   465)  (   465)     (465)      (465)     (465)     (465)     (465)     (4. 4   _L  14465)   (465)     (465)     (465
339       372       403       433       461       487       513       537       560       581       602       622        640       658       675       691
146       136       132       125       119       113       107       102        97        92        87        83         79       /S         71        68
(68)      (68)      (68)      (68)      (68)      (68)      (68)      (68)      (68)      (68)       (68)      (68)      (68       (6p)i(668 _     _  (68)
78        70        64        57        5 1       4 5       39        34        29        24         1 9       1 5       1 1        7         3 _       (0)
2.875    2t875      2,875     2.875     2.815     2.875     2,875     2875      2.875     2.875      2.815    2,8/5      2.815     2.815     2.815     2.85
(1,988)   (1.988)   (1,988)   (1.988)   (1.988)   (1,988)   (1.978)   (1,88a)   (1,88a)    (1.98)   (1.988)    (1.988)    (1,98 88 -.L9     (19886)    (1.988
887       887       887       887       887       887        a   887  88     7       887       887       887       887        881   8767               881
635       664       684       884       664       719       727       744       941      1.411     1.710     1.928     1.928     1.928      1,928     1.928
(395)     (395)     1395)     (395)     (3958    (395)      (395)     (395)     (395)     (395)     (395)     (395)      (395)     (395)          6.. _.29
240       289       289       280       288       323       332       349       546      1o016     1.314     1.533     1.533     1.533      1.533     1.533
4,460     4,514     4.53f     4.561     4,583     4.659     4,687     4,722     4.937     5,425     5,739     5.972     5,98/     6.001      6.014     6.u28
(2,916)   (2,916)   (2,916)   (Z.916)   (t916)   (2,916)   (2,916)   (2t916)   (2.916)   (t916)   (2,916)   (2916)    t2.9161  (09!6         ( ?916)   12,'b
1,544     1,599     1,623     1,646     1,668     1,743     1,771     1,806    2t022      2509      2,823     3057      3,071      3.085     3098      3.  1



LcaFxnmc Anodysa
ApponaIz B: ioi  13            PEII -UF13AN fOFESTRY COMPONENT
FIELD DATA COLLECTED
ESTAELISHMEWTAREA$ (heclire-B-9                   198    INS    1969    1990    1991    19V        1993    1994    19058   1g998    199     1996- 199    2000-2001fi   200           2003    mm0   2tb   2006   .2007
FWhet0e~~~~~lt,.nt   1     1~I -7                1       2        3       4       5                I      S        a      tO      11      12       1       14      lb      16i      I/     18      19        A)
- pbar6a                      I       1.513                     123     132    212       293     481    272      272     272      272     272     272     272    2721    212       2/2    ?/2      2/2     2/2      2f?
- cwuamvlke (a)                                                 117     238     426      883   1.106   1.309   1.500   1,685   1.850   2.025   2. 1a2   2.33I   2.4/3   2.(M U8   2/20   485    2 9/3   J.ItJ   J.1la/
Prh.bte FelinE
- p(.nbd                                758                              51      84      129     145     347     347     347      347    347    347       347     341    341    34/    34/    34/    34/            34/
- cumu6getw (a)               j48    126                                                242      388    879      975   1,256   1.522   1.7/68-2! L   2,46   2.463   2.6/0   2.866   3032  _- 32q_9                 35__5
SeedlingpRodrn.(0301f)                7.5631                    410     610    967   1.407   2.087   2.063   2.083   2.083   2.063   2.083   2.063   2,083   2.063   i.083 2.63          2.0 ,6~3  2-.-0863  -2.063    2.0631
A) INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Annuoo Halvw.st                      19B9         1987    1988    198      1990    1991    1992   199      1994    1996    1998    1997  1996    1999    2000 -2001    20022  4                      20- 20l          20
fEeeIOe~~~~~uatzuen1 ~~1 - 7                      1      2        3       4       5       a       7       8        9      10      II       12      13__14          lb      16       1/     l8       19      20
Fseenoa (sBdiced anSm3/tr)              1s                                       1.5    3a0      5 3     8.5    13a8    16 4     188    21(1    23 2    25 3    2/ 3    292 1      09    326    A142    33/        3/2
Priut. tainE
FVOO0od (StldiKnd (13 SM3/))  I                                                          086     18      3 0     4.8     8 5    12 2    15.?    19 0    22 2    25 2    28 1    308    33,4    338     382L    40 4
P0(a86 PMf tD185/jv)                    33~                                              3 9    10.1   19 4    29 4    54.3    780   (00)4   12186  142 1   161 3   1/971   1910   213 6   229 3   244 2    2 38
nonams (IAIUon UshT                            1980    1989    1990    1991    1999    1993    1994    1998    1906    1997    196w       99o20          2001    2002    2003   2004    2005i       7.
(lilItaflUsh)    I   ~~~1 - 71               1       2       3       4        5       6       7       a       9       10      Ii      12      13_   14 --      IS-1    16      I/      la       ..9 .  21
Fruwood                       1         1281                                       a       19      38      63     100     135     189    200       230     259     2816    311      336~    350~-  381-  402         4221
Poles                                   258                                       51     124      31      52      83      I11     139    185       189     213    235      256     2 Ir    296     314    331  --      1
lncrmentl Ela -e  sf            ______W                                          59    1143       so    115      189     27      307    268      42D   471    &           SV 56     1iI    --&55    698  --         Will
83) PRIOJECT COMPONENJT COST
Costs J Million Usah)                                     lo98 w18  1909   Tm)    19 91    1992    1993    1994    1996    1998    1997    IW8    1999    2000   2001    2002-   2003   2004    2005    2006          2007
______________________~~~                              ~ 171  2      3       4       5       6       7       8        a      10      Il1      12   _13  __14__  15            18      1/      18      -1       210
Dtact Costs (NFS/NCRAL) (a)            1 8191                    104     198     171     318     639     392
FD Co5t GaIwa I                        1.218             25       as      78    261      253     339     236       73
Component Costs (U  sh                                   25    189    274    432_-_689           9fl    m2       465    465    469    465    465    465    465__46                 4 -- 465    469    469           469
Notes                                                                           Assump One                                               Assum ian.   ____
(6) Effe09ve men 00(p aBled 0I % pe ye                                          Prices                                                   Yielod
(a) Cos[ ngura5 (mporlea fromnl(I UG_(UNDS                                        F uawood (StOdckd unit)   5.444  LJsrSm3                nomit al I lu whIivi(y      16 rn:VId/yr
MI SwareotFD strngthlning componntacaurasingto cot (a(o0ation                     Po0(a86                   700 U5W)phIe                  W6(tub( (IOFciTO8ion         %ofl 
(CB Post project costs sat at i99o nlfjis                                       Esta0lt5hMeflt assumpitons                                nflasooa (starLwuc unIlI)  125 Sm1ihdJyv
mortlity ractcr           25%                            P0les (no C)6SI I & 2)      80 110 A .k0o
nominal soclings/rLectarC2 2500              -          tODai s6n(jeininjj        131%                                              IL) ~t



2006      20        20tO     2011       2012     2013       2014      2015      20t6      2017      2018      2019      2020      2021      2022      2023
__21      22       23        24        25        26         27        28        29        30        31       32         33        34  _    35         36
272       272      272       272        212      272        212       272       272       272       212       272       212       212       272       2/2
3,286     3.380    3.470     3.554      3,635    3.712      3,785     3.854     3,919     3,982     4,041     4.968     4,151     4,202     4,20      4.296
347       347      347       34/        347       347       347       347       347       347       347       347       34/       347       34/       34/
3,709     3,8S3     3,990    4,120      4.244     4,361     4,473     4,579     4,680     4775      4,866     4.953     5,035     5.112     5.186     5.,21
2063     2,063     2.063    2.063      2.063     2,063     2,063     2.063     2.063    2Z063      2.063     2,063     2.063     2.063  _2.063       2,063
2008      2009      2010      2011      2012      2013      2014      2015      2016      2017      2018      2019      2020      2021      2022      2023
21        22        23        24        25        26        27        28        29        30        31        32        33        34        35         36
385       398       41.1      423       434       444       454       464       473       482       490       498       505       512        519       525
246 6     255 0     262.9     270 4     277 6     284 4     290 8     296.9     302.8     308 3     313 6     318 6     323 3     321.8      332 1     336 2
42.5      445       464       48.2      499       51.5      530       545       55.9      57.2      585       597       608       619       629        639
271.8     2846      2967      308.2     3192      329.6     3395      348.9     357.8     366.3     3744      3820      3893      3962      4028       4090
200B      2009     2010      20i        2012      2013      2014 2015           2016      2017      2018      2019      2020      2021      22023
21        22        23       24         25        26        27        28        29        30        31        32        33        34        35         36
441       459       476      492        50B      522        536       549       562       574       585       596       606       616       625       634
363       378      392       405        418      430        441       452       462       472       482       490       499       507       514       522
_04       637    _W                    925  95 2           977      1.001     1.024  1,U 6.W    1, 7        1---66    1,105        f1 1.13           115
2006      200Q  2010         2011       2012 20i 3         2014       2015      2016      201       201k   2019         2020 2t21           2022      2023
21        22       23        24        25        26        27         28        29        30        31        32        33        34        35       36
465       465      465       465        465      465       465        465       465       46_       465       465       46_       465       465       463)
466       46 4___= 48                          _ 485  _   4_          485 4484            465       48 4      465       485       486       465       485



9~~~~~~~
AIppe1dli B
Ecoaloonic Anabmm
A~PmndJZ B0 tUbsa 14:        FARMUfOIESTRY COMPONENT
.FIld Opuudens           i~~~~~~um-U  1967    IU     19      1996    I91    1962    1011   194        19        96     i        Q8     10       00     20D1    03~    20D33   2004          2     M3   6  2007
1-                  I      2        3       4       5       6        7       a       9      10      Il       12      13      14      15       la- I           16 --a      19  -20
- 51ate0                            24              1 1      8                        7
- ajmublvse                                         I1      17       17      17      24
Nuroolm
- basted0                          351             245      106
- o.mlubitjve                                      245     351      351     351     351    299      290
Ssscllgs ralssorxx*ysw)          10Q714           1,346   1.931   1.991   1,991   1.931    82       8an
Equtyslai Wm.
-aflflal 10l5tatfIIIIIIet (tuAr  2,7              374     5        536     538     536     22      22B
- wuiutivs Wim  (li) (a)                          374    OM   11.3113  1,961   2.294   2.4011  2,516   2.390  2.271   2.157   2.043   1.947   1.849   1.757   1.969   1.58661506- 1.431   1 360    1.292
A) INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Annmal Huvasts                   1     94    1987    196      19169    1900    1901    1992    1903    1994    1995    1906    197      10       99     200     23       02     2003   20D4    2005    2006    2037
122.3                    ~~~6 7    181l    24.9    33,3    41 3    413    45,3    42i0    409    388    ' 369     30    -33-331 6    300    28 5    211             268
E5.oviod0(SdBeaa  0SmwIr)         734                               4.0     9 6    14.9    200    2468    280o   212    258l    24b    233    2Z 1    21.0    200            190    I18(    I/ l      163      1S55
POOlS PM3 Poboo/y) 4)                                              25,9    61.6    9E56   127.9   156 6   19664   173 9   166 2    V 9    1491   1416   134 6   1218   1214   1 15 4    11Db   104 I          989
EleilEflI (MUuon Ush)            1i-M                  96     1969    1900    1991    1992    1903    1994    1905    1906    1907    1998    1999   2000   2031    M2032        033- 2034       2035    2062037
______________    ~~~~~1- 7                     1       2       3       4       5       a        7       a       9      10      I11      12   _13        14      15       16         _17  15      _19      20
Ftslaood                           390                               22      52      S1      109     138     142     148     141      133     127     12)     114      109     103      98      93      69       64
Paols                              322                               16      43      67      90      III     117     122      116     110     104      99      94      89     -85      81        11    73   --69
IncremanIa Benefits (IA Ush        739                               40      9S     146     INI    246       255    2)0      256     243     231    20        2109    ll9     I&       129     106     161      1~53
B) PROJECT OO)MPONB'NT COST
Costs (MUlleon Ush)             i            119617   196     1969    1900    1901    1932    1993    1994    1906   1IS6    1997    1906    1909    2030    2001    203-2  20133       2034  -2005i   203603
II _____________           1~~~~I-71             1      2       3        4       5       a       7        a      9       10      11      12      13      14      IS  - 16         1 7      la      19       20
Dkes0 Costs (DAMDANCARE) (e)      1.1461              2      90     236     754      62------
FD Cost slwg a )                   a961              16      55      46     184     159    214       149      46
Couponsnt Costs (Ucsh)            I.9       6 1j_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _---                                                                                               G                        fi
Notes                                                                      hscum    11                                               A su           ptouWs-
(a) Erractiveafes eeclaprocataitl6% per yew                                Prlc                                                      oldd
(to Cost ngLiss slmpwFtd tomi Ils UJGJ UNDS.                                 Euelaeood (stacked unit)   5.444  UstVSmn3              niolnin pYo1iclivity         la m3jlvs4i
M~ Slurs oIE0cWsn"honingnompDnhltaccrcdngtocostallocation                    Poles                      700 UslVpole                  annufllal06saaIon        916  of wofo
((I Post prolect costs set at 19g6 cgu'es.                                 Ectatilchrnnt assuipugmnc                                  kewood (5stidLed unIt)    108  SM3'l'aA
sesdllns/nurseyW         5.500                          l36Im (no Ies 1:15  & 2)     69  no Ala/yr
mortelMfy fodt            4451                          ED stren1  hsntrn          a 1. costs                                    LJ. Sf 3
nomrrill sooding5/Dectur  2.160        *12/10i9s



2C08     2C09      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018 2019          2020        2021    1022      2(3
.,W                                                                                                                 202      20 _2     202          3 1 2       IS3   43 
1,227    1,166     1.107     1.062      SW8      94s o     02        857       614        m       7 3                 663        M        5
20D8     2C09      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022      2023
21       22        23        24       25        26        27        28       29        30        31        32       33        34        35        36
245      232       221       21.0     19.9      189       t80       171       162      154       14.7      139       132      126       119       113
14.7     1a9       133       126      120       114       10.8      103       9.7       9.3      a8         84       1.9       75        12        6a
940      893       64.8      806      765       727       69t       656      623       592       563       535      508       48.2      458       435
20D8     2C09      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022      2023
21       22        23        24       25        26        27        28       29        30        31        32       33        34        35        36
80       76        72        69       65        62        59        56       53        50        48        45       43        41        39        37
66       62        59        56       54        51        48        46       44        41        39        37       36        34        32        301
141      13B       132       125      tt9       113       107       12        97        02        87       63        79        75        71        6
20D6     2C09      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019     2D20      2021      2022      2023
21       22        23        24       25        26        27        28       29        30        31        32       33        34        35        36
68       68        68        68       66        68        68        68       68        68        68        68       68        68        68        68
I         1        80        58       68        66        68        II       68        Il        68        C        68 GG oG                      68



9~~~~~~
Appedix U
LzuIwnmc An.I.s
Appulnx e: t Dtle 16:       NATURAL fOfIST MANAGEMENT
FIELD DATA COLLECTED
A) INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
HrwvmtYotuum   p1111.3)          I            11987    1989   i999    1990   1991    1992    1993    1994   199S         1996    i9t)    1998    1999- 2000    2001   2Q02   2003    2004    2='.  20D6        201
1_________________  I-7   .1  2       3       4       5       6       7_ 8            9_     10      I_      12      13      14 _     5      16      11      18      19       ?0
PMing1TtTnnuig (a)
seletivefailng 4)                 166.0                             50    155    2ti5    450    7Z0    7Z0    720    /20    120    120    120    /20    /20    /2(                  /u      /.lo    /,ItI    I.u
ImproveaUtJtrsDon (c)
TotaIVolum a m23)                 166.0                             5.0   tSS    2ft5    45o    720    720 720             720  7Z0     70  -20    720    120    120    120    720    120                   /20
H narlUs ailHon Ush)             1 -P                 1988    19B9    1990   1991    1992    1903    1994     1995    1906    1997    1998     1999   2000   201   20()2    20UJ   2tlO4   2tlOS   20DG        2001
1-7                   1      2        3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10      11      12      13      14      15      16      If      id      19       20
Wood Hseg                         6.629                             20D    620   1.137   1,797   2.875   2.755   2,875 2,875 2,875    2.8i5    2.875    2.8i5    2.8i5    2./       8/    2 al./   2 8N,   2 8/5
Crcoart Conversion (a) 
Inasmentbl Bmnefits (M Ust       6,el                              2t      GM   1,137   1,797   2,575   2,1175                            255    22e75   2,875   2,875  _815   2,815   2.8/5  ?,81S    ?,875
R) PROJECT OMPONIT COST
costs ( MIllon Liih,)            16i   4      1S8i   t9S9    1989   i990   t991    1S9 jS             199947 1988    1w  I  90 q3 14 995   199H    1997    1908199    2Q  2(o?Q    2(13    2(04    2,   2      2tn
_1-7                 1       2       3       4       o       a       7       8       9      10      11      12      13      14      15      16      I/      18      Ii)    21)
ODets Costs (EU) (a)              6.8t0                      66     465   1,616   1.274   2,177   1.262   1,648
FD Cost Share j)                  5.976             117    411      356   1.220   1.182   1.507   1.102    340
Post- project costs lo)                                                                                            1,98S   1,9BS   _ 1988   1,988   198B8   1,988   1.988  I_W6     198b     luhei   IW8    1I
Component Costs PA Ush)         12.e3              117    477    62t  2.116   2.456   3.764   2.365   t.98t   1.96M  11.9b    1.988   1,988   t.9    1.98    1,988   1,9B9   1, I 8 186   1,988    1.9b
Notes                                                                                            A[ unspUons
(a) No reftimng or tdnninog  s tCaried Out es a reFsult ottne poprC                                Prices
tFelanng volumes ate r marementa Wlh ithraren  to a bass igLire ot 4B,97 m3/yar,                     Wood           39932  UsNdm3
calculatedas theaverage ofprocctlon In years t987- I1'9; thus, iremenarl                          Cnarcoal               UsO/mI
prdubion so98ft in 9690,. mnd issane dtocontiue Il99W94  1b Aa taproed.                          Db_n.   61.1%  costs                                                                                   uD Nl l
(c) No Improvedsatvan utstanonas promoteoby meropdo at nenthe see   on                                                                                                                                      (21(0,1)t
produdclon of clscoutgang p2Isaf9 iio not esomtlld
(cq No har        coaoodctwool rodcton arriled out spfau taom resear ch PorPs s).



2ao8     2009      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019      2020     2021      2022      2023
21       22        23        24       25        26        27        28       29        30        31        32        33       34        35        36
720      720       120       720      720       720       720       720      720       720       720       720       120      720       720       12U
720      720       720       72.0     7                   7 7272           0      7207            70.720  _20         20      720    _720         !?
2008     2009      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019      2020     2021      2022      2023
21       22        23        24       25        26        27        28       29        30        31        32        33       34        35        30
2.975    2.875     2,875     2.875    2,875     2.875     2.875     2.875    2.875     2.875     2.875     2.875     2,s75    2,875     2.875     2.815
2t175    2.075     2.WS      2.875    2.W5      2.175     2.a75     2.575    2,175     2,175     2,575     2.575    2,175    2.875      2.875     2.sis
2008     2009      2010      2011     2012      2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019     2(20      2021      2022      2023
21       22        23        24       25        26        27        28       29        30        31        32       33        34        35        36
1.,88    1,988     1.988     1,988    1.98       .988     1.988     1.988    1.988     1.988     1,988               1.988    I.908     1.988     1.988
1M       It,       tueM      I,S       i,       ti.       tml         m        . 1.988           tm        tos I.Ss9 1.9m      ,.Sm     ,9m0     1,-m



Appendix 
Ecrnol8c AnaIa
Appanix 0. 16Ib  6:         SOFIWOOC PLANTATION COMPONJENT
FIELD DATA COLLECTED
Hurv"  AM"    e1- )              I8-94        1967    19      1A      MO    1991    1092   1993    1994    195   1908    1997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003    2004    2005   2006                2C07
. .                           1- 7                  1       a       3       4       5       6       7       a       9       10      11      12      13      14      IS      16 _   17       18      19       20
Thnnig (a)                                                                                                                                                                    13      IS      19      66      178
CIwbul (b)                          344                               14     52      72      88      Ila    118      Ila    118    118       118 t 18        118     118     d11     118     118    118       118
Sahpgm Felling (c)                  526                              21      80     110    135       181
TlatalAm  (he)                     170                               35     132    112    223    299    tIa         Ila    1111               8     11-i  8o - -Ii-  118    131     133    131    184       296
A) INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
tHt  %A = pOor)                -18-04         1987    1988    1989    1900    1091    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1399   2000    2001   2002    2003    2004   200S    2006         2007
I - 7                 1       2       3       4       o       6       7       8       9      10      II      12      13      14       iS      16      It  _6          19       20
Tlinnog                                                                                                                                                                      0 3     0 3     0 4      13      3 6
Ci11cU                             51.6                              2 1     7.8    10.8    132     17.7    17.7    17 7    17.7    17 7    17 7    17 7    Il/ I7/    itl          I//    1/ I    I/ I      III
Saage Feaing                       26.3                              1.1    4.0      5.5    67      90
Plrotton
ImprovedUUdisaton                   7.8                             03       1.2     16      20      27      18      l8      1 a             18 1a 1818       I a      3      1 a     I8      18      19      2 1
TotelVlumne pODlm3)                85,7                             3.5   13.0   17.9    21.9   29.4    195    195    19.5    195_195              19.       5    195    19        198    199    209        234
0 6en4  (WispO Usll)             100-94               190     1900    1900    1901    1992    1993    1094    1905    1998    1997   1998    19992000    2Q01   2002    2003   2004   2005   2006               2007
(w4lntU96wMS  ifeI 1-7                                  1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10    I11        12     13       14      Is      16      if     lb       IS       24
WoodHamesting                     2,181                              89     330     457    558      748     496    496    496    496    496          496     49      4 1      0      50      54)6    532      595
Charcoal ConvwElon (d)
IIEi _n0W     _ mmnmm (N  1M4     2.181                              9      330    457    558    74t    496    496    496    496    496    496    496    496                503    504 _506    532           595
B) PROJECT COMPONENT COST
Coe( MUn lm)                     111,188-94  1987    1988   1989    1990    1991    1992   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000  2001  2002    2003   2004    20052
f  m       1a  Idcd               1 - 7                  1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10      it      12      13      14      15  _16  -_ --  r_                 _     241
Dir. co001 (IAOV) (a)             2,147               2      16      27      92    446    585    980        298
FCD -Om5"r  (e).m                  1.717             34     118     102    350    340    456    317          98
Post-p pr 01 (cosb)          _                                                                                      395     395     395     395     395     395    395       395    Ji9      195    335      .495
CoMusMnht Co_  ( tl U*            3,86t4             36     134     129    442    785   1,041   1,297       395    395    395    396    396    395    3                     385    395    3-9.    395        393
Note.
(a) No prokucive VW -tlg mas carrIed 04A as a resul of the frojacl; n9owevr. tinnIng               PIcgC
trom n_-androplkntigassumed toyield50 m3/ha aI15 yearm                                            Wood           25.449 Ubfi/m3
(4 Clearfo areas we inroemernik wh fraefrence to ts.e lsria or 60 rnew! Iom                         CfrWcotl               JbSiuJnl
1,86,e7 to 19588/; trh^ IICncr6i prodiction sarrt In 1989*90. and Is asurned
tD con9nue at 19304 leels star [he procL Jc                                                     Yields
(c) No anrnal b6skdown availae for sahage area ov 580 hn; Irues allocated by year                    Thtning            20 rn3/ha
in proporUon to deeroll areas. Sehage Ilang Is a tempcrary IrrIwventlon, villIch Is               Ciawfro           150 rmElir
not0 asaird to contnm0 alte Om project                                                            SeLmge lolifig    , 50 rn3/1Ia
(d No sorIwooa charcoal produdcon carled our (apen tonm researcn pLrposes).                         Improved uwlsal   10%
(a) Cost igure. imported om fileUG FUNDS                                                           FD     o_engih n   176%  coits
Q) Sniare or F sfr enftenIng component acomringl to cosI alocatlion.
(g) Post prolec cosb Sol at 1995 hguea                                                                                                                                                                       I.', 1019
5) SW .1



2008     2009      2010     2011      2012      2013     2014      ,0l15     2016     2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022     20
21       22        23       24        25        26       27        28        29       30        31       32        33 ___  34          35       38
249      301       301      301       301       301      301       301       301      301       301       301      301       301       301      301
118      118       118      118       118       131      133       137      184       296       367      419       419       419      419       419
367      419      419       419       419       432      434       438      485       597      6S         720   -720         720       720  _ 720
2008     2009      2010     2011      2012      2013     2014      2015      2016     2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022     2023
21       22        23       24        25        26       27        28        29       30        31        32       33        34        35       36
5.0      60        6.0      60        6.0       6.0      6.0       6.0       6.0       60       60        6.0       60       60        60       60
17.7     177       17.7     17.7      17.7     19.7      20.0      206      27.6      444       55.1     62.9      62.9      629      629       629
2.3      2.4      2.4       2.4       24        26       2.6       27        3.4      5.0       6.1       69       69        69         69      69
24.9     26.1      26.1     26.1      26.1      28.2     28.6      29.2      37.0     55.5      67.2      75.6      758      75.8      /5.6     758 
2006     2009      2010     2011      2012      2013     2014      2015      2016     2017      2018      2019      202      202       2022   - 2023
21       22        23       24        25        28       27        28        29       30        31        32        33       34        35 _  _  36
635      664       664      664       664       719      727       744       941     1.411    1.710      1.928    1.928     1,928     1,928    1928
635      664       664      664       664       719      727       744       941     1.411     1.710    1.926     1.92C    1M92B     1.928     1.928
2008     2009     2010      2011      2012     2013      2014      2015     2016      2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022     2023
2 1      22        23       24        25       26        27        28        29       30        3 1       32       33        34        35       36
395      395       395      395       395       395      395       395       395      395       395       395      395       395       395      395
395      31|5     3B5       395       395       395 -3S5           395         5      395       395       3395               395       395      395



Appendix B
.UGANDA                                                          Economic Analysis
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table 17: Stumpage prices
SOFTWOOD STUMPAGE VALUES   US Sim3    USh/m3
Sawrnwood export price (a)              234 i
- less transport (b) (c)               (10)   208,4991
- less transport and handling (d)          I   (15.700)
Value ex- mill                                  192.799
- less producion costs (e)      !              (115,679)1
,Roundwood stLmnpage value (f)                   25,449
HARDWOOD STUMPAGE VALUESI US$/m3 I USh/m3
i Sawnwood export price (a)             432
less transport (g) (c)               (31)   372,764
less transport (h)                            (40,000)
Value ex-mill                                  332,764
- less production costs (e)                   (199,658)
Roundwood st.umpage value (i)  I_39,932
FUELWOOD VALUES                1 Kerosene  Fuetwood
Ush Iftre  Ush /S m3
Kerosene price tD                       7501
equivalent to: t)                                23,625
Less (r)
- markeUng costs                                 (1,181)
- transport (10 km)                            (1 5.000
- less harvesting                                (2,000
Firewood stumpage value         T                 5,444
|POLE VALUES                                I Ush /pole
[Rural market prIce                                 800
Less (m1
- less harvestng                                  (100)
Pole stumpage value                         ____ _700
Assumpttons (c)
Rar of Exchange (1996)                  929   Ush / S
(a) average world price 1992 (FAO Foresiry Paper 126). adlusted by World Bank timber
prce Index (1995-163.4:1992-110.8).
(b) transport Kabale-Kigall; adjusted 1986 rate. using WE G-6 MVU Index.
(c) Converted at 1996 exchange rate: table (10)
(d) transport sawmill-Kabale and export handllng; adjusted 1 966 rate, using WS G-6
MVU index.
(e) 60% of ex-mill value; In-country estimate. J.Carvalho, 1996.
(M based on 30% conversion factor for hardwoods, and Improved factor of 33% for
softwoods. These are lower Dian SAR flgLre (40%). The softwood conversion rate Is
assumed to be ernhanced (by 10%) over hardwoods, as a project benent
(g) transport Kampala-Mombassa; adjusted 1966 rate. using WB G-6 MWU Index.
(h) transport sawmIll-Kampala; In-country estimate; J.Carvalho, 1996.
(D market price: Kampala. 1996.
tk) calortflc equhvalents: fuelwood = 3.500 kcalVsolid kg; kerosene-8,000 kcaVlltre.
converslon efflciencles: flrewood=B%; kerosene=30%.
wood densIty: 0.46 tonnes/m3: 0.60 m3/Sm3 stacked.
overall factor=32 litres kerosene/stacked m3.
(1) markethig costs at 5%.: bransport costs 16,000 Ush/Sm3; harvesUng 2.000 Ush/M3.
(m)pole harvestng cost= Ush 1 00/pole.
UG 8TUW
12f10/95



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ta.o I ,j.  UGANDA
FORE1T RRHABILITATION PkOJECT
All Coaponelnro
Millioln Uah
1       2       3       4        S       6       7       8        9      10      11      12       13      14      Ib       6 lb    17      la      1        u
Benefits
Incremental Benefits          -       -    329   1105    l885   2621    3984    3812    3888    3934    1979   4022    4062    4101   4137    4118   -121i   42-bi  4' lii            49
Costs
Direct Coste                  4    276      928   2633   2098   3401    2634    1946            -        -
PD cost share               192     672     582    1995   1934   2596    1804         557       -        -
Post-project costs            -       -        -       -       -       -        -    460   2916    2916    2916    2916    2916    291o    2916   2916b   Jit    2vke 2b1t   2SIt
Total Costs                 196     948    1510   4628    4032    5997    4438   2963    2916   2916    2916    2916    2916    2916   2916    29kib   211.  !29k              2'lI   2iIt
Hot Benefits               -196    -948  -1181   -3523   -2147  -3376    -454         849     972    1018    1061   1lu6    1146    118S    1221    120a    129'   IlIu    I1          14!o
10/12/1995 14:02



_~~~ I                      [9
*         4,
4'  I
*.   _W                           *
a   ma.   I                      '
*   ;;                  a   * s 
a  w~                   a    
* U    --                 S   
'a _     e                a 
*. r      a              -          a'
'a   o_w                  a        ''                  '
. ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   .
* N ws *
*  MW                 aV..
'     MW                a '        '                  * ' U 
. '      ,
. *    SW               S     
am''~   ~~~~ .4    t              
* N    MN                 U  ''B 
._*     ma               A         C
'N    _J _              U'~
'a    to   .4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
*      NI, U
'Uo   - -                 .       .
* -    #J               U'         e
-    99                  .
'a     --       C                   -    
* m e ' - '
C    tt                C 
-    -t _       
V    4",'.             _
:   q *                        ft



ProesEnt Values of Net 01reamo at a Discount RAtO ot 12.0%
BTOF    UP 10%      UP 20%      UP 50%  DOWN 10%  UOWN 20%  DOWN Su4
CTOT    -2498.3     -460.0      1578.2    7692.9   -4536          6574.7   12689.4
UP 101    -4786.3   -2748.1       -709.9    5404.6       6824.5   -6862.8  -14977.4
UP 20%    -7074.4   -5036.1   -2997.9         3116 a   -9112.6  -11150.8    17265.S
UP 50%  -13938.5  -11900.3    -9862.1   -3747.4  -15976 7   18015.0  -24129.6
DOWN 103      -210.2     1828.0    3866.2    9980 9Y  -2248 4    -4286.7   10401.3
DOWN 20%    2077.8       4116.1    6154.3   12269.0           39.6    -1998.6   -8113.3
DOWN 50%      8942.0   10980.2   13018.5   19133.1    6903.8           4865 5    1249.1
BTOT      LAO I       LAG 2      LAG 3
CrTO    -2498.3   -4682.1    -6631.9   -8372.8
UP 10%    4786.3   -6970.1    -8920 0  -10660.9
UP 20%    -7074.4   -9258.2  -11208.0  -12948.9
UP 50%  -13938.6  -16122.3  -l1072.2  -19813.1
DOWN 10%      -210.2   -2394.0   -4343.9   -6084.8
DOWN 20%     2077.8      -106.0   -2055.8   -3796.7
DOWN 50%    8942.0    6758.2         4808.4     1067.4
LAO 1           -   -2230.6   -4180.4   -5921.3
LAG 2           -          -   -1991.6   -3732.5
LAG 3           -          -           -   -1778.2
IiLoteal Retes of Retuirns of Net :3t reams
......   -  .........     ...,,, = = ._.=.=
BTO?    UP 10%    UP 20%        UP 50%  IX)WN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
CTOT      8.606      11.379     14.128      22.546      5.728       2.689     27.478
UP 10%      5.997       8.606     11.129      18.672       3.191     -0.046        NONE
UP 20%      3.680       6.220      8.606      15.507       0.826     -2.709        NONE
UP 50%     -2.709       0.192       2.589      8.606      -6.755    -14.861        NONE
DOWN 10%      11.68S     14.740      17.823     27.400       8.606       5.396    -11.180
DOWN 20%      16.507     16.991      22.546     33.631      12.067       8.606      5.022
DOWN 50%      37.439     43.612      49.895     68.707      31.370     25.443       8.606
BTOT      LAG I       LAG 2      LJAG 3
CTOT      9.606      6.794       5.621       4.793
UP 10%      5.997       4.757      3.939       3.358
UP 20%      3.680       2.914      2.407       2.049
UP 50%    -2.709       -2.042     -1.64a      -1.384
DOWN 10%      11.685      9.117       7.510      6.194
DOWN 20%    15.507       11.660       9.691      0.219
DOWN 50%    37.439       25.323      19.627     16.195
LAG I           -      8.606      6.794       5.621
LAO 2           -          -      8.606       6.794
LAO 3           -          -           -       .606



SWItching Values at 12.0%
Appraisal      Switching       Percenitnye
Stream               Value          Value           Change
BTOT                  20352           22661              12%
CTOT                  22061           20162             -11%
Net Present Value at OCC   12.0% , -2496.3
Internal Rete of Return - .6%
Coupon Equivalent Rate ot Return - 10.6%






IBRD 20050
3 2-                          33
UGANDA                                                                                                            /<2'
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                           s   u  D  A   N                              /   '2-
A      Prolec? Per,-Urbon Woodlor Areas        rMOYO-                                                  5                      < 6'-
*      Evisting Operatioool Sowm.lls                                                                                                        '     bonJ
Tropico High Foresis
Sofi,ood Plontoionis                  .M                                                                      KOT/GO
Molo, Roods                         I                                                                    u/m
Rorimoods           <                       PUA               "'                -K TUM                                 -3
3.           Rivers                                            c
     D,striCt CapItCls
-   Contours n meters                                                                            ERA
-    Disrr,c  Bocedories                 t  .1           ,       C
Intern-tional boEndar,es                                                                                -                                         MOR
LENDUi                                                                                                                        -j8^ > & n ) Net: R        
o     25    50    75   100 KRIL.OETERS    .       N    /                    A                            NeA    / =NoAMOSIMO                     < 1ORO TO
-2-     20      40      rro MMLES                                       j                APA      C Advkk A                                                             z
WAMPANGA                               -~        -~ SONGO  APAC
X ( <~~~~~~~oLtnql                                                      'Nr>\. $
-2-                                                                       'Ad.k                     5ORorl:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TROO.'
,             ABRO                            MUBE A<;> NDE  ...nv                 ird,, \                 >        cilo-t         1
SF        4-                                                                            S nt .e AD: I t ti N ) )WE  RO               3A3.
~~yo    KONDA          ~          - -.                                      SDA
MAKASA                       7~~~KAUZ
Z   ((  W    A   P    A R   O 7 E  S   E     R r/ 
/       4E8uo  F             _.ERR,'             '                                                                                                        -
~/RUKUNIR/ ,KAEAEA -           -RAK'                              h!R KAMULI
o- ~     ~     ~~ }WOH                              C-.g;        ' ' -                                                 - X- M<   A g                               10T  
/Scwcta | ~~~~~~~~~~.~  t5)MBRARA/~                                                         I                     ZAIRE    |cN:v  KENCOA                   / 
(J   MARARAG j ,SHEfI l\ .   / r   E   CGAR                                                          k 1 
R UI./     :        R          I|                                                              RWANOA1'.IA' V  GN.
'KnABAZ f E            A                                                                                                      B0RUNDIRM  -BENDE
X'A B^BLE<l;/ \T              A       N       Z       A       N      I     A                                5                       _
.    g:~  9~  RWANDA  \   3,1-32-                                                     3,3-                         (i;A>BT H                         9B
MBARARA ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FERAY15









IMAG-ING
Report No:       15382
Type: ICR



