Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6427-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 27, 1987
Eastern & Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This documat has a rdricded dlslbxbon and may be used by recipients only In the pedoman  of I
their officl dtes. 1t conten  may no otherwise be disclosed wthout World DnBk authoiaon



CURRENCY EQUJVALENTS
Exchange Rate: U Sh 1,400 - US$1 (At Appraisal - June 1986)
U Sh 6,000 = US$1 (At Negotiations - May 1987)1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System.)
Fuelwood conversion factors:
1 ton of fuelwood = 1.43 m3 (solid) of fuelwood
1 stere (stacked m3) of fuelwood = 0.6 m3 (solid) of fuelwood
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACFO    Assistant Chief Forest Officer
ARDC    Agroforestry Research and Demonstration Center
CFO     Chief Forest Officer
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA  Danish International Development Agency
DCFO    Deputy Chief Forest Officer
DFO     District Forest Officer
ED      Energy Department
EEC     European Economic Community
ESMAP   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FD      Forestry Department
FO      Forest Officer
GOU     Government of Ulanda
ICO     International Coffee Agreement
ILO     International Labour Organization
IWEFPP  Integrated Wood Energy Farming Pilot Project
KfW     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (W. Germany)
MAF     Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MPED    Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
NFC     Nyabyeya Forest College
NGO     Non-Government Organization
ODA     Overseas Develepment Administration (UK)
Oxfam   Oxford Committee for Famine Relief
PF-WP   Project File - Working Paper
PIT     Project Implementation Team
SAWP    Staff Appraisal Working Paper
SDA     Special District Administration
SRO     Senior Research Officer
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNEP    United Nations Energy Program
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
VSO     Voluntary Service Overseas
WFP     World Food Program
WICO    Wood Industries Corporation
WPA    VWorking Plan Areas
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ Following currency reform announced in May 1987, 100 units of
local currency (old U Sh) as expressed in the SAR are equivalent
to I unit of local currency (New U Sh).



FOR OFFIC0L USE ONLY
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
P4ge No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                           l-il
CHAPTER I: COUNTRY AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Geography and Econoty ...................,... ... 0.,....   1
B.  Agricultural Sector .*****.**@*    *****o.*****.e            3
C.  Forestry Subsector ..........................,.......       3
D.  Forestry and Energy Institutions ...................e   6
E. Bank and Other Donor Involvement in the Sector
and Subsector  *9.*.....eeee......o...*..,ooee.oe   9
F.  Project Origin and Justification ........,.........0....  10
CWAPTER II: THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives *..........,.,....**...*.....  11
B. General Descriptlon                           oe.,           11
C.  Detailed Description **e.... ¢e. *o e. o** e*o  13
D.  Technical Assistance ................      ..,...,.,.,  18
E, Envirormental Impact           ,.                            18
CHAPTER III: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A, Cost Estimates                        ,,                     20
B.  Financing *   ...................... .  20
C.  Procuremenit           ,,                                   22
D.  Status of Project Preparation ..........................  23
E.  Disburseements .............. .         ,.,                 24
F.  Accounts antd Audit  . ..... ..o.........s ,  , 25
CHAPTER IV:  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................  26
CHAPTER V: PP.ODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES
A* Production .................................,.,. 29
B.  Markets .nd Prices ...                                      30
CHAPTER VI:  FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS                                  31
CHAPTER VII:   ENEFITS. RATE OF RETURN AND RISKS ............        33
CHAPTER VIII:  AGREEMELITS REACHED                                   35
This report Is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Uganda in
July, 1986. The mission members included M. Bromhead, R.D.H. Rove,
C. Cornelius (IDA); I. McLean, P. Ryan (IDA Consultants); G. Foley and
D. Earl (EEC Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution actd may be used by recipients only in fth peirfotmance|
of their offcial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without W,,.l Bank authofttion.I



List of Tables
Table 3.01 Project Costs
Table 3.02 Financing of Project Costs
Table 3.03 Proposed Procurement Methods
List of Annexes
Annex 1 Disbursement Profile
Annex 2  Table 1   PPF Request:  Cost Table
Tablr 2   Exchange Rate and Inflation Assumptions
Annex 3  Project Costs:
Table 1   Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 2   Project Components by Year (Base Costs)
Table 3   Project Components by Year (including Contingencies)
Table 4   Financing Plan
Table 101 Energy Farming
Table 201 Farm Forestry:  NGO Activities
Table 202 Farm Forestry:  FD Takeover Operation
Table 203 Farm Forestry:  Agroforestry Research and
Demonstration Centers
Table 301 Natural Forest Management:  Boundaries - High Forest
Table 302 Natural Forest Management:  Savannah Demarcation
Table 303 Natural Forest Management:  Enrichment and Encroachment
Planting
Table 304 Natural Forest Management:  Charcoal
Table 305 Logging Management and Revenue Collection
Table 306 Natural Forest Management: Natural Forest Conservation
Table 307 Niatural Forest Management:  Forest Inventory
Table 401 Industrial Softwood Plantation Rehabilitation
Table 501 Forest Department Rehabilitation: Logistical Support
Table 502 Forest Department Rehabilitation: Planning and
Management
Table 503 Research: Seed Collection and Distribution
Table 504 Research: Silviculture and Agroforestry
Table 601 Training: Rehabilitation of Nyabyeya Forest College
Table 602 Training: Wood Utilization: Nakawa
Annex 4  Cost-Benefit Analysis
Table 1   Incremental Benefits from Project:  Production and Value
Table 2   Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Table 3   Economic Rate of Return Summary
Annex 5  Cash Flows and Financial Return
Table 1   Incremental Government Revenues from Project
Table 2 Incremental Government Cash Flow
Table 3   One Hectare Model Private Fuelwood Planting



Annex 6  Implementation Targets
Table 1   Training Program
Table 2   Summary of Physical Targets
Table 3   Draft Staffing Plan
Chart 1   Implementation Chart
Annex 7  Technical Assistance
Table 1   Summary of Techninal Assistance Provisions
A   TOR Project Coordinator
B   TOR Senior Planning Officer
C   TOR Financial Controller
D   TOR Procurement Manager
E   TOR Building Supervisor
F   TOR Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
G   TOR CARE Project Manager
H   TOR CARE Assistant Project Manager
I   TOR CARE Environmental Monitor
J   TOR Agroforestry Training Officer
K   TOR Sociologist
L   TOR Timber Miarketing Survey
M   TOR Forest inventory
N   TOR Forest T,aining Specialist
O   TOR Plantation Management Specialist
P   TOR Wood Utilization Training
Q   TOR Silvicu-ltural Research Specialist
R   TOR Charcoal Management Specialist
S   TOR National Biomass Inventory Consultant
Annex 8  Forestry Department Organization Chart
Annex 9 Properties and Uses of Tree Species for Farm Forestry Activities
Annex 10 Draft Revised Forest Policy Statement (1986)
Annex 11 Materials Available in Project File
IBRD Map No. 20050



UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Government of Uganda
Amount:         US$13.0 million
Terms:          IDA Terms
Project        Project objectives are:  (i) to increase the production of
Description:   woodfuels and poles for the urban population through
encouraging private wood farming in pert-urban areas and
managed production of charcoal in natural forests; (ii) to
increase the production of wood products for the rural
population and conserve soil fertility through encouraging
farmers to plant multi-purpose tree species; (iii) to manage
and conserve Uganda's natural forests for sustained timber
and charcoal production by the private sector, for revenue
collection from logging, for environmental protection and
for nature conservation; (iv) to increase the productivity
of the softwood plantations for sustained timber production
by the p-ivate sector; (v) to provide logistical and
institutional support to the Forestry Department for
achievement of the above objectives and to create the
information and management base for long term planning,
development and conservation of Uganda's forest resources.
Project components are: (i) Peri-urban plantations and
pilot wood farms: direct establishment of 900 ha of
eucalyptus plantations for demonstration purposes; provision
of seedlings for establishment by private farmers of 1,000
ha for production of fuelwood and poles on a pilot basis;
(ii) Farm forestry: establishment of nurseries in rural
areas for production of 27 million seedlings annually by
year 6 of multi-purpose species to be planted by farmers and
non-government agencies; extension, farmer training and
agroforestry demonstration; (iii) Natural forest management
rehabilitation: redemarcation of 1,350 1'ms of forest
boundaries, enicroachment and enrichment planting of 26,000
ha, extension for improved charcoal production, improved
logging managment and revenue collection, management and
biomass inventory, including working plans for selected
natural high forest and plantation areas, expansion of
nature conservation areas from 5% to 20% of natural forest
area and managed as such, and protected areas with only
limited logging to cover an additional 30%; (iv) Softwood
plantation rehabilitation: rehabilitation of 13,900 ha of
softwood plantations and re-establishment of fire-protection
systems; (v) Rehabilitation of the Forestry Department:
rehabilitation of offices and accommodation, provision of



- ii -
transport and forestry equipment for supervision of forest
activities, technical assistance for planning, procurement
and financial management, and studies; and (vij Training:
rehabilitation of Nyabyeya Forest College to provide
in-service training; rehabilitation of Nakawa sawmill to
provide training in mill and logging operations; limited
study tourse
Benefits and   Benefits include increased production of (i) fuelwood and
Risks:         poles in both peri-urban and rural areas; (ii) timber from
both natural forests and softwood plantations; and (iii)
fodder and fruit in rural areas; protection of unique flora
and fauna in natural forests; conservation of the forest
resource base and protection of the environment; and more
efficient utilization of wood; and easier access to wood
production for consumers. Risks include: delay in project
implementation due to weak implementation capacity, lack of
donor coordination and failure of GOU to allot forestry
revenues to meet requirements to sustain project activities
beyond the project period. The project minimizes these
risks by strengthening the Forestry Department through
provision of equipment, operating costs, housing, technical
assistance and in-service training, by establishing project
coordination and monitoring arrangements with adequate donor
involvement. It would also secure substantial increases in
forestry revenues above incremental operating costs that
would assist GOU to meet its obligations to sustain project
activities. The project is robust in regard to technical
risks and relative to other productive projects, less
vulnerable to the constraints inherent in the current
macro-economic environment. Security is not a major risk as
the planting activities are not located in areas
experiencing extensive civil war.



- iii -
Local         Foreign          Total
-   ----(US$ million)--
Estimated Costs
1.  Energy Farming                          0.2            0.6              0.8
2.  Farm Forestry                           1.9             4.9             6.8
3.  Natural Forest Management
Rehabilitation                          1.4            4.2              5.6
4. Industrial Softwood Plantation
Rehabilitation                          0.4            1.4              1.8
5.  Forest Department Rehabilitation        1.2             6.4             7.6
6.  Training                                 .6             1.5             2.1
Total Base Cost             5.7           19.0            24.7
Physical Contingencies                  0.5            1.4              1.9
Price Contingencies                     5.4            1.3              6.7
Total Project Costs 1/   11.6 2/          21.7            33.3
Financing Plan
IDA                                     2.8           10.2            13.0
EEC                                     2.0            5.0              7.0
DANIDA                                  2.0            5.5             7.5
UNDP                                    1.4            0.8             2.2
CARE                                      -            0.2             0.2
Government of Uganda                    3.4            -               3.4
Total Financing                        11.6           21.7            33.3
Estimated Disbursement from IDA Credit (US$ Million)
IDA FY            88     89      90      91     92      93      94     95
Annual            0.4    1.7    2.3    2.7    2.5    2.0    1.1    0.3
Cumulative        0.4    2.1    4.4    7.1    9.6   11.6   12.7   13.0
Economic Rate of Return:  15%
Staff Appraisal Report No. 6427-UG
IBRD Map No. 20050
I1 Includes US$1.25 million financed under a PPF.
2/ Includes US$0.4 million in taxes and duties and total project cost
net of taxes and duties is US$32.9 million.



GANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. COUNTRY AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Geography and Economy
Geography
1.01      Uganda has a population of appro.:imatelf 14.7 M, over 90% of
which is rural. It covers an area of approximately 241,000 sq. km. of
which 45,000 sq. km. is covered by water. The geography of the country is
physically diverse, characterized by a central plateau region, numerous
waterways and lakes, and three mountainous areas: the Ruwenzori Mountains
in the west rising to 5,000 m, Mount Elgon in the east, and the hilly
Kigezi region in the southwest. Lakes Victoria, Edward, George, Albert and
Kyoga are the main surface water resources, and these are fed by watershed
areas stretching into neighboring countries. The natural forests, which
cover the mountain ranges, play a vital role in regulating stream flow and
protecting the soil.
1.02      Because of altitude (80% of Uganda is between 1,000 and 1,500 m),
the climate is mild, and temperatures vary between a mean minimum of 17°C
and a mean maximum of 32°C over much of the country. There is little
seasonal variation. Average annual rainfall varies from 510 mm to 2,160
mm, but, except for extreme northeast and northwest, is adequate for many
agricultural crops. Soils in general are of reasonable to good fertility.
In the scuth, rainfall is bimodal, with peaks in April to May and September
to November. Moving north, the bimodal patterns become less distinct and
merge into a single rainy season.
1.03      Administratively, Uganda is divided into 33 districts.  The
district is the primary administrative unit for development and, until
recently, was administered by the District Commissioner (DC), who was a
senior civil servant. Districts are now headed by direct political
appointees known as District Adminiqtrators (DAs), and DCs have been
renamed Senior Executive Secretaries.
1.04      Uganda is landlocked.  Road and rail links to Mombasa in Kenya
(1,100 km.from the Ugandan border) are reasonable though in need of
rehabilitation. An alternative link across Lake Victoria to the railhead
at Mwanza in Tanzania is operating, though not very effectively. The
distance to the sea both acts as a barrier to exports of items which Uganda
can produce at low cost (e.g. timber, grains), and affords protection for
domestic production of goods which could otherwise be imported (e.g. sugar,
cement and, potentially, paper products).



- 2-
Political Developments and the Economy
1.05      By the end of the 1960s, Uganda had one of the strongest
economies in Africa. Infrastructure, health and education systems were
well developed, there was a flourishing food and export crop sector, and a
growing industrial sector. Financial menagement was sound, and GDP growth
steady.
1.06      After political unrest, Uganda came under military rule in 1971.
Most industries were expropriated or nationalized and, under inept
management, rapidly declined. In the forestry sector, for example,
sawmills, of which there were 30, were nationalized and grouped under a
parastatal, the Wood Industries Corporation (WICO). Production declined
from about 150,000 m3 of sawn timber in 1970 to 10-15% of this level in
1980.  Macroeconomic management was poor, with growing budgetary and
balance of payments deficits and foreign exchange scarcities. Political
repression increasad, and there was a reversion to subsistence agriculture
as the market economy deteriorated.
1.07      In the unrest surrounding the removal of the dictatorship in
1979, there was much looting and destruction of infrastructure, and for a
time little direction in the economy. Macroeconomic management and
economic performance improved in the 1981-84 period, with successive
devaluations and floating of the exchange rate, removal of price controls
and a policy of returning nationalized industries to their previous
owners. The Wood Industry Corporation (WICO) was abolished, and sawmillers
gradually took up their old concessions. However, political unrest
continued, with bloodshed and acts of violence by the poorly di ciplined
armed forces. Financial and budgetary management deteriorated trom 1984,
inflation increased and there were increasing foreign exchange controls. A
coup in July 1985 was followed by an unsettled period. Attempts to secure
a coalition failed between the new government and representatives of the
National Resistance Army (NRA), which had been the main resistance force in
the early 1980's. The NRA finally took control of the government in
January 1986. Since then, there has been a remarkable improvement in
security and law and order.
1.08      Throughout 1986, inflation was very high.  Output remained
constrained by poor infrastructure and shortages of imperted inputs and
spare parts, while monetization of the budgetary deficiL led to a doubling
of the money supply. By December 1986, the 12-month inflation rate
recorded 175 percent. After a brief return to a dual exchange market rate
between June and August 1986, the exLhange rate was unified in late August
1986 at U Sh 1,400 per one US dollar, the level prevailing at end-1985. As
a result, the real exchange rate in 1986 appreciated by 175 percent. In
late 1986, conscious of the need to re-establish financial stability and
accelerate the rehabilitation of the economy, the Ugandan authorities
decided to prepare a comprehensive three-year program of economic
rehabilitation and development. The program aims at achieving a rapid
overall economic recovery and setting the base for sustained economic
development through diversificeation of exports, promotion of efficient
import substitution activities, and t1zer utilization of domestic
resources. The Government has announced, on May 15, 1987, a new economic
policy package in line with the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) agreed with



- 3 -
the Bank and IMF in March 1987. These policy measures include: currency
reform; setting a realistic exchange rate; substantially increasing
agriculture producer prices; and pricing of petroleum products coupled with
doubling ci civil servants' salaries.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.09      Uganda's economy is essentially agrarian.  Agriculture provides
the livelihood of over 90% of the population. It accounts for over half of
GDP and 99% of merchandise exports. Exports now consist almost entirely of
coffee, which totalled 140,000 tons in 1986, or 87.5% of the country's
quota. This is less than in the late 1960s when cotton, tea, hides and
skins, tobacco and some sugar and wood products were also exported. Food
cra,ps (bananas, plantains, cassava, sweet potato, finger millet, sorghum,
maize, beans and groundnuts) dominate the cropping pattern at present.
Except in the north where ox-cultivation is widespread, cultivation is
largely ty hoe, and inputs (fertilizer and pesticides) are rarely used.
Considering the low input technology, yields are reasonable. This reflects
Uganda's long tradition of settled smallholder agriculture and generally
favorable grc ing conditions, The country is self-sufficient in food
production except for wheat and (at present) sugar and cooking oils. It
has substantial comparative advantage for production of food crops for
export to neighboring countries; however, the prevailing unfavorable
commodity price prospects for grains are likely to make it difficult for
Uganda to compete even for regional export markets in the near future.
1.10      Livestock plays a key role in the economy, par! icularly in the
west and northeast. Livestock numbers have declined since the mid-1970s,
both from looting and slaughter, and from re-emergence of major animal
diseases following deterioration in control measures. The fisheries
subsector is equally important as livestock by providing about 50% of
domestic animal protein requirements.
C. The Forestry Subsector
Natural Forest Reserves
1.11      The gazetted forest reserve comprises 7% of the dryland area
(194,000 sq. km.) of Uganda, distributed as follows:
Tropical high forests   700,000 ha   540,000 ha under production
160,000 ha protection area
Savannah forests         632,000 ha
Plantations               24,300 ha    10,900 ha peri-urban 1/
13,400 ha softwoods
1/   There are in addition, approximately 7,200 ha and 490 ha of fuelwood
plantations for tobacco and tea processing respectively, but these are
outside the control of the Forestry De.irtment.



-4-
Tropical High Forests
1.12      The tropical high forests are concentratLd in Western Uganda
around Lake Victoria and on Mount Elgon in the east. They include rare
flora and fauna plus animals in danger of extinction, and unique ecological
systems. There is a wide variety of tree species including highly valued
species such as mahoganies, Chlorophora, Lovoa and Elgon olive. Through
the 1950s and 1960s, a relatively advanced system of management was
developed by the Forestry Department (FD) for Uganda's natural high
forests, with a well-controlled system of workplans and logging followed by
refinement for charcoal burning and enrichment planting. Training in
milling operations was provided at the wood utilization center at Nakawa in
Kampala. In the past, the forests contributed substantially to Uganda's
tourist industry, which earned over US$20 million in foreign exchange in
the early 1970s. Forest products contributed to public revenues through
royalty collections and sales taxes.
1.13      Since the 1970s, as resources available to the FD declined and
sawmill management deteriorated, the system of management has broken down.
Millers have felled immature trees, and inappropriate logging and
extraction equipment have badly degraded the forest environment, damaging
wildlife habitats and retarding natural regeneration. Wildlife have also
been slaughtered indilcriminately as nature reserves have not been
respected. As the training facility at Nikawa has dete:iorated, sawmilling
skills have declined and there is substantial waste of wuod in logging and
milling operations. The timber resources have been further degraded by
uncontrolled pitsawing, with "creaming" of the best forest trees leading to
impoverished stands, and unlicensed burning for charcoal of valuable timber
trees including mahoganies. Boundaries have not been maintained, and there
has been serious encroachment by agriculturalists (though little permanent
settlement), especially in Mount Elgon, Mabira and Semliki forests. More
recently, as mills have been returned to their owners and new concessions
have been granted, there has been little or rLo link between milling
capacity, the size of the concession allocated and sustainable yield of the
resource. Available wood resources can onlv be guessed at, with the most
recent inventory dating from the early 1960s: Working plans exist for none
of the forests. There is an urgent need to reintroduce an organized system
of management based on sound knowledge of the resource base and its
dynamics, to re-establish boundaries, prepare workplans, control logging
operations and re-establish and respect nature reserves.
Savannah Forests
1.14      The Savannah forest reserves are widely scattered but
concentrated in the north and east of the country. Here too, there has
been uncontrolled cutting of species, often before they reach maturity, and
degradation of the resource base.
Softwood Plantations
1.15      The softwood plantations were first planted in the late 1940s,
and the most recent was planted in the mid-1970s. The long term objective
was to increase the timber resources of Uganda, but also provide a base for
a pulp and paper industry. Plantations, which total 13,400 ha, are



- 5 -
comprised mostly of cypress (Cupressus lusitanica) and pine (Pinus patula,
P. radiata, P. caribea, and a small area of P. oocarpa).  They are located
mostly in the west but also In the center of the country. Over the past 15
years, protection, management and maintenance has virtually ceased, and
this has led to a deterioration of the quality and incremental yields of
the standing stock. Since these trees reached maturity after 1971, the
plantations have never been exploited on a commercial basis. The
plantations now represent a substantially under-utilized source of timber;
some areas are over-mature and o.hers in need of thinning and pruning.
Over the longer term, the softwood plantations could yield 90,000 m3 of
sawn timber per year, half to two-thirds of the estimated demand for sawni
timber in 2000. They could thus relieve, to a substantial extent, pressure
on the ecologically fragile natural hardwo^x1 forests, and millers should be
encouraged to exploit these timber resources. Work plans exist for about
one-third of the softwood area. following inventory work carried out in
1984-85 with the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) assistance.
Woodfuel Production
1.16      Woodfuel plantations were first planted in Uganda over 60 years
ago to provide fuelwood and poles for domestic urban consumption, as well
as for the railways. Plantations were often established in swampy mosquito
infested land inappropriate for agriculture and played a role in reducing
malaria. By the 1970s, 10,900 ha had been established in 22 sites around
12 major towns, mainly of eucalyptus. Many of these plantations are now
overaged and dagraded and have been abandoned, replanting programs do not
exist, and the management system for all woodfuel plantations has broken
down.    There is a need to re-establish wood production on these areas to
meet the wood energy and pole needs of the urban population,
1.17      The bulk of woodfuel supply comes from woody vegetation on public
and private lands. Forestry extension to encourage establishment of
private woodlots started as early as the 1930s, and in the more densely
populated rural areas of southwest Uganda, and around Kampala, small
eucalyptus woodlots for timber and poles are a common feature. Farm
forestry activities over the past three years have been encouraged in the
southwest by a project financed by CARE, an American Voluntary Agency,
supporting nursery establishment, distribution of seedlings, and
extension. The project has now spread to northern and eastern Uganda.
Demand for Forest Products
1.18      Woodfuels.  Forest resources' largest use is for woodfuels, which
account for 96% of domestic energy consumption. Current consum.ption of
woodfuel is not known: estimates vary from 8 to 12 million metric tons of
wood, depending on assumptions used for rural domestic fuelwood
consumption, which account for 80-85% of total consumption of woodfuels.
Of this total, wood requirements for charcoal are estimated at about
580,000 tons. There are wide regional variations and data are lacking but
the theoretical susta.nable yields of woody biomass, for all purposes, are
estimated at about 10.8 million metric tons. These yields are not being
obtained, however, because of poor management; forest resources
lnapproprlate for woodfuels are being cut down for this purpose, damaging
the resource base. Demand, even assuming some urban consumers switching



- 6 -
from chareoal to electricity, is likely to Increase by about 65% by the
year 2000. Thus even with improved management demand will exceed present
supply within 15 years. There is thus a need to increase supply and
improve managemfint of the resource base now, in order to avoid crisis in
the future.
Timber and Poles
1.19      Data on timber and pole consumption and production are lacking.
It LG estimated that 1985 demand for construction poles was about 4-5
million poles per year; demand should increase broadly in line with
population, i.e. double over the next 25 years. Current sawn timber demand
is estimated at about 83,000 m3 21 and would grow to about 130,000 m3 by
the year 2000 assuming low GDP growth (3% p.a.), or to 170,000 m3 'or high
GDP growth (5% p.a.).  A timber marketing survey is needed to provide a
better assessment of demand, both domestically and internationally, of
Uganda's timber products.
1.20      Sawn timber output is estimated at 20,000 m3 from tne sawmilling
industry, the balance being met by pitsavers. Timber production from the
natural forests and plantations could meet demands for tl'a foreseeable
future, but only with sound management, and organized replanting and
enrichment prqgrams.
1.21      Poor management is the main cause of deterioration in Uganda's
forest resource rather than lack of natural production potential. If the
trend is not rapidly reversed, remedies will be increasingly costly and
benefits will take longer to be realized.
D. Forestry and Energy Institutions
1.22      The Forest Department, currently within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry (MAF), is responsible for the country's forestry
sector. The Government intends to transfer by July 1, 1987, the FD from
MAF to the Ministry of Environment. The FD's activities include
management, protection, extension and development of the nation's forest
reserves. The department's administrative headquarters are at Entebbe, and
the central research station is at Nakawa in Kampala. However, the great
majority of staff (117 out of 143 graduates in post and 163 out of 189
foresters), are posted to field assignments at district level or in forest
reserves. Under the Chief Forester Officer (C.O) is a principal research
officer, a deputy and an assistant chief. Seven functional and service
sections support the CFO: administration, forest resources, protection,
planning, inventories and working plans, environmental protectioui and
extension, and research. Thirty-three District Forest Officers (DFOs) are
responsible for all forestry activities within their district. They report
to 10 Regional Forest Officers, who report in turn to the deputy chief.
Work programs and budgets are prepared at the district level, checked and
consolidated by the Regional Officers, centralized by Entebbe, and then
submitted through the MAF to the Treasury.
2/   Sawntimber consumption was 80,000 m3 In 1970; had the economy
continued to develop, it would have been 150,000 m3 by 1985.



1.23      The staff establishment for 1985-86 is indicated below.
Level                   Number
Forest Officers                         160
Foresters (diploma level)               215
Forest Rangers (certificate level)    307
Administrative and support staff        100
Forest guards                           600 3/ (non-establishment
positions)
Numbers have changed little in 3 years. However, 40% of graduate forestry
officers have been appointed since 1979, compared with 2% of foresters; the
senior level is both top heavy and lacking field experience.
1.24      Forestry activities include farm forestry extension in all
districts. For natural forests, they include maintenance of natural forest
boundaries, stockmapping and establishment of workplans for areas to be
logged, collection of royalties, forest enrichment and nature
conservation. They also include establishment and maintenance of softwood
plantations and control of logging in these, and maintenance and sale of
wood from peri-urban plantations. They include control of cutting of
specified species from savannah woodland and public land, and allocation of
licences for charcoal burning.  Revenues from royalties, licences and wood
sales are directed to the Treasury.
1.25      Government's last statement of forestry policy was in 1970.
Objectives included management and development of the nation's forest
reserves to maximize economic production of timber and other forest
products, protect water catchments, soils, wildlife and amenities, ensure
efficient wood utilization and carry out extension programs to ensure
planting and protection of trees. These objectives are valid today but
need updating.
1.26      The FD is grossly underbudgeted, particularly as regards
provision of tools and equipment. In 1985-86, only 0.25% of the national
recurrent budget, or U Sh 648 M was allocated to the Forestry Department.
However, only 3% of this recurrent allocation was for tools and equipment,
and most districts received no allocation at all under these categories for
1984-85 or 1985-86. None of the districts except those where CARE was
operating had any transport at all at time of appraisal. DFOs typically
receive about a quarter of their budget request, almost all for casual
labor, and they do not have the right to re-allocate the budget they do
receive between categories to help them work more efficiently with the
funds they have. Thus, even though there may be funds for employment of
labor, they cannot be used effectively because of lack of funds for tools
3/   Guards were rettoved from the formal establishment in the late 1960's
but remain on the payroll. Many have substantial field experience.
Their reinstatement in the establishment would increase their status
and security and thereby improve their effectiveness in protecting the
forestry resource.



-8-
or transport for supervisory staff, or even stationary on which to record
royalty collection. A further difficulty is the frequent late arrival of
funds, and the fact that wages for casual labor are fixed at U Sh 6,000 per
month (US$4 per month), a rate much too low to retain a reliable
workforce. Although the work progrre mechanism exists and is respected,
field staff cannot fulfill their responsibilities effectively without
tools, equipment and operating cost allowance. Demoralization is
widespread.
Training
1.27      Technician training is carried out at Nyabyeya Forestry College
in Western Uganda. The college has substantial forest land, and has the
capacity to train 25 certificate-level forest rangers per year on a 2-year
course, and 25 diploma-level foresters per year on a 1-year additional
course. The school is well designed; however, almost all dormitory,
kitchen and classroom equipment has been looted, there has been no water
supply for 6 years, and there is little teaching or forestry equipment.
The school has been closed for one year. The curriculum is in need of
revision to emphasize more forestry extension. A further problem is that
most teachers at Nyabyeya lack field experience, and this limitation,
combined with lack of equipment, prevents students from receiving effective
practical training. There is currently no provision for refresher training
for forestry staff. There is a need to provide this trainirlg for staff at
all levels including forest officers and forest guards, to rehabilitate the
college, and to improve the quality of its teachers. The sawmilling
operations facility at Nakawa should also be rehabilitated to provide
training to improve the standard of wood utilization in forest industries.
1*28      Graduate training is provided at Makerere University at a
department originally designed to serve the East African community. Partly
as a result of oversupply of forestry graduates, the greduate establishment
of the FD increased from 40 in 1970 to 160 at present, while work output
declined sharply as resources dwindled. Graduates are not however
guaranteed a job in the Civil Service, and the FD has not recruited
forestry graduates for the last two years.
Research
1.29      The FD has a long tradition of applied research in wood
utilization and silviculture, and there are sample plots in forest areas.
Effective field research and plot monitoring has come to a standstill,
and many records have been destroyed.  The current priority apart from
establishing cost-effectivw. means for reforesting encroachments is to
revive ongoing trials and seed collection, rather than to embark on new
original research.
Ministries of Energy and Environment
1.30      The Ministry of Energy has recently been created, and currently
has cnly minimal staff. It contains five departments: petroleum,
hydrcelectricity, renewables, conservation, and research and planning. The
Wlniratry of Finance currently retains responsibility for pricing policy and
petroleum products procurement, and the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) is



- 9 -
responsible for electric power generation. Finance for strengthening
energy planning has been provided under a UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector
Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), but it will take time for the
capacity of the ministry to be built up. The IDA-financed Second Power
Project (Cr. 1560-UG) includes provision for a charcoal marketing and a
household energy survey, and biomass inventory of private lands. These
studies will form key inputs into long-term planning for the forestry
sector.
1.31      The Ministry of Environment has also been recently created with
four departments:  Natural Resources, Environmental Education, Chemicals
and Operations. Government has officially stated that a fifth department,
the FD, will be established within the Ministry as of July 1, 1987. It
hopes to receive assistance from United Nations Environment Program (UNEP)
for a natural resources survey.
1.32      Close coordination of the forestry project activities with those
of the Ministry of Energy will be essential.
E. Bank and Other Donor Involvement in the Sector and Subsector
1.33      After the overthrow of the military dictatorship in 1979, IDA
assistance was focused on program credits to provide foreign exchange for
imported inputs for production. The IDA Agricutural Rehabilitation Project
(ARP, Credit 1328-UG, 1983, cost US$70 M) finances inputs, equipment for
rehabilitation of the export industries, and studies. The Agricultural
Development Project (ADP, Cr. 1539-UG, cofinanced with IFAD, cost US$30 M)
provides inputs for farmers in seven districts and includes several small
research or pilot institution-building components. It includes US$102,000
for provision of forest nursery equipment. Sugar and tea rehabilitation
projects are planned for FY 88 and FY 89 aiming at export promotion or
import substitution.
1.34      Donor involvement in the forestry subsector has been modest to
date. French bilateral aid has provided equipment for rehabilitation of
Kiira sawmill and plywood factory at Jinja. German bilateral aid financed
aerial photograhy of Budongo forest in Western Uganda, while ODA have
financed detailed inventories in about one-third of the softwood
plantations. The surveys planned under the Second Power Project are
described in para. 1.30.
1.35      A most successful farm forestry project has been financed by CARE
Uganda. The first project for US$1.2 M has covered five districts in
Southwest Uganda and has successfully worked with Forestry Department staff
and provided on-the-job training in farm forestry. CARE have now started
"spearheading" operations in five northern and eastern districts, leaving
the FD full responsibility for management of the program in Southwest
Uganda. The CARE approach, with low profile technical assistance,
logistical support and training to the FD to provide extension services on
nursery establishment and agroforestry, has been responsive and flexible to
farmers' needs, and should be adopted more widely.



- 10 -
1.36      On nature conservation, the World Wildlife Fund for the last 15
years have been financing a study of primates, birds and animal response to
changes in the habitat brought about by logging in Kibale forest. The
study has recently been broadened to include present ecology of several
forests in Uganda. These studies have confirmed that wildlife rapidly
becomes depleted if the variety of tree species and vegetation is reduced
(and seasonal food sources limited), and that areas with poor forest
regeneration after logging cannot effectively support wildlife.
F. Project Origin and Justification
1.37      An Energy Sector Report (No. 4453  of July 1983) carried out for
Uganda under the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program
identified the problem of deforestation and fuelwood supply shortages
around urban areas. The IDA Agricultural Sector Memorandum (Report No.
5044-UG of July 30, 1954) emphasized the problem of deteriorating
management of the forest resource base and the need to reverse the trend of
forest degradation. Government identified the need for reforestation as a
priority and requested IDA to identify a forestry project in late 1984.
The project was prepared in 1985 by the Bank Energy Sector Management
Assessment Program (ESMAP) with Canadian financial assistance. An IDA
mission, which included consultants from EEC visited Uganda in July 1986
and appraised the project.
1.3$      IDA is already involved in the energy sector through the Second
Power project, which includes a number of woodfael energy related studies
(para. 1.30). The proposed project builds on this involvement through
addressing the supply and management side of the wood resource. The
project includes a nature conservation component with specific measures to
improve environmental management. It aims at rehabilitating the overall
forestry sector through strengthening of institutional management while
promoting private sector wood production and exploitation of the forests,
in line with the IDA agricultural strategy for Uganda. The project would
ensure the sustainability of the program beyond the project period through
increased royalties and license fees, and its successful implementation is
relatively less dependent on the macroeconomic policy environment.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01      The overall objective of the project is to improve management of
Uganda's forest resources to meet domestic needs for timber, fuelwood and
other wood products on a sustained basis, while at the same time increasing
the area and improving the management of conservation forests in order to
protect unique ecological systems. The specific objectives are summarized
below:
(i) To increase the production of woodfuels and poles for the urban
population through encouraging private wood farming in peri-urban
areas and managed production of charcoal in natural forests;
(ii) To increase the production of wood products for the rural
population and conserve soil fertility through encouraging
farmers and community groups to plant multi-purpose tree species
for fuelwood, poles, fodder, fruit and soil enrichment;
(iii) To manage and conserve Uganda's natural forests for sustained
timber and charcoal production by the private sector, for revenue
collection from logging, for environmental protection and nature
conservation;
(iv) To increase the productivity of the softwood plantations for
sustained production by the private sector of timber, and to
encourage a shift in exploitation for timber from the
ecologically fragile natural forests to the softwood plantations;
(v) To provide logistical and institutional support to the FD
for achievement of the above objectives and to create the
information and management base for long term planning,
development and conservation of Uganda's forest resources.
B. General Description
Summary of Components
2.02      The project would cover a seven year period.  Project components
are summarized below and detailed in paras. 2.04 to 2.25.
(i)  Peri-urban plantations and Pilot wood farms:  direct
establishment of 900 ha of eucalyptus plantations for
demonstration purposes; provision of seedlings for establishment
by private farmers of 1,000 ha for production of fuelwood and
poles on a pilot basis, all in peri-urban areas on FD land;



- 12 -
(ii)  Farm forestry:  Establishment of nurseries in rural areas for
production of 27 M seedlings annually by year 6 of multipurpose
species to be planted by farmers and non-government agencies,
extension, farmers' training and agroforestry demonstration;
(iii)  Natural forest management rehabilitation:  redemarcation of 1,350
kms. of forest boundaries, encroachment and enrichment planting
of 26,000 ha, extension for improved charcoal production,
improved logging management and revenue collection, management
and biomass inventory and establishment of working plans for
selected natural forests and plantations, and forest patrolling.
Nature conservation areas would be increased from 5% to 20% of
the natural forest area and managed as such, and protected areas
with only limited logging would cover an additional 30%;
(iv)  Softwood plantation rehabilitation:  rehabilitation of 13,900 ha
of softwood plantations, including pruning, thinning, felling,
new planting of 2,750 ha and re-establishment of fire-protection
systems;
(v) Rehabilitation of the Forestry Department: rehabilitation of
offices and accommodation, provision of transport andi forestry
equipment for supervision of forest activities, technical
assistance for planning, procurement and financial management,
and studies; and
(vi)  Training:  rehabilitation of Nyabyeye Forest College to provide
in-service training as well as training for new forestry staff;
rehabilitation of Nakawa sawmill to provide training in mill and
logging operations; limited study tours.
Project Area
2.03      Over the project period the objective is to improve management of
Uganda's forest resource base throughout the country, and logistical
support would be provided to all districts (see IBRD Map No. 20050).
Farm forestry would be carried out in 26 of the 33 districts by the end of
the project period. The peri-urban woodfarming would be carried out around
Kampala, Jinja, Tororo, Mbale (the principal towns in densely populated
eastern Uganda), Arua and Mbarara (cities in drier parts of north-western
and western Uganda respectively, facing growing fuelwood shortages).
Encroachment planting would be concentrated in Mabira, South Busoga, Mount
Elgon, Semliki ard Kibale forests. Nature reserves would include areas in
Budongo, Bwindi, Mabira, Mgahinga, Maramagambo, Bugoma, Kasagala, Kibale,
Mount Elgon, Semliki and Kalinzu forests. Thinning and pruning in softwood
plantations would be on a priority basis, but would start in Mafuga,
Kiirima and Muko, where detailed working plans have already been prepared.
New softwood plantations would be in Lendu, Mafuga, Bugamba, Mwenge,
Bukaleba and South Busoga working plan areas. Training would take place at
Nakawa, in Kampala, for sawmill operations, and at Nyabyeya near Masindi
for in-service training.



- 13 -
C. Detailed Description
(a) Energy Farming (US$0.8 M) 4/
2.04      Forestry Department Peri-urban Plantations.  The project would
establish and maintain 900 ha of plantations, replacing degraded peri-urban
fuelwood/pole plantations on gazetted forestry land in peri-urban areas.
The plantings would serve for trials and demonstration of different species
as well as silvicultural and management techniques. The plantations would
produce woodfuels and/or poles for use in nearby urban areas. The actual
end-use of the wood would be determined by the local market.
2.05      The plantations would be provided with growing stock from six
nurseries which would be rehabil tated and expanded to produce up to
400,000 se3dlings each per year. Inputs for a total of 5.7 M seedlings
through the project would be provided. About 65% of the nursery stock
could be available to private planters for the establishment of woodlots
around urban areas. (See para. 2.07). Tubed stock would be used with a
variety of currently acceptable species such as Eucalyptus grandis and
Markhamia platycalyx as well as introduced species such as other species of
eucalyptus, Acrocarpus fraxinifolius, Cassia siamea, Azadirachta indica and
Melia azardirach.
2.06      The planting sites would be prepared using a low cost taungya
system (licensing of farmers to use the plantations land in advance of tree
planting so that by the time seedlings are planted the land has been fully
cultivated and prepared. The farmers continue cultivation of agricultural
crops until trees shade them out). Taungya greatly reduces the three
greatest direct costs of plantation establishment -- land clearing, soil
cultivation and weeding. However, some weeding would still need to be done
by the FD after the farmer has vacated the land. The FD will also be
responsible for digging of pits, planting and beating up. Four year
rotations would be the general practice and between four and six coppice
rotations can be expected.
2.07      Integrated Pilot Wood Farms.  The project would provide, through
the project nurseries, sufficient seedlings to plant a minimum of 1,000 ha
of private woodlots, over five years at the six peri-urban locations. The
program would test possible approaches to encouraging private sector
involvement in short-rotation wood production under license on forest
department peri-urban land. Progress would be reviewed during
implementation and the scheme expanded if response is favorable. Seedlings
would be sold by the FD at 50% of direct production costs, i.e., U Sh 15.
Eventually it is proposed that nursery packages be sold to the farmers to
enable them to produce their own seedlings. The FD would provide, free of
charge, technical advice on woodlot establishment, maintenance and
management.
4/ All costs are expressed in base costs.



- 14 -
2.08      The project would finance rehabilitation of 50 km. of plantation
roads5/ (serving both the FD and wood farmers' plantations), and
const7ruction of 16 staff houses (see Annex 3, Table 101).
(b) Farm Forestry (US$6.8 M)
2.09      The project would provide for the establishment of a total of
1,020 nurseries in 26 districts producing 27 M seedlings annually by year
6, for planting and raising of trees by farmers for a variety of purposes,
including fuelwood, poles, tlmber, fodder, fruit, agroforestry and soil
enrichment. Annex 9 provides a list of possible spscies. It would provide
short training courses in farm forestry through the project period for a
total of 52 forest officers, 204 foresters/forest rangers, and 120
forest guards. The program would be supported by three expatriate farm
forestry specialists and three VSOs throughout the project period. Annex 7
contains TORs for these specialists. Accommodation and travel allowances
would be provided for FD staff, as well as vehicles, operating costs, and
extension materials (see Annex 3, Tables 201 and 202).
2.10      The program would be implemented in cooperation with CARE (see
para. 1.35) which would provide the technical assistance and Introduce
farm forestry into districts where it has not been practiced before. CARE
would "spearhead" the operation, training FD staff, selecting suitable
nursery sites, tree species, production methods and planting dates, and
establishing extension programs. After a minimum of two years,
responsibility for Farm Forestry operations would be handed over to FD,
though CARE would continue to provide some technical and monitoring
support. CARE are already operating in 11 districts and would start farm
forestry in some five new districts every two years; thus by the end of the
project there would be farm forestry activities in about 26 out of the 33
districts. Extension would include assistance with site selection,
preparation for planting, planting time and distances, agroforestry
configurations, weeding, protection from fire and browsing, pruning,
harvesting and coppicing. It would also involve contact with
non-government agencies and groups interested in farm forestry; indeed a
major thrust of the program would be to encourage community participation
and self-help nurseries. As the system develops, greater coordination
between the Agricultural Department and FD would be established.
2.11      The project would establish three Agroforestry Research and
Demonstration Centers (ARDCs) at District Farm Institutes (DFIs), to be
identified after project start up. They would be operated with the
Department of Agriculture to contribute to training for farmers and as a
general field demonstration. The ARDC's will cater for agroforestry
research (see also para. 2.23) and would promote establishment of
agroforestry demonstration plots on farmers fields. (See Annex 3, Table
203).
2.12      The project would provide direct assistance to NGOs
interested in promoting farm forestry activities through provision of
appropriate tools, equipment and other materials on a grant basis to a
total of US$150,000.
51 Physical targets for major components are outlined in Annex 6, Table 2.



- 15 -
A committee to review requests for grants would be set up (see para. 4.10)
and the maximum grant to any one NGO would be US$10,000.
(c) Natural Forest Management Rehabilitation (US$5.6 M)
2.13      Natural Forest Management (US$4.3 H).  The project would provide
for boundary demarcation and maintenance in natural high forests and
savannah reserves. A total of 1,350 kms. of high forest boundaries would
be planted with marker trees at 30 m intervals; while about one-third of
the savannah reserve area of 632,000 ha would be planted with marker trees
at 30 m intervals.  Seedlings of fast-growing species such as Cassia sp and
Cupressus lusitanica would be provided for the natural high forests, and
cactus, Draceana, Euphorbia sisal, Acacia or Prosopsis plants for the
savannah reserve (see Annex 3, Tables 301 and 302).
2.14      The project would finance the rehabilitation of 26,000 ha of
natural forest throvgh reafforestation of 17,000 ha of encroachment
forest and enrichment of 9,000 ha of degenerated forest, following logging
or failed TSI (timber stand improvement) operations. Most planting will be
done using Maesopsis eminii together with other naturally occurring
species, e.g., Chlorophora, Cordia, Entandrophragma, Nauclea and Terminalia
species in mixture. Four regional nurseries would be established to
support the rehabilitation and boundary operations, with small "flying"
nurseries as appropriate in forest areas. They would produce a total of 1
M seedlings annually. Where needed, accommodation, transport, night
allowance and equipment would be provided to the staff involved in these
activities (Annex 2, Table 303).
2.'5      The project would provide for extension advice to private
charcoalers and control of charcoal burners in the natural forests. They
would be integrated into natural forest management, following logging
operations by burning waste wood, andl leaving land clear for enrichment
planting.  Improved round kilns based on the Casamance kiln would be
introduced in preference to the Banyankole long kiln. The project would
provide accommodation, logistical support and mensuration equipment to
extension woGkers, and 6 man months of technical assistance in charcoal
making management in natural forests through the first three years of the
project (Annex 2, Table 304).
2.16      The project would finance improved logging management,
establishment of detailed forest working plans, and refenue collection from
logging operations, through provision of accommodation, transport,
allowances and mensuration equipment (Annex 3, Table 305).
2.17      Natural Forest Conservation (US$0.7 M).  The project would
increase the proportion of natural forest identified as nature reserves
from 5% to 20% through the project period. Three nature conservation
officers would be appointed to define conservation areas and study species
composition, 12 forest guarus would be provided with the means (housing,
transport, tools, labor) to ensure maintenance of reserves and keep records
(e.g., on flowering of species and animal movements). Technical support
and field training would be provided by the World Wildlife Project In
Kibale Forest. The project would protect the nature reserves by 'buffer



- 16 -
zones" managed so as to mdinimze disturbance with only limited pit sawing
permitted. The ail by the end of the project would be to manage 20% of the
natural forest as nature reserve with an additional 301 as protective
buffer zone. The project would provide for publicity programs for
environmental conservation in natural forests through the media and
encouragement of farmer participation (Annex 3, Table 306).
2.18      Inventory (US$0.6 M).  The project would finance, over a
three-year period, an inventory of standing merchantable timber and biomass
in the natural forests and plantations, with the objective of establishing
stocking rates, sustained timber yield and working plans. It would finance
aerial photography, measuring and camping equipment, transport, allowances,
materials and 20 months technical assistance, including an inventory
specialist (16 months) and computer programmer (4 months). (Annex 3, Table
307). In addition, provision is made to fund a consultant who would draw
up TOls for a natural biomass study whIch would be conducted within the FD
under the Second Power Project (para. 1.30). The TOREs are contained in
Anaex 7.
(d) Industrial Softwood Plantation Rehabilitation (US$1.8 M)
2.19      The project would finance the rehabilitatioa of 13,900 ha of
softwood plantations left unmanaged over the last 10 to 12 years. It would
provide labor and equipment for the pruning of 2,000 ha of plantation for
first thinnings over approximately 2,500 ha; for marking for 4,800 ha of
second thinnings and 2,700 ha of third thinnings and for the felling of
about 3,400 ha of second thinnings and 1,350 ha of third thinnings not
expected be harvested by concessionaires. It would finance rehabil5tation
of 200 km. of plantation roads. It will also provide for the planting of
2,750 ha of plantations (2,000 ha being replanting of clear felled
plantation areas). The component provides for the rehabilitation and
operation of six nurseries, each producing 200,000 seedlings per year.
cupressus lusitanica would be planted at all sites suited to it, the
remainder being planted with P. patula or P. caribasa. A taungya system
would be used to prepare the sites and provide early weeding.
2.20      The project would finance ii firetrucks, fire-fighting equipment
and labor to re-establish effective fire-fighting systems. It would
finance the rehabilitation or construction of 35 houses to accomodate
staff in plantation areas, office and fLeld equipment and transport.
Finally, provision is made for 12 man-snnths of technical assistance in
plantation management (Annex 3, Table 401).
(e) Forest Department Rehabilitation (US$7.6 M)
2.21      Logistical Support (US$5.0 M).  The project would finance the
rehabilitation of offlces at the district and regional level and provide
new buildings where necessary. Space at the present headquarters Is
extremely limited, so provision would be made to move the FD headquarters
from Entebbe to Nakawa by constructing a new office In the grounds of the
Forestry Research Center. Provision would also be made for rehabilitating
30 existing staff houses and constructing 16 new houses in selected
districts and at Nakawa. Office equipment, furniture and materials would
also be provided, as would funds for building maintenance. Provision would
be made for one 4-WD vehicle for each Regional Forest Officer (10) and DFO
(33) and motorcycles and bicycles. At headquarters, the project would
provide three 4-lWD vehicles and five 7-ton trucks. Provision would also



- 17 -
be made for overnight and day allowances for staff. These are intended
primarily to permit overnight travel, but would also act as incentives to
staff (Annex 3, Table 501).
2.22      Planning and_Management (US$2.3 M).  Technical assistance would
be provided under a PPF (Project Preparation Facility), and during the
first three years of the project to improve program planning and execution
capability. Provision would be made for a Project Implementation Team
(PIT), which would include a project coordinator for 51 months, a senior
planning officer and financial controller each for 45 man-months, and a
procurement manager for 42 man-months. Counterparts would be nominated for
the main technical assistance positions. All thi experts would continue
periodic follow-up support visits after the end of the main contract
period. A monitoring and evaluation specialist and building supervisor
would be providad for 8 and 10 months respectively, composed of short-term
visits through the -roject period. On-the-job training would comprise a
major part of technical assistance. The project would finance studies,
including the inventory described in para. 2.18, an inventory of milling
and logging equipment, a study on encroachment, and a study of market
potential for Ugandan timber products.  (See Annex 3, Table 502 for costs
and Annex 7 for terms of reference for technical assistance).
2.23      Research (US$0.3 M).  New primary research is not considered a
priority at present, given the work on silviculture and wood properties
that was carried out in the 1960's and the priority ieeds of
rehabilitation. The project would, however, provide equipment, transport
and materials for a review of past research and trials, and initiation when
appropriate of new silvicultural and provenance trials for timber, energy
wood/pole and agroforestry species within farm systems. A total of 6
man-months of expertiFe in silvicultural agroforestry research would be
provided. It would finance rehabilitation of the seed center at Nakawa and
construction of a new seed center at Fort Portal with appropriate
equipment, and ensure collection, storage and distribution of good quality
seed (Annex 3, Table 504).
(f) Training (US$2.1 M)
2.24      In-service Training and Rehabilitation of Nyabyeya Forest College
(US$1.4 M). A major gap in FD's activities over the past ten years has
been the absence of a comprehensive in-service training program. The
project would fund overseas study tours, short fellowships, courses in
farm forestry at Makerere College, short refresher training courses at
Nyabyeya Forestry College (NFC) for all staff from DFO'e to forest guards,
and farmer training at ARDC's (600 man-months). This amounts to about 150
tanyears of training. Details of the frequency and numbers of staff
participating in these courses are in Annex 6, Table 1. Nyabyeya Forest
College would act as the center for refresher training as well as
continuing to provide initial training for foresters and rangers. The
project would fund rehabilitation of its buildings and equipment, provide
transport, furniture and teaching aids, and operating cozts. In-service
training would start in year 2 after rehabilitation is complete. The
project would also fund a total of 41 man-months of tecbnical expertise in
forestry training through the project period, to prepare curricula,
organize study tours and train teachers (Annex 3, Table 601).



- 18 -
2.25      Sawmill and Logging Operations Training (US$0.7 M).  The project
would finance the redesign and reconstruction of the Nakawa sawmill so that
it can serve as a training facility for sawmill operators and supervisory
staff. Funds would also be made available to repair an existing log
skidder and to provide equipment, vehicles and materials for training
courses in log harvesting and transport. Technical assistance to supervise
mill rehabilitation and train trainers would total 26 man-months and would
include a sawmill design engineer/mill operations trainer, and saw doctor
and logging trainers (Annex 3, Table 602).
D. Technical Assistance
2.26      A summary of technical assistance provisions is given in Annex 7,
Table 1, and this is followed by terms of reference for all technical
assistance positions. Technical assistance totals 1,027 man-months, but
576 man-months would comprise low cost technical assistance provided by
CARE on a grant basis. Thus IDA financed technical assistance expenditures
would cover a total of 38 man-years, comprising 13% of project costs.
Although considerable, this level of TA is essential to the rehabilitation
of the Forestry Department until experienced Uganda staff are available.
Training of counterpart staff would form a key part of experts' terms of
reference. A feature of several positions would be repeated short-term
visits (one to two months per year) throughout the project period, to
provide continued advice on implementation, while retaining full
responsibility with the FD.
E. Forest Policy
2.27      Government has proposed a draft revised National Forest Policy
Statement (Annex 10) which was reviewed during negotiations. Key
objectives include establishing forest management and development practices
that would ensure long-term sustainable yields of merchantable timber,
while at the same time protecting water catchments, wildlife resources and
biological diversity. The Policy Statement incorporates a directive to
carry out extension programs to ensure planting and protection of trees,
and the expansion of the research program to include monitoring and
evaluating of environmental resources and biotic diversity. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government would formally adopt the
Policy Statement by December 31, 1987, and amend, if required, the existing
forestry legislation by June 30, 1988 [para. 8.01(i)).
F. Environmental Impact
2.28      A k;y objective of the project is to improve environmental
management and to arrest uncontrolled overcutting of natural forests. The
project therefore contains several measures to ensure environmental
protection of forest resources. First, the inventory would provide the



- 19 -
information base for long term management and conservation of the forests.
Second, the natural forest management activities incude provision for
demarcating and maintaining boundaries and for erviching Impoverished and
encroached forest areas. Third, logging activities would be improved
through development of working plans for areas to be logged, stockmapping
and control of logging, and training in wood utilization to reduce waste.
Fourth, the nature conservation component provides for in increase in the
area of natural forest identified and managed as nature reserves from 5% to
202 during the project period, and provides for an additional 30% to be
managed as a protective "buffer zone," with only limited pitsawing
permitted. The component would be managed in coordination with the World
Wildlife Project in Kibale forest.  Fif'h, the project provides for
concessionary royalties for logging in coftwood plantations, to encourage a
shift in logging activities from the ecologically fragile natural forests
to the softwood plantations.  On the supply side, production of wood
products would be increased, and the need to cut timber in the natural
forests reduce, through wood farming in urban areas and social forestry in
rural areas (for fuelwood and poles) and through softwood plantation
rehabilitation (for timber).  Sixth, the project provides for publicity
programs for environmental conservation in natural forests through the
media and encouragement of farmer participation.



- 20
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Total costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$33.3 M,
of which US$21.7 M (65%) would be foreign exchange cost and US$0.4 M (1%)
duties and taxes. Summary project costs are in .able 3.01 and details are
in Annex 3.
3.02      The base cost is estimated as of April 1987.  Physical
contingencies are 10% for all cost categories except technical assistance,
for which no contingencies have been provided. Price contingencies,
accounting for 25% of the base cost plus physical contingencies are
estimated on the basis of projected inflation rates. Estimates for local
and international inflation rates are in Annex 2, Table 2.
B. Financing
3.03      The pro,  t would be financed by IDA, EEC, DANIDA, UNDP, CARE and
GOU as summarized       ble 3.02.  An IDA credit of US$13.0 M would finance
the Industrial Soft       Plantation Rehabilitation, Forestry Department
Rehabilitation, the Forestry Inventory and vehicle, equipment and civil
works for the Training components. EEC would contribute US$7.0 M to
finance the Energy Farming and Natural Forest Management Rehabilitation
components. DANIDA would contribute US$7.5 M to finance the Farm Forestry
component. CARE would contribute US$0.2 M to finance the F) staff
training of the Farm Forestry component. UNDP would contribute US$2.2 M to
finance the Training component of the project, which would be executed by
FAO, under an agreement with UNDPO Execution of ^:ofinancing agreements
satisfactory to IDA, by GOU, EEC, DANIDA, UNDP and CARE would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (para. 8.02(i)).



- 21 -
Table .3.01
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
lUS. tkNhlI I .w                                         gin5 I 00
..................... .............. *................ .. ..... ..... .............. .......................... ...................
* Ttal                                              I Ttal
s f*         ua SW                                  s            6600 1
tLcl    foroig     Total    E         _cline    oanto   l.cal   foroigm   T*t.l   I        a     Cot.
I. VEUI-URIIU UttELNOII/OIeW
UtiNlol   EI6It         ltTSTIN/IIF P. F,104.6  3S528.0   4, 62. 8                                  le         S      IK  t    56. 0       m1.1 t5                  S
.. ..... ........ ......... ......... .. ..... ..... _... ........ ....... ......... .......
SibrTotal Ettt FAtMI                                               1,104.6   S.82. 0   4,. O6                         3      166 IU  I    586.0  m    1         is         3
6. fiR   FRESTRY
t. S U   TM EE      OTEIRTN                                     1.01.  l. ST 1. 1  24.646.6             61       1lt ,S3S.5  2,7111.   4,588.2              61        IF
1.   MOO   T in,3ES                                             1,211.4  t2. 19.3  is, 5, I16                    I I     55.2  2.0M.2  2.        1 at In             I I
3. L uOR stRI ORSTRTIoU  CENTERS 5m l6                                       1t4.0       211.8          I I       0       It.s        it 1     280           T         0
.......... .............__ ......... ......... .......   .................  ........... ................... ................................__.
S%*-Total FM  FORSTR Y                                            11.5320 2e ,24.4  40,16.4                n        26    ,112,40  4,U0.?  6021U                n        26
C  V80U1L FrEST N1IAMMI             Rtt    IIUIT*TIhh
.... .... -^.........................
1.  fuRl. FOsRST Nnm* E T                                      ILS17.5  1t,552.4  215. 6t               13       It   t. In2.9  S.  2L.l  *4.55.0           is        if
2. 1*11t FreRESn COIstE                                           435.1     93,1.1    4,314.2           so        3       12.1   6u6          12M. 0         6         S
S. FOrST I       TOIT                                             681. 4   2,416.2   3       .          t1        2      143.6    42.1    146.38             14        2
.. .. ... ....I.... ......... ......... ........ ........ ... .... ........ ......... ..........................  
SitbTotal NATURAL FRST 1             (T REItIilJTATIlU             6151,.4  24.02  13.1861,1               M        22   1.311.2  4,1t1.0  L. A0.               is       2
S.  TRU TR          n         TUNTIS U ReNASILITAtIOU              26.0   6         1.15e.   6 P .1t1.6     1t        6     442.0  1.418.3  1,160.                         t 6
1. FOREST 6SPA3TM         RE itt6LtiI
I. 1001511CM 5059061                                           5.3,1.2  24,64.1  30,2116652                      2       16,61  4.144.1  L 042.68           6        2
3. p11nils M  Remt F                                            1U4t1.4  I2t020.6 1,s12.S3             6         6      246.   2,003.1 I .352.1            6s         9
S. 3tilttDl                                                       240.5   1,414.4   1 ,15.0             a5        I        0.I    2315.1    215.6            65        I
. W .                 .... ......... .......   ........... ........................................  ........ ......... ...................
Sb-Total FORET  EPARTENT  RE LITATIN                                 I24.1   3       6  412.6              64       St 3  1,16.4  834.3  1,10.1                 64       if
F. Tullius
i.  IN tnitLt  Otf W0NAUVT             FORET COLLEE            3.11.1   5.2 0.6        .411.           62         6      632.2     165,.1  1t40e.s          a          6
2.  11110  UtitIZATl * - 1UA16                                    331.0   3.126.2   4t151.2             62        3       55.2    621.1    662.9 92                    3
......... ............. .........  ........ .......  ........ ............ , ........... ................. . ......................
Stotal TRuI1Ihh                                                    3,1121.I   9.066.6  12,616.9           is        9      16.   1514.1  2,102.6               *2        I
. ......  ......... ......... .......   ........ .....................
Total 6511Mt CUSTS                                                  3t63 113,614.9 14T133.2                  IF       t0 0     T1,0.0 1t,63.8 924.63t             1 1     166
P tcal C.14"uonte1                                                3.011.1   64.6.1  1,6.648.              13   I    e       09.3  1.01.0  1,9103               13        6
Wes Ciomt qsul.                                                  16,011.6  14,416.8 150,466.1             40      lO    t 1,424.9  1.335.4  6,10.              20       ST
Totat P1   C1 COSTS                                                11,321.1 163.638                           62' 3            61 .  21,1.2   2       .           6       13
.............................................................................. .............................................................................................................w_
Table 3.02
Financing of Prolect Oost.
(US$ mlillion)
X of Net
Local   Foreign   Total   Z of Total   Project Costs
IDA Credit                                    2.8            10.2              13.0                 39.0                       39.0
EEC Grant                                     2.0              5.0               7.0                21.0                       21.0
DANIDA Grant                                  2.0              5.5               7.5                22.0                       22.0
UNDP Grant                                    1.4              0.8               2.2                  7.0                        7.0
CARE Grant                                      -              0.2               0.2                  1.0                        1.0
Governvent of Ugaida    3.0                                      -               3.0                  9.0                      10.0
Net Project Costs                           11.?              21.7             32.9                 99.0                     100.0
Taxes and Duties                              0.4                -               0.4                  1.0
Total Project Costs    11.6                                  21.7              33.3               100.0
_-



- 22 -
Government of Uganda would contribute US$3.4 M towards the financing of
local costs. Project start-up activities (including preparation of the
first Annual Work Program and procurement documents) would be financed by
IDA under a PPF (Project Preparation Facility). PPF cost has been
estimated at US$1.25 M and is included in the estimated project cost
(Annex 2, Table 1).
C. Procurement
3.04      Procurement arrangements for items financed by IDA are summarized
in Table 3.03 below and would be in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Procurement for those project elements financed by EEC, UNDP and CARE would
be in accordance with tneir own procurement procedures.
Table 3.03
Proposed Procurement Method
(US$ million)
ICB    LCB    Other    NA        Total
Civil Works                          1.4       3.3              4.7
(1.4)                     ( 1.4)
Vehicles                      2.9              3.4              6.3
(2.9)           (0.7)            ( 3.6)
EquipmernL                    0.3              2.5              2.8
(0.3)           (1.6)            ( 1.9)
Materials                                      1.3               1.3
(0. 1)          ( 0.1)
Technical Assistance                           6.3              6.3
(2.7)           ( 2.7)
Training                                               1.8       1.8
Operations & Maintenance                       6.0              6.0
(2.8)           ( 2.8)
Establishment & Main-                                  2.0      2.0
tenance Labor                                       (0.4)   ( 0.4)
Staff Allowances                                       2.1      2.1
(0.1)   ( 0.1)
Total                         3.2    1.4      22.8     5.9     33.3
(IDA Total)                  (3.2)  (1.4)   ( 7.9)   (0.5)   (13.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by IDA.



- 23 -
3.05      Project civil works (about US$1.4 M) would consist mainly of
construction of staff houses, offices, academic buildings, student
dormitories and roads. Work would be scattered throughout the project area
and over the project period. As designs would be simple and construction
technique labor intensive, such contracts would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding and would be let through local
competitive bidding following procedures acceptable to IDA. Vehicles and
some equipment (US$3.2 M) would be purchased by ICB. Domestic preference
of 15% would be applied Lo qualified local manufacturers. Miscellaneous
equipment (1;$1.6 M) including office and field equipment, would be
purchased in lots of relatively low value, inappropriate for ICB. These
items would be purchased through limited international tendering for
contracts estimated to cost over US$50,000 each. Materials such as seed,
fertilizer and polythene bags, wovld also be purchased through these
procedures. Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each
would be made by prudent local shopping or by purchases off the shelf after
obtaining at least three quotations, up to a total of US$.5 M.
3.06      The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of internationally recruited experts and consultants funded by
IDA (US$2.5 M) would be accorling to IDA guidelines and would be subject to
IDA approval.6/ To expedite recruitment and provide technical and
administrative back-up, internationally recruited technical assistance
staff would, where practical, be grouped into teams and procured through
consulting firms acceptable to GOU and IDA. The balance of IDA financing
would consists of operating costs (US$2.8 M), establishment and maintenance
labor (US$0.4 M) and staff allowances (US$0.1 M).
3.07      Bidding packages for goods aad works estimated to cost over
US$150,000 would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement
documentation. This would result in a coverage of about 80% of the total
estimated value of contracts financed by IDA. The balance of contracts
would be subject to post review by IDA after contract award.
D. Status of Project Preparation
3.08      Project activities, physical implementation targets and
requirements for equipment, goods and services have been defined for the
project period (Annex 2, Tables 101 to 602 and Annex 6, Table 2).
Technologies are known and have been widely practiced in Uganda. A draft
work program for the first year, including technical assistance
requirements, equipment to be procured and civil works has been prepared
and were discussed at negotiations. Standard designs already exist for the
bulk of civil works contracts except for the forest guards' houses, for
which a low cost technology, widely known in Uganda, would be used.
Detailed designs and procurement documents would be prepared under PPF with
the assistance of the buildings supervisor and procurement manager.
6/   Guidelines for the use of consultants by World Bank borrowers and by
the World Bank as executing agency, Aug. 1981.



- 24 -
Technical assistance for all posts has yet to be identified. Detailed
annual work programs (see para. 4.08) for the first year would be prepared
with technical assistance under PPF. Nursery establishment and seedling
production to ensure planting activities in the first year of project
implementation would also be financed under PPF.
E. Disbursements
3.09      Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures:
(a)  100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditures for civil works
(US$1.25 M);
(b)  100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditures for vehicles,
equipment and materials (US$4.50 M);
(c)  100% of expenditures for technical assistance and training
(US$2.25 M);
(d)  50% of expenditures for incremental recurrent cost, including
staff allowances, establishment and maintenance labor and
operating and maintenance costs (US$2.25 M);7/
(e)  100% of principal disbursed and accrued charges for refund of
project preparation facility (US$1.25 M); and
(f)  unallocated (US$1.50 M).
3.10      Disbursements for all expenditures would be made against full
documentation except where they are reimbursable against statements of
expenditure (SOE). Reimbursement of eligible expenditures against
incremental recurrent cost and contracts for goods and services valued at
less than US$150,000 equivalent in both local and foreign currency would be
made solely on the basis of SOE. All documentation authenticating such
expenditures would be retained by the FD and made available for review by
IDA upon request.
3.11      The proposed credit would be disbursed over seven and a half
years based on past experience with similar projects as reflected in the
relevant standard profile.
Special Account
3.12      In order to facilitate implementation of the project, it is
important that the FD have prompt access to the requisite funds. The FD
would maintain a project account for local currency in a commercial bank,
7/ Actual disbursement would be on a declining basis:
90% until cumulative disbursement under this category
reaches US$0.5 M; 70% until US$1.0 M; 50% until US$1.5 M;
and 30% until US$2.25 M.



- 25 -
replenished quarterly by GOU, to ensure that the FD has adequate working
capital; GOU's initial deposit to the project account would be U Sh 750 M.
In addition, to provide foreign exchange in a timely manner and to expedite
disbursements, the Borrower would open and maintain a special US dollar
account with a commercial bank. The opening of the project and special
accounts is a condition of credit effectiveness [para. 8.02(ii)]. The
special account would be used to pay the IDA portion of all eligible
project expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness and at the request of the
Borrower, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$750,000 to the special
account, which would be replenished periodically on the basis of the
documentary evidence provided to the Association by the Borrower of
payments made from the account.
F. Accounts and Audit
3.13      The Forestry Department would maintain separate project accounts
to identify physical progress and financial transactions relating to the
project in a readily identifiable form to enable them to be audited
independently. Separate accounts would also be kept for all expenditures
for which credit withdrawal would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, would audit the
accounts each year. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
audit report would be sent to IDA within six monthsof the close of the
fiscal year and would include an opinion as to whether the credit funds
disbursed against statements of expenditures had been used for the purpose
for which they were provided [para. 8.01(ii)].



- 26 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination Committee
4.01      The implementation of the project would require close
coordination not only between Donors and the FD but also between the
Ministries of Agriculture and Forestry, Finance, Energy, Environmental
Protection and Planning and Economic Development (MPED). A project
coordination committee comprising seven officials of the five ministries,
headed by the Permanent Secretary for MAF, would meet twice a year to
review project progress and resolve interministerial and donor-related
issues. The meetings would be held in May and November each year to
synchronize with the review of the AWP prior to the start of each project
year and during the middle of the year. Establishment of the project
coordination committee would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para.
8.02(iii)).
Project Management
4.02      The Chief Forestry Officer of the FD of MAF would have overall
responsibility for implementation of the proposed project. He would be
assisted by a team of consultants comprising a Project Coordinator, Senior
Planning Officer, Financial Controller, Procurement Manager, Buildings
Supervisor and Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (see TOR, Annex 7).
Part of this Project Implementation Team would be funded initially under a
PPF so that gearing-up operations can be initiated before project
effectiveness. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
counterpart staff for planning, procurement, and financial management,
acceptable to IDA, would be provided [para. 8.01(iii)J.
Project Organization
4.03      The Forestry Department would be reorganized through a
restructuring of existing organizational framework to reflect the
importance of farm forestry, requiring no additional staffing. FD has
agreed in principle to the reorganization, which would be described in the
first detailed Annual Work Program. There would be three major units, each
headed by an officer with the rank of Deputy Chief Forest Officer.  They
would comprise planning and administration, technical services, and
research. The Government would reorganize the FD and submit a staffing
plan as a condition of credit effectiveness [para. 8.02(iv)].
4.04      Planning and administration would consist of three divisions:
(a) forest planning, including project preparation, monitoring, inventory
and reports; (b) finance, including procurement and departmental estimates;
and (c) admiristration, including personnel and training.
4.05      Technical services would consist of:  (a)  Forest Resource
Management including natural forest and timber plantation management,
preparation of concession licences, and implementation of working plans;
(b) Wood Energy and Pole including peri-urban plantation management and
pilot wood farms; (c) Forest and Environmental Protection including forest
legislation and gazetting, and protection of nature reserves; and (d)
Farm Forestry Extension Services including all farm forestry activities,
extension to schools, mass communication, and coordination with NGOs.



- 27 -
4.06      The Research Unit responsibilities would cover silvicultural
research, forest protection research, forest products research, farm
forestry and environmental research.
4.07      Implementation of all project forestry activities in the field
would be the responsibility of RF , DFOs and their subordinate staff under
the administrative authority of the CFO and with technical guidance from
the technical divisions and Forestry Research Unit. The existing staff
establishment is sufficient to implement all- project activities. An
outline staffing plan is provided in Annex 6, Table 3. Forest guards play
a key role in implementation of forest activities, although they do not
presently form part of the formal establishment. GOU has agreed in
principle to reinstate them in the establishment and the formal reinstate-
ment of these staff is a condition of effectiveness [para. 8.02(v)].
Annual Work Program
4.08      Annual Work Programs (AWP) would be prepared by the Project
Coordinator, his team and FD staff. The AWP would: review progress to
date; describe the forestry work program for the coming year; estimate the
staff, equipment, etc., needed to achieve the work program objectives;
prepare an appropriate budget; outline details of procurement required and
civil works to be constructed; provide details of the program of forestry
research; and identify training courses and selected candidates for
overseas, local and in-service training. It would also review and revise
as necessary, policy regarding royalties and seedling sales prices as well
as results of revenue collection in the preceding year. The pace of
expansion of project activities for a particular year would be in relation
to actual revenue collection in the preceding year. Each AWP would be
reviewed and commented upon by IDA. A draft work program, including a
staffing plan for the first year, was reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
Assurances were obtained that AWPN satisfactory to IDA would be prepared
for the ensuing years and that the execution of the project would be
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors
consistent with the Government's policy on Forest Resource Management
[para. 8.01(iv)].
Control of Logging Activities, Concessions and Charcoal Burning
4.09      Control of sawmillers in concession areas, preparation of
detailed working plans, control of pitsawers and charcoal burners including
revenue collection, would be the responsibility of the relevant district
officers, assisted by forest guards and rangers in the logging areas.
Sawmillers would be obliged to respect the conditions of their cutting
licenses. They world have to use logging and milling equipment consistent
with sound forest management practice. Review of equipment would be the
responsibility of the utilizatior section of the Forestry Research Center
at Nakawa, which would also review, with the Forest Resources Management
Division, all applications for concessions. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that by September 30, 1988, Government would take all



- 28 --
measures necessary to ensure that all forest harvesting licenses issued to
mechanical and chemical wood-using industries would include provision for
the use of such logging and milling equipment in conformity with sound
forest management practices [para. 8.01(vii)]. Pitsawyers' licenses would
be controlled, their activities concentrated into coupes, the number of
species they cut increased and the individual trees identified. Trees to
be felled would be selected and marked by FD rangersand their volume
measured either on site (for pitsawyers) or at sawmill yards. Charcoal
burners would be organized to make charcoal only in the areas specified on
their licenses, which would be issued monthly by the DFOs for every person
engaged in charcoal making and would include the name of the forest gulard
to which the burner reports.
CARE and NGO Involvement in Farm Forestry
4.10      As described in para 2.10, CARE would have direct responsibility
for implementing the farm forestry component in 'spearheading' districts,
with the assistance of FD staff. During negotiations, CARE, FD and DANIDA
agreed to specify their respective responsibilities and to guarantee CARE's
access to sufficient funds for operating costs. The administration of NGO
grant funds (para. 2.12) would be the responsibility of a coordinating
committee comprising FD, CARE and any other entity co-opted for this
pupose.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      The Forestry Department would prepare semiannual progress reports
(quarterly reports may be prepared for internal use) on physical and
financial progress in a format acceptable to IDA and in accordance with key
indicator guidance established through the AWP mechanism. A monitoring and
evaluation expert would provide periodic assistance (total eight months)
throughout the project period in designing the progress report and ensuring
that targets set through the AWP are measured in a way that is helpful to
management.  Within six months of completing the project, the Miniatry of
Agriculture and Forestry would prepare a completion report (PCR) acceptable
to IDA that would include all aspects of the project, including the
achievement of FD.
Mid-Term Review
4.12      Experience gained with previous projects in Uganda have confirmed
the value of a formal mtl-term review of project implementation progress
and a preliminary evaluation of project impact. Such a procedure would
lead to an improvement in the orientation of the project activities.
Accordingly, GOU would undertake jointly with the donors a mid-term review
in accordance with terms of reference prepared in consultation with IDA.
The joint review, to be carried out no later than March 31, 1990, would
include a field review of project progress to determine what changes, if
any, are required to improve project implementation. Assurances that the
mid-term review would be undertaken as outlined were obtained during
negotiations [para. 8.01(v)].



- 29 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      Sawn timber.  Sawn timber production will expand over the next
ten years as the economy and the construction industry recover. These
production increases will be due to investments by the private sector in
milling operations; the project will lay the management base for these
production increases to be sustained.
5.02      Direct production increases from the project are detailed in
Annex 4, Table 1. Incremental yields from the natural forests comprise
timber and charcoal from improved management of logging operations,
refinement, and improved wood utilization following training. Incremental
yields from enrichment planting begin only after 30 years, when fast
growing hardwoods such as Maesopsis eminii can be harvested. Up to year
30, incremental yields average 45-50,000 m3 per year of roundwood, and
30-40,000 tons of charcoal. By year 32, incremental yields are 570,000 m3
of hardwood per year as the Maesopsis reach harvestable age.
5.03      Incremental yields from the softwood plantations would be the
result of thinning operations, reduced losses from windfall and fire due to
improved management and improved utilization. These would average
30-40,000 m3 of roundwood up to year 10, but increase to 50-100,000 m3 of
rouLdwood in year 10-25. After year 27, the softwood planted under the
project would comee into production, yielding up to 200,000 m3 per year of
incremental rounlwood.
5.04      Fuelwood and Poles.  Production increases from farm forestry
would depend on the species planted, and would be in the form of increased
fuelwood and pole production, increased fodder or forest production, and
increased production of other crops due to improvement in soil fertility
and more time for crop cultivation due to less time spent in fuelwood
collection. In order to simplify the analysis, it has been assumed that
all seedlings from the farm forestry component would be used either for
fuelwood (70%) or poles (30%), Annual incremental production would
increase from 270,000 stacked m3 of fuelwood and 1.7 million poles in year
6 to 950,000 stacked m3 of fuelwood and 5.5 million poles in year 9.
Anuual incremental production would continue at about this level, though
fluctuating until year 30, assuming 6 coppices under a four-year cycle.
This assumes a Mean Annual Increment (MAI) of 18.21 m3 per ha per year.
5.05      Incremental yields from the peri-urban component are estimated at
10-16,000 stacked m3 of fuelwood ard 1 million poles per year from the
plantations. From the private farmers they are estimated to be similar.
Yields (MAls) are assumed to be 50% higher than with farm forestry.



- 30 -
B. Markets and Prices
5.06      All wood products in Uganda are freely traded, with the price
determined by market forces. Reliable data on market prices are not
available, but there are wide regional fluctuations. The limited
information which is available suggests that while sawn timber price
changes have been more rapid than inflation over the past two years,
charcoal and fuelwood prices have not.
5.07      Retail prices for good quality hardwood (mahoganies,
Chlorophoras) averaged U Sh 475,000 per m3, and U Sh 380,000 per m3 for
Class 2 hardwoods at appraisal. Data were not available for softwoods
(except cypress whose price was similar to good quality hardwoods). Uganda
used to export plywood, veneer and high quality sawn timber. At present,
exports are minimal, and should not be promoted until quality control and
grading mechanisms are re-introduced. There may, however, be scope for
export of high grade timber products to Kenya and beyond. There is also
scope for export of sawn timber to Rwanda, and a substantial proportion of
the softwood resource base is not far from the border. Charcoal prices
varied at appraisal from U Sh 7,000 per 25 kg bag (excluding the sack) in
town, to U Sh 3,000-U Sh 4,000 on the roadside. Fuelwood prices varied
very widely, from U Sh 15-25,000 per stacked m3 in Kampala, to U Sh 3-5,000
at the roadside in rural areas.
5.08      Given the lack of information about recent changes in price or
quantity of traded wood products, it is very difficult to make any market
forecasts. It is clear' rom the limited information that is available
(para. 1.19) that there i's substantial unmet demand in Uganda for
sawn timber. Demand would have doubled since 1970 to 150,000 m3 in 1985,
rather than the estimated 83,000 m3, had the economy not been disrupted by
political strife. The situation regarding market information should
improve over the next years as a result of:
(i)  The charcoal marketing and household energy surveys and the
national biomass inventory to be financed under the Second Power
Project;
(ii)  The Uganda timber and timber products market study to be financed
under this project. This study will examine the scope for
production and export of mechanical (sawn timber, plywood,
veneer, furniture, etc.) and chemical (pulp and paper) wood
products; and
(iii) The forest inventory to be financed under the project.



- 31 -
VI. FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS
6.01      The project would provide the means for making forestry a
significant source of cash for the country's Treasury. The sources of
revenue for the FD are royalties and license fees for logging, fuelwood
cutting and charcoal burning activities from public land. In the 1960s
these royalties were calculated on the basis of residual stumpage, after
allowing for harvesting and milling costs, and were regularly adjusted.
Although revenues accrued to the Treasury, they went a substantial way to
defraying the costs of the Forestry Administration. Royalties for Class 1
hardwoods in the early 1970s, if this had been adjusted for inflation,
would be equivalent to U Sh 37,500 per m3 in 1986 prices. Over the past 15
years, royalty adjustment has lagged seriously behind inflation. Royalties
are currently U Sh 3,000 per m3 for Class 1 hardwoods and U Sh 1,020 per m3
for class 2 hardwoods. These figures represent well under 1% of the
selling price for sawn timber. The low levels have two disadvantages:
first, they result in loss of revenue for the government, and second, by
underpricing wood, they provide little incentive for millers to use the
resource efficiently, and result In unnecessary waste and destruction of
the forest resource. Furthermore, even these royalties are rarely
collected, since FD officials lack the transport to go to the forests, the
instruments to measure sawlog volume, and the paper on which to record
receipts.
6.02      Under the project, it is proposed to restore royalties to leveie
approaching those prevailing in the early 1970s in real terms. This would
be achieved by the strict erforcement of the FD's standing orders for
collection of revenue and increased staff mobility with the vehicles
provided under the project, as well as expected improvement in field staff
morale ethic due to provision of uniform, subsistence allowance and
out-of-pocket expenses. Moreover, incentive for revenue collection would
be in the form of opportunities for career development through promotion of
those staff achieving targets for revenue collection.
6.03      Logging and milling costs cannot at present be calculated.
Royalties would therefore be set as a percentage of (market determined)
retail prices for sawn timber similar to that of the early 1970s, and
adjusted every six months in line with retail price changes. The royalty
proposed for Class 1 hardwoods is 15% of the selling price, or, assuming a
40% recovery, a royalty equivalent to 6% of the retail price of sawn
timber. At appraisal retail, sawn timber prices averaged U Sh 475,000 per
m3; thus the appropriate royalty would be U Sh 28,500. This is lower than
the royalty level calculated based on residual stumpage, based on
inadequate information of U Sh 34,000. The royalty proposed for Class 2
hardwoods is 10% of the selling price, or U Sh 15,000 per m3 assuming 40%
recovery (i.e., 4% of the retail price of sawn timber), and for softwoods
and Class 3 hardwoods it is 7% assuming 30% recovery. The low rates for
these timber categories are to encourage millers to exploit the softwood
plantations and use the less valuable hardwood species.
6.04      Licensing arrangements for charcoal burners would also be
modified. Licenses are currently granted annually for U Sh 50,000, with no
limit to the amount of charcoal burnt or the number of employees. The
license fees would be revised to represent the equivalent of a roadside
selling price of three bags of charcoal per month (7.5% of the average



- 32 -
monthly production of a charcoal burner), or given the present prices, U Sh
12,000 per month, and adjusted every six months in line with inflation.
The level of fees proposed is similar to license fees prevailing in the
late 1960s, which was based on charcoal production cost estimates.
6.05      Revisions are also proposed in royalty levels for fuelwood and
poles from public land, but since these form a much smaller proportion of
revenue potential, agreement on their levels would be reached through the
AWP mechanism.
6.06      Government has completed an interim adjustment of royalty levels
for Class 1 hardwoods to 8%, for Class 2 hardwoods and cypress to 5%, and
for softwoods and Class 3 hardwoods to 4% of the retail selling price; and
adjustment of charcoal license fees to 7-1/2% of the retail value of the
average monthly charcoal production from each individual charcoal burner.
Assurances were obtained prior to negotiations that further adjustment of
royalty levels for the three categories of timber to 15%, 10% and 7%,
respectively, would be made by December 31, 1988 [para. 8.01(v)). The
Government has designed and established an adminis.rative arrangement that
would ensure adjustment of royalty and charcoal license rates every six
months in line with inflation.
6.07      Revenues accruing to the Government, assuming adjustment of
royalties to the levels proposed, are indicated in Annex S, Table 1. On
the assumption that collection rates increase from 10% in Year 1 to a
maximum of 60% in Year 4, revenues would average U Sh 69 billion per year
after Year 6 of the project, compared with recurrent and replacement costs
of U Sh 23 billion per year (expressed in 1993 prices). In order for
revenues to fall below recurrent costs, revenue collection level would have
to fall below 30%. A major element of project activities is to provide the
FD with the means to manage the forest resources effectively, including
royalty collection. It may safely be assumed that royalty collection
level would be well above 30%.
6.08      The project's fiscal impact has been calculated, including
Government contribution to project costs, interest charges to IDA, and
replacement costs. Government's cash flow is indicated in Annex 5, Table 2
and is positive after the second year with substantial revenue source to
compensate the Government's contribution of US$3.4 M towards project cost,
as well as recurrent cost after project completion.
Farm Model
6.09      A farm model has been prepared only for the peri-urban compon-
ent (Annex 5, Table 3). For farm forestry, where woodlots or poles are
produced, the model would be similar Xv that for peri-urban areas.
However, there would in fact be such variations in the species planted, the
method of planting (in rows, as woodlots, isolated, interplanted with food
crops, etc.), and their use, that there is little benefit in producing a
farm model. Establishment costs are more than offset in the first year
from revenues from foodcrops interplanted with seedlings, and benefits from
fuelwood and poles are recouped from Year 4. The net present value of
woodfarming on 1 hectare to the farmer, at 10% interest, is U Sh 7.6
million over a 25-year period.



-33 -
VII.  BENEFITS, RATE OF RETURN AJD RISKS
7.01      Most benefits from the project cannot be quantified.  The main
benefit would be establishment of the institutional base for managing
Uganda's forest resources in an ecologically sound way, while at the same
time ensuring sufficient production of wood products to meet the countries'
needs. It is this management benefit, rather than direct production
benefit, that is the main objective of the project. Improved protection of
unique flora and fauna in the natural forests is an important
unquantifiable benefit.
7.02      Reduced time spent by women in collecting firewood from far
afield is a key benefit of the farm forestry component. Time saved would
yield social benefits, through increased time available for child-care and
household tasks. It would also yield eonomic benefits, through increased
time available for crop cultivation, better weed control end higher
yields. Pole production would also result in reduced time spent gathering
(often poor quality naturally growing) poles, and less frequent replacement
of houses through use of stronger poles. The end result would also be more
time available for care of crops.
7.03      An attempt has been made, nevertheless, to calculate an ERR for
the project, taking into account those elements which can be quantified.
These include:
(i)  increased timber production due to:  new planting (in the
plantations and from enrichment in the natural forests); thinning
(i.e., the plantations and natural forests); reduced losses from
fire and wind throw in the plantations; and efficiency gains from
improvement in logging from improved management and control of
logging activities;
(ii)  increased charcoal production from controlled felling activities
in the natural forests; and
(iii)  increased fuelwood and pole production from farm forestry and
pern-urban wood farming.
7.04      Timber was valued at the export parity price to Kenya, although
the great bulk of increased production would be for local consumption.
Fuelwood, pole and charcoal production were valued at their stumpage value
based on roadside prices, although the great majority of production would
be in rural areas from farm forestry activities, and would not be
marketed. All costs were included in the analysis except for training,
research and studies costs, Recurrent costs such as staff salaries and
operating expenses and replacement costs of vehicles and equipment were
computed. The project life was assumed to be 36 years, to allow for timber
trees planted during the project to grow to harvestable age. Local costs
have not been adjusted by a standard conversion facto. since the recently
announced official exchange rate is almost equal to market exchange rate
through the devaluation in May 1987 from US$1 - U Sh 1,400 to US$1 -
U Sh 6,000. The economic rate of return has been calculated for the



- 34 -
project, as a whole, and by project components for which benefits could be
quantified. Assumptions, costs and benefits streams are detailed in Annex
4, Tables 1, 2 and 3.
7.05      The economic rate of return for the entire project is estimated
at 15%. Sensitivity tests are detailed in Annex 4, Table 3, They
illustrate that costs could go up by 37% or benefits fall by 27%, for the
project to achieve an ERR of 10%. If benefits are delayed one year, the
ERR would fall to 13%. Individual ERR for the components are: natural
forest management 45%; softwood plantation rehabilitation 51%; and pilot
peri-urban and private wood farming 7%. The latter component is of a pilot
nature with total costs of US$0.8 M.
Risks
7.06      There are relatively few technical risk to the project.  The
trees to be grown have been for the most part widely cultivated in Uganda,
and have proved successful. Relative to other production oriented
projects, the project is less vulnerable to constraints inherent in the
current macroeonomic environment.
7.07      Delay in project implementation due to weak implementation
capacity and lack of donor coordination is the main risk. The Forestry
Service Staff have become demoralized following over ten years of
inactivity and insufficlent resources with which to work. The project
minimizes this risk through providing FD staff with equipment, vehicles,
operating costs, overnight allowances and accommodation. Technical
assistance for procurement should ensure that these goods arrive promptly.
Furthermore, the refresher training course through the project period, and
training provided through technical assistance, should help to restore
morale and productivity. The establishment of a Project Coordination
Committee would strengthen monitoring of project implementation, besides
fostering better donor coordination.
7.08      The second major risk is that after the project period, the
Government will not allocate sufficient funds to the FD to ensure continued
implementation of activities. This risk is inherent in most projects.
Since, however, revenues to the Treasury from royalty collection are
substantially greater than the recurrent costs of running a restored FD, it
id In Government's interest to continue to support forestry activities.
Furthermore. the project sets up the institutiontal mechanism to ensure
sustainability by strengthening the FD and its renevenue collection
capacity, initiating forest management programs and providing the planning
basis for long-term management of Uganda's forestry resources. Security is
not a major risk as the planting activities are not located in areas
experiencing extensive civil war.



- 35 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i) The Government would formally adopt the Forest Policy Statement
by December 31, 1987, and amend, if required, the existing
forestry legislation by June 30, 1988 ((para. 2.27);
(ii) Audited accounts and report would be sent to IDA within six
months of the close of the fiscal year (para. 3.13);
(iii)  Counterpart staff for planning, procurement and financial
management acceptable to IDA, would be provided (para. 4.02);
(iv)  Annual work program satisfactory to IDA would be finalized and
that the execution of the project would be carried out with due
regard to ecological and environmental factors consistent with
Government policy on Forest Resource Management (para. 4.08);
(v)  A mid-texa review of the project would be undertaken no later
than March 31, 1990 (para. 4.12); and
(vi)  By December 31, 1988, royalty rates would be increased for Class
i hardwood to 152, for Class 2 hardwood and cypress to 10%, and
for Class 3 hardwood and softwood to 7% of the retail selling
price (para. 6.06); and
(vil)  By September 30, 1988, all measures necessary would be taken to
ensure that forest harvesting licenses issued would include
provision for the use of logging and milling equipment in
conformity with sound forest management practices (para. 4.09).
8.02      The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i) Execution of cofinancing agreements with the respective
cofinanciers (para. 3.03);
(ii) Establishment of (A) a project account with an initial deposit of
U Sh 750 M, and (Li) a special account in foreign exchange to
receive and disburse IDA's contribution towards the project cost
(para 3.12);
(lii) Establishment of a project coordinating committee (para. 4.01);
and
(iv) Reorganize the FD and submit a staffing plan (para. 4.03);
(v) Formal reinstatement of forest guards in the staff establishment
(para. 4.07); and
8.03      With the above assurances and covenants, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit for SDR 10.0 million (US$13.0 million
equivalent) to GOU.



- 36 -
Annex 1
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(US$ millions)
IDA                          Disbursements at
Fiscal Year   Quarter Ending    End of Quarter    Cumulative
1988       September 1987          -                 -
December  1987          -                 -
March     1988         0.2               0.2
June      1988         0.2               0.4
1989       September 1988         0.3               0.7
December  1988         0.3               1.0
March     1989         0.5               1.5
June      1989         0.6               2.1
1990       September 1989         0.5               2.6
December  1989         0.5               3.1
March     1990         0.6               3.7
June      1990         0.7               4.4
1991       September 1990         0.7               5.1
December  1990         0.7               5.8
March     1991         0.6               6.4
June      1991         0.7               7.1
1992       September 1991         0.6               7.7
December  1991         0.7               8.4
March     1992         0.6               9.0
June      1992         0.6               9.6
1993       September 1992         0.5              10.1
December  1992         0.6              10.7
March     1993         0.4              11.1
June      1993         0.5              11.6
1994       September 1993         0.3              11.9
December  1993         0.3              12.2
March     1994         0.2              12.4
June      1994         0.3              12.7
1995       September 1994         0.2              12.9
December  1994         0.1              13.0
1/  Expected date of signing:         July 1987
Expected date of effectiveness:  October 1, 1987
Expected completion date:         June 30, 1994
Closing date:                     December 31, 1994



- 37 -
Annex 2
Table 1
Page 1
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Costs of PPF Activities
Planning and Management Support                     Cost US$(000)
Project Coordinator (9 manmonths)                         90
Financial Controller (3 manmonths)                        30
Senior Forest Planner (9 manmonths)                       90
Procurement Manager (9 manmonths)                         90
Building Supervisor (3 manmonths)                         30
3 FWD vehicles (US$10,000 each)                           30
Vehicle operating costs                                    9
Subtotal     369
Preliminary Transport Equipment
2 4WD vehicles (1000 cc) (US$11,000)                      22
18 motorcycles (US$1,650)                                 84
36 bicycles (US$140)                                       5
Vehicle operating costs                                    5
Motorcycle operating costs                                13
129
Preliminary Field Eqgipment
Nursery equipment:  75 units a/ (US$76)                    6
Measuration equipment:  30 unIts b/ (US$640)              19
Forest activity equipment:  600 units c/ (US$22)          13
38
a/ Includes 4 hoes, 2 watering cans, 2 trowels, 7 kg polythene tubing.
h/  Includes 2 compasses, 2 diameter tapest 20 10-meter taps, 2 clinometers
and marketing equipment.
c/ Hoes, pangas, files, axes, etc.



- 38 -
Annex 2
Tabl=e1
Page 2
Cost (US$000)
Preliminary Office Equipment
5 typewriters (US$580)                                         3
20 desk calculators (US$18)                                    3.5
1 duplicating machine (US$500)                                 0.5
6 office furniture sets (US$380)                               2
2 personal computers                                          10.0
1 zerox machiner                                               5.0
24.0
Repairs to Office                                             25.0
Subtotal           216.0
Start-up Social Forestry Activities
a)   Vehicles
3 large 4-WD station wagons                              49.5
Spares @ 20                                             10.0
59.5
b)   Operating Cost                                           30.0
Subtotal            89.5



- 39 -
Annex 2
Table 1
Page 3
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Forest Inventory                                        Cost US$(000)
a) Vehicles and Equipment
3 4WD station wagons (US$11,000)                          33
2 4WD pickups (US$11,000)                                 22
Spares (20%)                                         -   10
20 tents (US$130)                                          2.6
60 sleeping bags (US$66)                                   4
20 compasses (US$40)                                       0.8
20 clinometers (US$35)                                     0.7
20 diameter tapes (US$20)                                  0.4
30 10-m tapes (US$23)                                      0.7
20 survey chains (US$35)                                   0.7
2 chain saws (US$600)                                      1.2
Miscellaneous tools and equipment                          1.2
2 desktop computers (512 K) (US$11,000)                   22
Software                                                  6.6
Miscellaneous drafting equipment a/                        1.7
Satellite imagery b/                                      19.4
Aerial photography c/                                     55
182.0
b) Recurrent Costs
Vehicle O&M                                               25
Overnight allowances                                      50
Labor                                                      5
Materials                                                  5
85
c)  Technical Assistance:  12 manmonths                      120
d)  Biomass Inventory Consultant                              15
Subtotal            402
a/ Includes 2 mirror stereoscopes and 5 pocket stereoscopes.
b/ A set consists of 14 plates covering the entire country (US$120/plate).
c/ Costed in Nairobi US$5/sq km. Approximately 700,000 ha need to be
covered including marginal high forest areas.



- 40 -
Annex 2
Table 1
Page 4
Timber Marketing Study                              Cost US$(0)0)
a) Mechanical wood products market analyst
(4 manmonths)                                       48
b)  Pulp market analyst (3 manmonths)                     36
c) Inventory of log milling and logging
equipment (2 man-months)                            24
Subtotal        108
Training: Rehabilitation of Nyabyeya
Forest School:
a)  Miscellaneous repairs and equipment                    9
b)  30-seater bus                                         30
c)  Four-WD pickup                                        15
Subtotal         50
Contingencies                           Subtotal           15.5
Total         1,250



- 41 -
Annex 2
Table 2
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Inflation and Exchange Rate Assumptions
1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-93
International
. Inflation (X)              10.4      3.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      3.5      3.5
Domestic
Inflation (X)             277.8     87.4      24.3     14.4      10.0     10.0      10.0
Constant Purchasing
Parity Exchange Rate   6,000    6,842    8,404    9,516   10,323   10,995   11,679



usags  x    a£13          "o se.i  raa&BX  0*1MW w*saa sissiesa UWAss ss ona"M iS                                 swis    1
t------ --------- -------- *------- ------  ------W- -t------ 88------ - ------ --l----
*4       s       t essu   @l ts'-   us   a          AS        11*55  sals   cus                              " $nos oa a..,a OW
us*  se gqX **WRessm 0163.98                448u.s   an* b6   ***"mss *NO100o asws                     SI2nUI   uass81
*      65        VmIl  V11111   %1;ST   Os          Os       31516**6S1 0 IS 10919IR                   S1I1011111000111= 5M0
31~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ StI5C& 9 til Ii"M8$X                                           t  et   w'w8W' II n   u t01IW8                                               .UN tA3 Q
a                I WS   ow        I'M       a       a        ours   ewI   owis  DKh Db,w.  .3@...D
.a     to        o-sual 311           1 na          a LB      5     61 4 S*NN n f6615ll    SLIM  asiun  1)o4
0      - -   -      -       - -      .. ..  -       -        1       - - - ---   ----     -i ---u
*  -         &1U~~tw          A 18      *                 316    .          5e'3                            63661163532 I
61  13       613.9l"  1 8£Islo36t1  $L'I3 L£ I'm* VONWhllU                                                  mmIO    I1)0191I
0U     OS        61 IP £1         S         et8     a OS1-11           I *01t   3I                         30w il miO 10
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                       A *m   *+  a IM    II&                        Ft St  InZ 'PSI  0                             ta1
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Itit alsl                                                                                                                       Sllltlt it I    01IN        KIt  tv090330
I1     33        1101I  9  101. a1          LI      63 ll  ILOSIM O16*    11                                        $" mm 
*u---- -g$------- B------- -------S -------- ---- *------ *"-------g-- --------- -g--"----
*                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    Kg  #110   1 5    03K   C I  OSn    3365      otsml   SIM$,                          6og0V IUhl  U"
6      94        ITN't o-&&ll  Vt-   I"             9        9-st&  911001   @t@-t                     53tJWY1v ttiilall l}}
I                sta      I 3       £'       ct    a         I'm1I 9  Io  It  VWel                                    "11 3 11111 Is
a       KL       tug'  3118. 61 sl1                 as  0£     15     31016111 06311119                    S1)0siS50 ivwos36q
I   aias         s 101   SI   wues* I-              AS       $         I It      *i                  8un 
a      to        alo 1|     It" It  Ai      4       to Uvl   Al's   Was It                                           mmm   I  
1      Is        116.6p $IAS   flito    et          u                 IIS 115  011 1390                              535131
*           61 9£18       £*      0191      9       U        0139    833.    SIMI                     61111511A 3  31631 I
a1     a         £3116   110 ClT            U      U Ca               $`111:11 0163                      1 2631S)Si      41 11
- - --- -.- ,-- -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -.- --- - -- -- -- .- -- -.---- - -- -,- --- -.- .---.-.- - -- ----- -- -- -- -- -
I      a . 165            Ato    .1         8       ao       SIM       615     036                               lt 1amO I
*      5o        1      1`16181   £131      it      as       £16111119  LL       @1D1                                1153 1t $   "am  I
P  So        11631  #I"   I' &00                Os 0     333636  51'n11  35*1                                     13133 I
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u  IV~ g 
. . 010. - £ .                               - -   - - ----_ -       -            6 ------------------ - -----
I  OS        1*0    91391519            8       OS      "Digit   81St1*6171516
A 5AI   ISM $111011=  MINIM- U
ISBFNM wilwiiiil I-- ANISSIMr Uses



elm*owl             I  #tu t    sssos  I              ss sOeS   `W     AU                                                u
-0-K---   ---- -         u---   ------ s -- ---- -   -- s- -e - n- -- ---- -stow    -
tim t4I                     tiSt      4 It * t   t S    A*S 1  Io'tS -                          using -S uu
tILl *1I    'UsI OsIn 6TM1  I 4WC Is t I             aW V   5 55 t A                                                 I Mf 
$vot          Uti    ,"t tmo         111    '          lal'l IM's I've           n-inmM          A     4 00lwil    I' sI 
s-ug:    pgss s-s VW0  lul    in    VIN't su *30%via    tiers  ussc                               um unu srn.me as
<~~~~~~~~~~~in                                      tw s   sit's  sotW's ess.  s-wa.  cus.  a-U'  SiN                                            isla   iwuu   i F
eslug    elms'ss  *o   slattw    Vles'  VWm   taut'  s-s  -                     *11iSUUiitdSSKiISU    1 
rIsU's     s  lsait  srest  sut   V"    s-r's tw`            'su s  iSs'       m     lutlum smu 1s     1 =ums ieto      I
misosmussum 0          u      iu Win -a WU  *
s-aut      l tIsue   tcs Ittstt o.a 's  Sim's  *5W.: titti  IIbO.'5                                   Ism    ass e'es-W5
tow      u-sat   rs        is    us        #      s C      eas'    uIaI s                                 DI aMa  Ism   I
0-sit.:   sues I      us s   IN Iis.   Ius": tIm    oursi Ilo ties   sues                                 uLam  INS    -
via'   uas' s       -ou04Ct's  S Ists'   -r'as It fito logst's@*' oval                            UUWo IsmmS "050  It
Alm      slm's  t9s        tes     it t * 9 t" m   *in    flow'sa. -                                   usv     WMi
iii ------ i;ss   ---- sags's ----- cut ----tug ---- tim    tin    vital - ------       SKINl N                    A    I
U*91919   *U@e t31618   alluls elm's   tug's aws-*        1$aoll                               alUltS U -I1
tSS*flfl. Sn.Ss*a3  S1tan.... .Sflnn slan't  An.'t t. 'tf   n.m".. slnlo                                          S o
&t U     9*0,   elm"    ru              t        WCt   S-U     Itm     -                              StMtlUl AWN 1l"01t
MtnitOtitOJ    _        *$i
'W's  t i S 
* -ssZss ws-$as  $ -slS --$   -su-**g s--g-r --   ---- -wa-  .a----
d10 L.1Min   *sfew
531MW StOs5titum   A_LSUS 155
"Om



1um FW9EST7 RENABLuTSTt"il tacI
Projet Comaqts b year
T*tltltelgH|5  Cctta9 1 co                                     totels rltii a tce
G. SL Wt I I Io                                                      n  ' 000 
0      1        2       2        4       5        6     tota         0       I      2       3      4       S       6    Total
*. 1316  FIUOR  ttt@t
I. 119-9mm fKUElooS/PO
P*TtI37iU U9IUItlITATIU/twf                          -  ,20. S   553.    814.4  1,252.4 *. 457  1.8*4. S  0,23a.3         -  4t9.1   7.!   91.1  131.0  132.1  144.3  1. 04 I
S*-lotal tam  f1tt6                                        - S.20S.3  t53.6   674.4  t.s2.4  1.4sLr  t.?64.8   9.233.3          -  46.t1  77.6   91.9  131.0  132.?   44.3  I.046?
t. Of( t7EOR OPEtTlI0U                               17.9  5.525.5 7t741.8 6,902.2 1t,434. t2, t120.1 1t,714.0   16.0t I   3.0  801.6  921.2   U3.1 t.010.6 1,1 02.3 1,U41.1 6 169.2
2. NO  CTtVtTtES                                  1,140.4 2,953.3 4,120.2 4, 46.7  6 4097  7 t,t6 4 6 10. 9 S3t,S4.5   t9t.f  431.7  490.3  4966   620. 5  6d. 5  579.?  3,46 .0
3. AMltOttESTRY 90115T3ATI03 5E1M85                     -   2t.5   325.4    43.6    49.0        a 2    31.5    406.7         -   31.0    4.2    4.6    4.7    3.2    2.7    50.4
St-total f1t IOCEStS?                                t. I6T.  6.60". I It.897.2 13,2.6 186".$ M36I.r 22,914  94,JM2    194.5 1.2r0.3 1,415.? It,s39    t.9.9 110.0s eM2.013.15 96i8.?
I. 3876201 FOES  111siE3  UwiUiSLIT*10
___________________ ____________________
t. 3Tt73t FOUlS? ttUt961                                -  1.719.0 t,632.2   7T4 I ,0 91t.2  0,  396. 11t,341.7 5,t J01.2    - 1,049.3  931.I 1,021. t 1,154.4  345.6  971.6 s 073. 9
t 3tUT1t FOREST IMNSWATIO                               -   646L4 1,524.9  1,252.S  t., 44.8  13Ma0  1,656.3 S  ,41L.7       -   3283  1t1.4  13t.6  142.S  124.4   1589   677.0
3. FOES?3T 1t3t3                                  2,t141.5  1,25t.2   63. 4    21.5    19.?        -       -  4.307.3   356.9  182.9   t3. 9    2.3    1.9         -       -   647.9
5*-otal 36103*1. N4MIR  _IAM.IT EIMIUTAlONW         2,141.5  S.36.s 10t230.4 10.tM.2 13,401.7 11.4,6 13,204.0  Tt,11S.3   35S9 1,370.S 1.217.3 1,154.1  ,26.2K   107.0 1t,130.5  T.758.
*. 1300SI781 SlFtIOOS PLtOTTII  3EMILITt?ltN              - 4.43.0  2t953.9 3L571.  4,092.1 3a919.6 4,4t2.4   23659,0         -  722.s  351.5   m.9  392.5  s5s.5  377.6  2,576 7
E FORMT EP*USRTT hENMILI?TTION
t. LO6ISTICIStP00                                   937.  13,002.3  7,981.3  4,6t4.9 6 I93.4  7,977.2 2t,010.2  6t76.    156.2 1,900.S  949.?  491.3  599.6   75.5s 1.796.9  s,621.9
2. P1.983it36lM   11_E1t                          2,792.3 4,20t1.3 9 ,f2   5. 4660 1o 6t  0   Sit. 5   417.2 20,193.8   42 4  614. t  5961 S4. 6   104.9   34.5   35.7  2,507.3
3. KS1"                                                 -       .0   614.7   327.2   229.R   328.8   257.6  2.017.2          -  131.3   969    34.4   22.23   3.5   22.1   342.4
__4-tot_l FOLS?  OT1T REWItITAT11                    3.T29. 4 1S,L 1.5  1822.5 o. 40. t *.3 2. 3 6 74.5 21 ss6. 2 K  Ml.66   821. 6 2,6 S48 t, 844.7 1, 10 .2  60. 0  795. S t.5S7  9.471.s
F. 1*33
t. RENBlUIT7TIO OF 3t718rtr7  FOIEST #EttE          530.  3,6 S.   9 2, 87 4 2,549 9  3,0 6.  S O.14.  3,645 3 S, 3  t9,4   S3  328. 7  337.6  26L 0  m. 7   274.1  329.2 2. t22.6 
2. 3100 ISTIttlZATI  - 31U8                             - 2,784.2  1.6&  1,306.68   133.4   18. 4    149.7  6T405.3          -  40L 9   219.1  137.3   12.9   it6S   12.8   6S 5
S*-Total Ttli31ti                                      530.0 S,40t.0 4,64.2  3,666.8  3,16iS 3,10S.6 3,9t5.0 25.82.2    86.2  935.d  557.4  405 .   309.60  290.9  342.1  2.92 .2
TOtal PtlWECt COStS                                    7,5SS6  50,7M.1 44,241.9 43,000.8 47,232.4 4439.9 St.49.2300,7S3.5  1,281.4 74138 S.264.3 4.525.04.5T4.6 4,405.S 5S654.9 3.330.5
:220, 1987  1ea1.04  atsu-g 9 ....... .. 2.s ... ...... St           SUDS.0 CS209 ......  *us... *S    .....            to ...
---1   - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - --2- - - --0--,       - -- --t- -- - - - - -- - - - - -- --t-- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - -    -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -



U-
usm  rmEstalr  zLU*T[m  _:1m
ftiseref  Pla 3tt tI_s   .
I5          EECt        8mll9        t211          MP 11111t mb              tet
___-  -----  ----- - -_---- --_--_-------  ----------- -----------      -----      ----               tol feln. Ot fee S
tws t  IS _   u  t  S   _         s   burnt S   hmmt          S     ,  S              2   FOP. EXA.    t_Sel       Tes
asn.. usca *W  5c. ** a# n *saue*.WD an.* a.m, sacs nBZA ..won us"ssa mosc SWnmUS" .. ascamflsWXnv  @mseuaaaS.anaa .n.n
. CIVIL mm                           1t 4462 30.9  1t841.7 3.4 1,31.2   ?       -   -        -   -       .  0.0  4.*0. 1M 4 .0  916.2            813.9        -
a VMICtES                            3,52. .6 t1.2f.S6)0  1.814025 -4           -                            C 0.0  IL0 350.  16 t1    4236.9  2.01tOtt
C EgIPNEIT thl                           "4.30.6   50.8 230   40. 1 I4 4        -   -        -   -      0.0 0.0   3t28    6.5    2t 8.8          45.0         -
.   mtat as Tnuu                     t2741.2 43.'  1,064.8 W6N t1.UL.28         -   -    M711.          0.0  0.0 t 622L.  tao9    3 I1. 2       1.1016        -
L r 1t18                                11.6 4.4      l9 0.t        -   -  111.3 t.2  1.466. 64.8         -       -  1m. 4  52      310.o      1.no.6         -
F. TUAE9MS                             106.3  .2   264200 9O      2    5 6.     -   -        -   -    3.4 2*4         42.                                     -
8. 00196111 U ttl4TEUlltE            2,106.2 45.0 .3 t OIL t16.   9S6L1 t6      -   -        -   - I,33L.0 22.1 .L00 .  t1 t    4.45.5          1. t20 t1   46.0
IL ESTALESUIE   8 MIAUTEIE TB LU LA    424.2 21.4   930.2 460   40L 3 20.3      -                     226.0 11.4  l,L2     L0                  t19OL          -
I. STrf fALLOICS                       1.S  l.t    StL2 2.    I63.8 tt.         -   -      -     - t.7T45LS 2I0t$      1 " .3 IL               2,10  1        -
Tetal  t_rsnut                        12,46.26.  1.041.8t21.  ts.o4.2.   11.3 0.5 t2,22  6.8 3.24.10.  33,.504.    21,812.2                      11.2322    4.0
FAY  , t18?  13:04
3EST }COPIES
AVAI LA13LE
TO  THE END



ama P465    Coat 6i4991ff  F
- Its~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mIM
Uctot ted sat 1*..t...c.............                                   .....          ......
fait                                   2.fl.. J.                                                                         lit.e   *n.
I. 946.11469 mis ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 1410                                           t
6112146  UsagE  mCi           5        .       .       .        .       .        S      3        -   33                           3?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41.on111,  S   4.1I
mItuinpI,9u  inst   -  g    .       -        .       .       .        c   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  -             -  4.*                          *    I.et -  t* -     . .      I.S
9Ih~~~  ISV initttitin        .kw                                                                                        9514 It    m  .1.91..1it' Is  R      .2  L *4.S                          U.S9IL   S M
MM.          Roec m                               .                        .,M                                       .4        1. 4                           34     .   1                                1
scU9lUm.Smu          .                .       .        -       .       -        *      4.46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LS  -    I       1.?                                          .
*  .  .  .      .       .        *   ,a,m   ~~~~W                 ..   ..   .. . .   ...~                                    94
m9wc1531i95        .                .       .       5        .       .        93     4.935    . 94~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~... ... .... ......... .  .  $...... .... ...  .. ... .....
usc" Ft..  am                                                                                                                       A&.  .     0.0 LI33       * I31 $O       W      S&OI.   L           *2    1.6
............SU...                                                                                                                    .5 . .4444  .                          9      .       49    .5     .      .
4.9*9    -45.3    11.15    . .4345              . 5.
Ia~~t609 a.t.m  a mitsui                                                                             *124.9    .   .91, 4.5   .g~~~~~~4    .~4.3    .   . 94.5  4.9    -  354.? la
C .m963   Wmisl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                                 s4.
. ....  ............  .. ...                       ... ... . .. ..      - .cI..-
4. S3UUT  imi JO                            .   3.3m50MI=    4.4  4910  59.9    i4.n   M30          2.991-        3          1.8 5   i.e  s.c  as1  as4.5 t        4.1t.2 91.4  I.1  m4l i1ts   Us
9.959 957**9    35                                                                                               '34~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n on "O Lo  oo In. .    39.1i     i 34.96.?  44.1   !~ 432341  03l2 43.9  9.2t  39.4 t3   34.2
Idi-letl UMM  A                                                                                     toLo IL   11.3 L$ 264 ..fL I itSsnIL nf    n.4 nfL. fifl5                  10
3.965935                                -                940    060 3.406.0    66                 30.6    9*60          5M      -   .  3.4 94.  0.4*4 934  4                t,U.   4534931SI                 3.
1*4.9.9913115080                                                                                                . 94~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  II    &  t  . .13. I 1.9I49. I1.9I24.3 I1~   .  ti.  19.  12.3    1    3.
Sf i         "M                                                                                                                 .... ..... .... .... ... .... .5 ..6....  .... ...- 4.0..... 4.  1.0 ..1 ... . .----0-



lm;gnwm   um                         a*                       itos              m9       No      km                   *     *,5 .S,0.25.253   co                o*  3.ttt& Sait S?                       g.s
ain       msu    ~     s   s                            -                4        ,        ,'       I ,      ,                  ' MS            t   SC- . et.a,. I *.  ,t  Ii I.   -              - t   I  atk tI'a  
WIIU~~~~US  is      -    5    0    5    S    5    5    5   tIM   :3.33.353~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;1T.5 ~'T  "w   -.!!'~    '~                                                          . ----
tool Sim.#IL*MK i                                                                                                                                                      SL.?    as@gM. I. tiet    I 1i*.0  t   U1.? tI.)  iS 1.03.
. . ...................................................  .  ..................................n. . ....e.                                                            n...n... . .............
A   be   noU  som         mtsub  td    US 3.56. ede  1Il56. low Itm.' tinimte                      bow 1*0.5            I.ft  
ieee. m1m. e kfm                                31566ww~. we I =-*           S t    .*           m     t
s  o     w 1*1     53.   Sm1.         CMn
Al53 MOW   urWn I4L4
---- --- ------------------------------------ -    -    ---- --- ------       - --  -------- ------      ------   - ---- ------- ------- ---- --- -----  ----- ----   -   -  --  -----   -  ---    ------   -   ----



0  1  2       s        4       1        6~1*1  Ut-I           wtg s:.l                                                                 3 4   I     0    a
m intim smtn ~ ~    ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        e.    *
OK&  so     so       IS       go    11                                      to     L      I     I. ~t IL                   .     . s       SAt  ma *uis 0
PI                             3        4       1        0      leal        tg0    U                    I,  SS    I   S   ll                3      3 VSSee
OK                                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~nt  fl  n.tnnta.te   tn   cn Is n flu   IL.  f I'    a 
in                             VW        go~~~~~~i    LI  S.T  01  1W1   .1  'L        Ca3  t.3  t.o  to.9 1. to              0.     1
mat~                                                                                                              lal  It    L  :  :  :  It      .60 3   0.  0.4    *1  4.33O l, .Is  *IL        3:1.e
sigmurons                                      us9                                        3 is       .        is03   .   0.1 .1a *1   9.                                    IL30I*34.0.3 0.9                       0.1
Urn,                                   a.       U       as       as       us s               -        is 1            IL.30. SO .L  0.3  *    03 L$I.?   0.   0.   0.   a.   0.   94                   
.ww-                                                                                                          as                                                        .  U U      i  - 343430.4 434 -.....3 S .3.Ig...  ...
in511   mem111 w
03         - I3 .I0. mm.3  0.   .3                                                                                                                                 314 161311   .    .    . 
-  i       is                is       i                                        0900 331.    .    .                                  I1-L  .   1.0  II   2.?  I.11  M0to
us                                       us       .m       us       ,        us                *is         t,          0.u,o*33.h3.,   1.1   III                -0M.M   M6Am  L.10S01.S              I I
-   s        s       is 112  to       in        In                              IL   a   111   LI    III.1      0.      -0.6 a.0   L.4  1.4  L 4   CS4    to
31~~~~~3                 -       is       is      is       is       is      i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ in s   M*    0.3  ILL4  L.0  0.4  0L.3   3.1        'L 0.3  .4  0.9  0    0.6  0.     3-
MINOR.                                     313 M*   i                 Ms u     so      -m       2.11        pM      -    3.3        4       3.43.3    11.          S3.33.1*t*L   .               I     Me
1*-legal   511133 0363 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      as  U.S  ~~~~~~~ 6.0  U~~~~.S  1.1....    . ..... ..10.1  6.43..6.. ..t... ..3  1..3..
* urn. mI   - nF          mM                                                                                                           L        L     L     L    L    L  L          1.    S*3L        S201.    1.
KI IIW "PM  p-36                                                                                   3  gm                                                                                                                   co314t.4.  1.01* 03.3.*3 3 a
0. tins -  mu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ......... ...
wtsfis s               an                                                   0       O       i         U         33              to   a.    .   3333*3*                  .       -1       .      Iu SL$  4.4 IN.*  31.
1*-legal 1s13.363131131.                                                                                          -  0.1~~~~~~~~~~~a  0    M 0  i  i  a    to1  S.6  as  3.2t 0 110 -1.410t  L.,  as  &*  *.O  213   1
~~~~-wegat mum                                                                                                    6.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  M Se      fSe  fL 403 .9   to ItoIl3to  La10. to .3  L.  6.3 st  it &Is    Csl  SI.
0. 631515~~~~~~~sJs1.9M                                                                                                                                                                                         19
USIfhll                     -        -                -                 .          ,   at.us   13.0    -    -    -    -  a.    -   a.e   e.s    -    -    -    . 31.3    -   6.3~----- -. ....... ........ ... .........
PhnIUa.1          3        -        -        -        3        .        -         4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~519   3.1  -    -    - 6.1  -    -   6.3   6.3            -    - 31.?    -    -L  93.0.1  SL    IL  -     - -     -11.
1s11351$WsW        ii        -       u        -       .~~~~~~~  -        -        a      e.~~~~u   as    - as       - a,    -    -   as   at             a.s    - 31.3    -    -   usSte.Lt P1,   -  
01111333            5        10       U        30      30       30        .        us        us    3.0  3.6  3.6  3.9  3.4  3.6    -   13.1   3.3  3.4  3.1  3.3  3.6  3.1 W.on  II341.3.1L 3 .     .     .   .,  St
mis ausn "co.                                                                          .                           .a.co11   .    3a. is                                6.3IL    Me3  3.011.   0.  3.6 3               .9I
1*-legal 91311343                                                                                                    U3.3  3.5 35.1  *1  01.3 00.1    - 9)   MItM  .    NsO   *46.   0.06.4  6.4          30.91



w Xtttn0ot1tCt t_tgm
I.... ... ... ..  .......
e  nmus,p,,u II s&#  u                                                                                                                                                                                         ? s, 
psrgnsm,wt(                            u.,             -                 -        *         -        4         -         nt    n35 -m                   - aJ tS     -0e3       -   ao.           tOe    -1tO        -tOS O          n11
(ttSCF c3 teott3 _                                                                                                                                                               to*  -  *  *  -  n  t 1 .  s __ -    X  -    't    -    3  -  -    7?  t O  
-t    pt 1                              usetEe    tittIt                                                                                      ' t-  O    - N 3    31* 7.  -  43   -    0.0 110    - N               . t   0   t#0 *     3 
NISC. WF114 tooU1                                      .                                                       -          it     3.m         -3           3              31                    3             .7     -   .0           0 2
is10      -    S1  43  1. A          43.1        St t        43t    3  IS%       -    4 6
0. fitJf3t1l
S    call                         S_-MOW -                   3        -                                                i     ut X         - ne0         I&$ t        4t6    -   6?        - IS.4      - 19.1     - 13.4    -   ".I
risIuy   VuTIM fS&                                         go        oe       te       3         #5       #00        60         as0       -! S- *   to Mt  7 tI  la I t         tI   5 4  -7.4 n    D.? 31.0  33   1 "t  n     2 e40    M
1b-1ot.  tnt6t3txi                                                                                                                             - n)6 s    I to  3    1  30 tO1 *1ne01o mn       - 130e a67  33.3 n35  31 S. ao    mn
I 1b-313l  835101U5                                                                                                                                        Saf,t   361.9".I                         i$20   1.9            3      * 1 
" tOStitt aStsttttt
_____. ...... . ._....... _..   _   ..
t 313513ufls
;;;iic------                       1W                      is        i2       as       it        It                  TR1    13.35          31 3  jai 313  Si 3 313  31 a   o1                3. 5.0 - 1D3as.0I3a S? St 33    33434
s0tsvl3l35oAn rC 0                  so                     n1 Is               It       it        is       a           3 n    M.0         -  mto  mu  ne L     itSao n a  smO    us N              no *3   It3  MI as         I 1n
531100usmi                    mm-                     I         S        15       #        a3        a          a       3.46       - 30  310  36.  36.5  31.0a             S.0W  310   t1. -mm   m       mam      a  s   16. a
33w                 t.t                                     S s      n         n                  n        n n                T.46        - sL       *0  10  0 e         *e1011   3300          41 e4474    .0*  4  44 31.I  ".4
t_w      rIM                        an                      a3       it        as       Is        la       a          13      Lou        .      tO    O iA t4 t O e  1    tO    tZ            4 0  as    |  to0  *.   t* 43a    ft I
SiCtm,t ST                          am                                a         sttE#3                                          4         - fttoe ItS  t2o   a. t4.      t   40.0         -    3 m. 7.3  7.6  0.1 tat4      ? m.    13
# 0s1UIS                         3 Wm                    a        Io        110      op        6D       00         300                 -3to   30   3.0  10   &0   10    6.0                4.7t  3.0  30   SI  13   &S   13.1
t_CD16355                   013             -       n5        n5       n5        nt       n3        nS        1n       1.4G       - Q.0  QO  ft    3 e0  n.e  3.o   n             -   L1  3.0   It  tt .   4    43    23 o
tVE                                                                                                                                   ---         _! ttS0    .. .   ... n  ----   -- - -    .. .    .....   .....   ... .   .. .   .....   .... ...t tt5*t it       t          
10              t                                                                                                                           - ,aene.e  tao ns.o ttO    6.is#LS5fts  4M.9     - I  14 1.? M6.* 107.0 11as t..0  M.   In.e
"mmI 6113m
;i6iii; -----------                                 #5       #         IS       #3       as        It         12      S.4        -t 310   30 3    Z.*  #3.0  #0   is3.1              W13  33.5  3164 343  501  360   340.4
mpasseou t                                                  a                   3        1   It as                              an        -.     to         .*   CO   tot.    1.0..           .,S..     ?._3     I *t a6t -1 18
vm  U1I at O        WM-o                                     6        #3       a3       #3        II       it         a       4.110       -5.3   10  35   3.0  IL$  0.0   5.3             -t1.2  WO   28.9   MS0.1320   too.89
VW(3 to-mos                                         -W                                  is 6               Ss        to          M    .... .3 - ,4 14.6  4   .4  . t    154    33.4           &I  o  011061 0.1.Ott.? I   43
s.-.,#Miu   surnWM                                                                                                                     - 31   3.0  310,* S-te*    0 si..-330 --1a6.6-9--- -- 10304.  U.S 13- 5... 3  3- .. 0
S*-te41 .                                                         I        D         "        ttt St O SStS t t -   _  _              -Ja7    tte tortr r.  34.0   :3.21016Iooe                                 to  mi  311 tr t    t   ttn. s
tttttSVJ too    00    M   te nts  tn, &t vtZe}tt .....  !....^,,. .....   .....   .....   .....   .......                                                                                      .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....    ! ti.|t......t-
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 3. It.3 i37.                       -  11S         4.          14#4.
t,a-lto#.  105151MSIIS                                                                                                                         *13533.,11731?mam).1O3--16.-  71121  161I !!0. 26.4 to. I3.
totat OWS.4of COSIS                                                                                       ML$ SPIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta    510 E. 341.5 480.1 040.036.33.*5.6   M3330 4300a63.35961.1 W- S" 4 3. M30
s 7Wtett. lttet ............... S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ......... . ....
.. 55.3.1..7..
a  wmas 66511
4663t7tt5                             to        St"*   "Low   10000    "LO"   16.00    tO16              #4.0       I0t 400    t          tkt 314  31.4  3,14   14  364  314 t t7   14.1  3_.,te* 3         4 t S3   33,  34to0  III 3)
$00 c OP 651t011                      la        21.60     4.00 am   3.L5    433       41,3001  43113     41.3        6.400          I    as  to3  as  3.0   Cs  1S  1S   61.0   1. 1. 7.3 .   10   80s  03   to   St. *2
6000155566 r Cu3                      01         300   150.%40   13.4    #316    #5.000   1.0    50               #.nt.o.           0    10    20  11.6  #1.6  1.0 WI .0 I$  I    Is.    10  M$.0   4 t 3.5  StS    48 "S    .M   33 2
6111173                               p.             so       30       40        10       40        so       40         lo        "a6    as  1?   12  a,7   I  3 at1  3    at   14   &7   C.5  0.0  1.0  0a   I     T
.                                                                                                          . .   .  . ..  . .  . . ... .. . .... ... ... . . . .. . . ... . . . .. ... . .. .......... ........... . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  I   . . . . . .  . .   . . . .   . . . . .
#00.1633351467                                                                                                                               31t- i.0 113  11f0  113  11 a 1%.2  616    M 46.5   311  .3 36 S.  10U3SS?0  S?. S5.4        M 
Ulo  tCm     COST _ f  at  nol e         t3_ bi**     t_ o                1     
M.0.31I 112 10" a 1 MLS110 I   ML5   1,.3 0 3t.3  00.3 2     o S0.     at1 I7 S".0   3 4P03
Je ^ d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a   taJt 333.l_tt_ I_ dtal _ St d tS   dt.43. 6.436056.02.  d.
to a - H sIl .             I Mt0.Ws t*   to t - sIlO 4I0.4  %$ts. Witl 4      wI10Su11600Goflval   W  .
U of pJl  wIs dlb                O cwo,=           . of                          Eote olhQ. M#t 1M  of
531005      "W366110  *MIN" ca VoN. cost
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -  - - - - - - - - - - - - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
vo730 W   6 "W    It"



cum    .-   ,S    u
table M.nt fM a
0684     0       8         1         3        4         0        5       total      bIAt bt  0    4    1    2    4    1    11.4.8%   0               4    2    2        4      0       S   IOU?l
......t....t                                                                                                                                                        fn tt.a.,.                    nt               at
M nu  urs "mwtmt
Mt mm  4M.e                                    1        2         1         2        2        U           54        121          .4t o O.0.60 to0.081.4              &S        C - 4 .60.t    t.o    0.0           a4    6t
- -                                      480~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  no  wS                   onU       S. 015       to         *. 4   S. I  8.4  2.    ..2         88I0. -M   G.6  8.4 2.          .1    2.4    4.1    444 
US                        21*~~~~~~~~~~n      la88     no0        M         so       U        on        3.16         8?    -00.14o .4   .1  L.22.1                  tL     O -0        .4   to    2.4    I.s    3.4   41.1
an                                             -       21        a1        a1       S1        S1       too        U           W          0.1  0.8  0.4t  0.1  0.1  0.1    *.I          a0.4   04   0.2    0.2    02        0.0    1.4
v0M11k                 goo*            a~- 2         21        a1       M3       2M        M2          M          W          0.8   0.   Q. 1  0.4  t.4  0.        t.4    -  0.   0.4  0.2    0.S    o.          0.4    8.4
as                 4ah~-                me42     408      US        ml    #.W 54           4.1U     11,       30         0.08.56to4.o0to0to    4.4 I                     to   I I  C        t.o    to6   a.s    a
1Mm                      ~~~~4140             so2       21        04        21       v4       "      S  O            is    - L I .20. a5I2Cs2 . I0.S                 4.4        a.8.2S 2           0.      02    0.0    8.I
subU                    a6       ST        2         P        "M         844        no        1.213   .2 #S   .3  1.30.0            84.0    -a846                  i.      .        s    $4.1,
no= Om                                            a~~~~   2 2  21        a        a         a          88          I         0.   I 0.   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    C.2                      to.8 08 .  t.o          to0.   0.2I
m8a uinit                                               isi   8   .                                                is        S"      * 4         -0.        -.2t        -    0.?    - .4        -0. I.                              .
SU?IUSW                                               to4      is        U                  0         8          U         U    ..    45 82    .         .0  8.4  2.4    400           4.4  4.    .        .      30     38     8.
US IM spgt, mUan                                                                                                                             1.8    .   2.0  43.  80.1  210    44.? v     0.4C     0.0 3.   its   gas    as.I,  .L
ftstmets                                       M~~0.40 li                       to1.3 1.8  M.2     LOWU          U        - *6.21  .0   a.   &S  0.t  22.    -6                  126.0        4.      as.    ml,  4M.0
Inausetmai                                                                                   no S  0 22 2  US    8.8114       M5                                              I3230 44 40  04 a   .   0.1  1to    0.3    0.0    t.o   si:
mom  ammia                                        .2      0432.3                        .3         3.10         321  &83                   13.      t 801,  460S         4123.0  31.    aS    ats   2i.s
1*4051 ama. nirn,mt                                                                                                       - 15.8  21.4  81.?A,   &130 M  &430 M  3  IL   P.?  03.0  6.W I3.0    - 0.   4.0  0V.?   IL?  810.   13.2 8.
30 Pt      loopI.m                             -                  8         8                  4         8          81   64.016    -   .48.3  48.2  88.2  6.2  48.3  113.2   - 6.   40.0  82.1    e.O   asL    I0.,    *
mmml,              mdi         -       00       ~~~       ~~~      ~~       ~~~~~~~44  a1    US 44 U         MS     -IL8   0.S 4e 0.4ML% t2. 4    IL$.0                *0     I.,80.2      88.181.480.02.4
mUs Urn  mdi  -   -        .        .         -        .         .           -               - 31.0 P.O  88.6  80.4  81.0  44.4  800.2    - 00.?  01.1  ao    as    u.s   800.0 2OLT3.0 S   1.4   3L  SL~  Lo   Sa
910t1440.i man                                                                                                                            214440*             s2. i.           1.           sai   as    mao            a    m    i.243.e.
0. 218130US41  2105
Will~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.3                                                            ML                     a,M.   Ls IA ?oM$  w-I. tM
212mm  my
mtin4S0 glint  mit  .  4)  81        81       to        81        80         44      0.216     - 41.2  444  84.4  44.4  40.4  444    21.1    - 20.1 of*0.  *3        80.0   80.0    *0   1444CS    Cs  s    0.3    1.
44t6 N3182. mussiU
-  5        8       ~~        ~    ~ ~             ~~2  8           ".643         0.0  91. LS 0.0  5.    I6  2.0    8         -0.6   4.0  4.  .0    3. ? 3. 0 t            22.8
1*-hill IUS 4232201(21121821                                                                            0.6  1.3  0.0   20   3.3  2.6   21.1    -  0.0  2.0  4.8    3.6    3.4    3.6 2o2.ois42.    W$  o   LO ct    is LT    38    W.
.,aThva. Mn 4                                                 44        44       41        41        42        IGS      2.6841    .     -t            ILI '* i   ILI   62.4   -            L -moas    21.0      4."LS
to-Kona142802



_ _u                          m-~o                  24         e        t        50        U                   U4       1.407    *     ta at           41 to         -    1.5      * t5?1,          .tte  an      as$            W.1
it   Stp t. 4 1 *                                                                           -I -                                  I S    .4. 4.t.*  &4                             *     -           - -S
_t.=
531?                          _ _ -ail               -       'U        _         _ m                Z         S.          To      * as as        Usas dU  11  *5   12 1s     61  U.  -    -7 .   at    So.t Itt I         2S      M.0
64 i.i  M5 a32  W4.0  27          i  t;at   T;  ;W; U;.S 'W; -,;W;                      4.
...... .......  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ....... .... .................... ....... ....... ....... ..............
"talat            u                                                                                                                    2.4n11 at           . a                                                      2      .2 au  z .s    4.St. iS? t. *tt   u.s   0 ta
is.          cops
_                     i               q,"e      ",        ", in^ l  tUe    m         *t.m        aim"            X     - a.s  s.   tt.t  a.   n.  as    ti.t            -  64.  ztg   as.    $**        eg    *t 
NUOmPImi                                          42.5      OO U.U       an   Sam        06,11    I8 6.e        tm            I,S as                    it te  2M.  21.5   VS.1      -   t.  It.l  St      as        ,    a'   o
SWCcMSlowM   '                                                        is - f                                                               Q_         tt. t. -   is. sa asi  iaI as at as   a    n    a    nat
WIt alUl   taL  .bI                                                                                                                                                  L;K
aloom s It   to       tL                   M    OK a     21        1VLM    $1,01   "iAm          amenM            S         as  it.1  we 32.21 27.1 asl   in4.               W.o ta, 21          a04   es1    et$  3me
P._0.               n                           IRS       "7        its        "I         15     -  a.o   tt  4.4 tC     1.   1V .tt            1      .   3._ tt          t *n    to    I. nI
........... ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        .
as    ta    asK Gta   sa   au,  tea.         -as        21.         vet er   gas           as
,.... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ...... .... ..... ..... ..... ......... ....... ....... .. ..................
$_tl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~3. ttt t_t-  L   W0UI                                                                                          OS1110111                       "t0.    L
mggin_                                                                                                                              -  at   .t.t  *2   21.2 Ws    t.1 a     1.?      - M.4  IL.0  P.5 I      .5.   52.3    at  tt.
........................ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      .... ..       ......       ..     . .. ...   ....  .. ...      ... ...     .... ....      .... ....
Otts iniua
m e n u                                                                                                                                      IW Lt t  It  U a.  . e a  s   as   e.g  St.   I  a,   a . at$    a0 " t    Ia   4s  a11 m
Isis? aalm  tsacm"  4t am    am    s.w    a.                                               'O aM              rn.9m,  up sp S tato                                   t .t asM    -*a a.                a a mis t  Iii_n    a       Ia
UST iK Ngg 4                      mm. -m                     mm       mm        amU.    mm5         1.28      IlLm           U         21.7  1.7    .   iLS  IL$   I  .ts211 M..61  1.: 7u.5    I.  00I I                   4    atM
te~~~~~~~~~~4   M.x Ot..  '°!.   ,.ztaw.t           tt            so.t tt *X St*; 2M 4
gs-tt. g  e  meitu                                   M         ow."ing                     ow      ko           ie          o         & U.S       LS L5.172St.? 1s.4   it.            toa tin   52.5    s. tagW          0.      f sIa
.......................... ................................................... .; ...... ... .. ..... ..... ....... .... . ... ..... ..... ....... ....... ... ... .......
i.t.t UmuuFOO mug     m- aamu.stt ..m    ins1 uta, t"Cs                                                                                                                                   -6.  m.g   tatS W-$         ep.0 "LO       SW%    .
.................................................        .             an... .....  .....
i.    .a .   ...w .... ...t .s... ..... ..t.s  s.*s.u.    t    es ts60.   .
U)
--, a  tut  n--
1I21I
h-I



omm ,msls mmnM OF
tIb 1  FM r_   1sW
lal8tl ant tab
.z * ex
cmgt  la lowtt ni
unit    0                                                                                i 2                              1415S a1t,a.t   0    1   aa2  4   5    a02   4   5    0   oI
... ..... .... ....    .. .. .......           ..        *   t      ..      ..... ...    .         _ _ . ... .... ...Stt. .... .... .......
1. t6smt1   cos1t
A nu iunmmw
Imusmi,. CMll
.eawumn.g                                       a       - -           - -                    i       -.1       -   - -           *   0.       *.20.
2 UUEU "Ms=3
t SIl,                         _AND     s-    S    -                              11  -  0.4 -    2.2  4.  - 2.1    - 0.1    - 0.1   2.2     - 2.S    - 0.1    - 0.1          2.6
N Ot tStmtaSmw
uittteto            _          -do       -   129 tlSIT  43   436    -   1.                    I    -0. o0.2   at .          t. - -  0.6      -0.10.10.4 0.5.              -I .7
4. 1tS71 -llE 1IISEUISJ
SEtO                           b         -   20   20   20   20    -    -          s0         14     -   0 0    0.0  0.0 e                    - 0.1 0.1 0.1  0.1    -    -  0.2
POUITEEI1 tS                    0        -   22  2t   22   22    -    -    "S                4S    -0 1  . e 0.2            -   -  t.0       -0e0J     0.30.S    -    - .1.2
tiS  tIcS                  *_         -   60   60   60    0        -    -      40         61     - 0.  0   0.6o 0I.    -   -  2.4         - 0.o 1.1  1.1  1.    -   -  4.2
lalitttC 14811
Sta        I                _M-       -  2o   1"   2ti  ttO        -    -    s4o           S    -0.I      I. a      .    -   -  0.4    - 0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2          -     0.09
gi19C.. uwa
tI                                -    I    1                                      S 1  t  5.6  -   . l a0.  0.s  0.6 0.     5.1      -.   I.S I.S L 1.6 1.t   9. I                                 La
StlSm tam
stou                        _ m-d?    -  2602 SO   290  3M0  30   20  2. 6                 2    - 0.2      .1 0.20.2  0.3  0.2  1.1    - 0.3  .4  0.4  40.4 0. 4 &    2.3                               1
510-to*0  IQtIS -7512    sEEitlS
otgosni  £131tES                                                                                    - 2.0    2.0 2.0   o0 1O  1.0 t1.2         2.0  2.5  3.6  3.?  2.0  2.1 1t.9
S*-total FKE   tES-'-
EU¶IRitI0   tEllttR                                                                                    - t.3 2.      3 2. 2   1.3  1.0  IlJ   - 6.6 a .t 4 0 4.2  2.6  2.1 22.4
a foliatCe"
t. KEEIS
tDRSERES  lStt              mIt        -   *3- -2. m    - 8 2 -                                                                     .12      t t  -  -  -  -  - 7.4
30115                      wat        -    9.                      -                   4.30I 8             -    -    -    -    -  LI         7.    -    -    -    -    -  72
S16-ltotl 103115                                                                                       t12.2-                          t2           ?    -    - -14.7
2. 05e13 6t0110e1
.  ... ..    .... _
l       ottlCIS              ,mt        -                                 -       3      2.014     - 2.-3.5                                -4.2-                            42
1111                          w _tt           2 3-- 3                              2  4.12   - 2.1-2   - 2.5-                                                                 2.5
mmt171                        _t -                                                          24 -T0M   ---0.                                  - o. t -0 -.t
tt9t31T3i tAfllU              _af        - - 2-   .1 .416  - t.2 -1---                                                                . 2  -W 14 -1---                        . 4 
ttAXlttf"CE tt2ttit.i - I - - - - - S lSt - t8 -  - - - - -- -t.- - - - ----- ie
S*w-tott Wli£R 0t110t111                                                                               -6W6-0                                       e -    - 10 00 tt
so&-Total 601033                                                                                           2.9102                                 -2.-2.
Srtetel~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-- ---- --- --- --- --- ----  --- --- --- --- --- --- --
total INURStl4t CO1STS                                                                                       -  ,2  2.1 2.3  2.3  1.3  1.0 *   .s     -so.5  3.7  4.0  4.2  2.6  2.1 47.2
.        a..  s. .    .. .. .   ..ts ..... .... .... t,.. .t tt .5 ....
St.  MEC2J COSTS
_ttffI  UI                               -          -     -           -     -      -                * 0.2 0.2  0.2  0.  0.2 0.2   1.1       - 0.2  0.5  0.3  0.4 0.4  *.4  3.1
AmUtifts                       p.IL *. -                    -     ---                                - e."  0.   C   0.  01   CO    -                 -.2  0.2 0.2  0.2  0. 0.2   21.2
Sl-total 2611411 mTt ui                                                                                  - 0.2  Cs 0.t 0.3 03 0.3  I.t    - 0.5  0.9  0.S 0.6  e.  0.6   it
Total KR HtI  COST1                                                                                          - 0.  0.2 0.3  0s 0.3  0.3  1.2         - 0.5  0.S 0.S     0.6  0.6 0.6  3.2
.... ..... ... .... .... ... . .. .....  ....... .... ...  ..  .  .. *.... ......-
Total                                                                                                         - 3.5  2.4 2Le 2.   1.6  .3. 36.4    - 31.0  4.2  t 48  4.1  2.  2.7  S0.4
. :........t.... . , . ......... ..... ............ ...... .........
Oby2e. 1W1 12:.59



m
_O  FOtOm    .miutatTl  POW=
10t t1t.    tQt tt_M Utt
Wsust e we I-S2
blelled DMt 166.
OKl tk -ee1 t
tet*t tel6.44t b.t
- ------------     ----------....... ..."'.,... ,,, ....            ,      ,, .   ..........................                  ..........    .................
316      0       6                                     1        B       toa       006tb.t   0        I     I      2     4    S    *   ttal-T          I     I     *      4    0    0  total
.....  .... .....  .....  .....  .. . ..  .....  e.....  .......    ..!...    .... ....' ...  . ... ...  ...  ...  ...  ..!  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ..   t....
1. 63126361 0JIt.
............. .......  
Neasti Gll                                   - N                *        *        *         -         -        Ft    t62.           *d  t          s. s   L.a      - -   IL:          4.  10. 210OR te                2- 
popas =t                                     . -                I                                              " S 1L*  -  3  3.tt2  -  -        n   5  68.5    -        -4              -     3  I.  6.            - It  S
tT6 t                             Wtt        -        2         4        4         4        -         -        t                      13   1.0   1.6   1.0    -    - .s               t.     at   tt   tO                   .
56-totl Ciigt        i                                                                                                               .   1 .6  25.?  35.  tD.1           -  U. O          1.   3.   3 J  t 33. 4       -1-21.6
tDt iiit7!tect         41scI                                                                          a t -2e             - I. 18.          - J   . 1                    *.4 2  a a0 .1     -                    ft. 4.462
1t22.2                           _s          -                  4        4         4                           I4          e4                      O 03   0.6   j6 0. e i .   I        6.2   et   0t    t.?                LI,
_306                      _                           - nm.                                           . -                             0.4   0 .    01   0.6 -e  0.1   I S         e      t   6.6   0.3   0.2  0.   1.6  .t 
Pam                              O           -       n         n        *7       so                           S w             tO    -   e0.1         I.0 .    .t                   0 ea0.1   0 1   0.3 0    0.2   0.?
NM                               Omt         -       a         so       so        so       as       at        30           64       q* 0 .O .t 0.2 t0.2 0.2   GA0                    6.0 A    .2  -s 3            I0 .    S It
FNt6216 V1                       4OWA      t          2         5        1    -              -        -   e     t         3t      O    .    t e a        #.S    -    -    .,       -  e  .   a 5   0.6  0.6    -    -   6.3
enn_a At                                              4        to    64    to               4         4        n          Xlt   -          0.1 0.1 0. 0.1 0. t       -a0 3.0    S   o1 t1.6., t 
s     11030                  _t                           so      S.66                 7      tO          .4           t14     -      . .4   L.         -               . NS   1.6   2 I                 - -        -   4.0
AbtolataFl    MWI  a ESlI                                                                                                                  2   1.1   4t   3s  &I  SI  310             - to   Ls            t   o tO o.0  &I  S?.
C. ml m         m2   Lml          ma-61a        -   2.30    L.40   I1S1          KMe0      60   3"O    W.66                    *          I I   1.    to  14 3.4  0.  6               - a o      1.2  62S  2      S2 ,024.1  U01
0. tmut 1U5
3203.63?                     ttt          -       '0       '0        tO        to        I         -               a.iss e        tot  Teat ot  t os nt t             _ at      -t t6.61. tN     5. 16.0. -a6t3.2o
6-l toa  62633413. iSIStUTS                                                                                                          - us..  u.  tO.s eo.  267.?    . 43              - 662.  11t4.3 16.  6.6 21.         - 7ao 43.2
total              t                   RR                   So30511T                    So 4t                                            - 463 m.e   a3L$    11$Mt . an                  - 61.33IIts.2I t   .066 t3l    m o 2  6.0 ao5e
.. ...   ...        ...   .        .       .... ....
II. *_   EtlSt6                                                    ........
it,   VA66  CUT
*   t....... ....
1tWtb                       la  h       .         -    1.0t0      to"   teo 53     0    1     .0t0     ne"o            *      -         as 0   .e      t .    0.3  a           -     -   C 4   2S    a1  *.4  0.4   1..
m16I232                                         a2.0o3§ nt            Of40 3.4   3.      On   3.03    662.                 0         5Ca          2.2   2.3  i.2s  2.2  6         -   0.0   2.s     . t   2.6  2.0. t o  Its
mRu**~***               tx..               -                  -        .    n         n         n                                t  0.n   1.3   2.L       3.0     1.   6.        - t  .4   LS   1.0   8.?  8.0  t., 24t.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..i..;T. ..                                                                                         .        . .....   .... ..... . ... ..... .................. ..... .............
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       SC S *a %A* 0.4 tL  IL toQL
L. 013.
;;;;; attmo-                               -       00      "O        no0       30       n60     6.361          of                      LI.2to4 4.0  4.0   tat                     Ls        SA     IL$ 08.SA   I*4
31662118um                                  -                           2        6?        I   12                         83   -.60400oftOs  11  so0.0.   61 .tt.  4.6 a
5641e6 am3                                                                                                                           -         S.?   1.3   4.30 4.3  4.8   Ms.       -   0.    LS2          NLI363.3         46.S    ~
.                                                                                                                             .... .... .    .. .... ....   *   .... ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
ttol  Ce          M                                                                                                                           ..4   t..
.... .e...  Se..  O             .                SC Cl               eCI            .
total                                                                                                                                     - 62.? 111.4 VI&O SW$ 4L# AS2   -I                    O TI& 638.L180 1 t3363.5?3.    41  013.*
......................................  ..........~~~~~~~~~~                                                               i  CC   COne                    C ...SU t. C*S      CCO
I* lee at eatet. S*I o..Vpg "N.
3w s0. 443 612:0



Smm
Tbt. -.  _   tnt ems SmSO
_.10            tt
4044  0  4  2  2  4  0  S  t..4  to itggot    0  4140        .      0t 2  4
I~~~*tt                                                                                                                                     tt_urn  tt aittl
emseinm          mit         .         1         4           4~~~~~~~~~~~~~------  4 -----  ; ----   ---  40.gat---  -------- i.03                    . .... -3..           --------- ;-----------1
smit      O            4                                      l             *                                    t i  1.34        *            ..   , m *       moa s  .             ?      -    -41.
........  .... ...... ......... ......... ......... ...... .. ... ..... . ..... .                   ........   .... .... ....I... .... .... .... ..... .... .... ....I.... ..... .... 
~~?O40I UWIt UtaS                                                                                                                  -32.~~~~~~~4  a ItUS4A   as     S   CS   I  3   31.  -3.08. W S      14 02.4        -123.01
0. inUI  0 OWtu
SiinU.254420m1                 .          4        2~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~ 2  1  I       1It 41   4.40   -4?2.2.4.44.                                           -M        W 44?0tIL -.4 44.21.43W.
*02340                            .         1 ~ ~~               ~     ~    ~~         ~~         ~     ~~~~ 4  4  S    4          -  0tl .2  0!.0  .0 .80.  4.3  0.      .       -420. .4 -L   I4 I            .*   4.0   0.40
246 etit tmt a 
'~~~''''''''                           .         .          .          .          .                 -               t .                    0. *   .   e.0  0.   o. ttt e  t .    4. t.   4.0   4. t.   4.   *.g 0tt    rZ t -r.2
,                                    04                   II -1               41         31          2          320       4          It."a       -  0      .4 1.2  0. L  S.   4        n  0         a0.  4.    0 .    4.4t 0.8  0.4   M.0
20  41  441  241    110        120      4.010           44      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 .4  CS 0.4 1  0.6  LCS   L1      a L    O.,   0.I   0.  0.0LS  to       .3 
W#UiIW.                              ms          -         2          * *     4                       * .          -         gg         414   -oa..ta                                   t.t         t       e t*  0.1   t                   4
_I..S                                                               to_$S  -             to           M                   to4 - .                           2 0L    0.8  2.4  0.  .    &.        -40a            &S  4.   00 4.    S2 .
S   atutm    ~~~~~~~~        soas                         e          IW         4.4         La         440          10.1           3          40  C 4.0  C. -.  402 1 .4                  -1.0                                      LS4.  4    03200.
9409146?  iti   A   ~~~            14.410   44.410~    4.040            is44   4400        000 142                                WI  O's 4L     O $ to   i    4.5  40.04      -    I.  3.?   0?   0.0  2.0  304  340
........i..................... ..... .... ....0.... ........... .... .... .....
slb-ou0    M tu            a"nw                                                                                                                     -  CS2  0.05LS40.340LS4?.     S.?                  451,4 &S 4.$IL    &I01.1. I          24. SLO
L  tltTtltSt B IM1111   tb am  tdt &M                                   too    t$ M        9e LOW                  -. "O    S"                  2                                                                      . IL     tLt.  LaS to  St*#
04 ?   i                   .*                     411$"                           11          21         16          m            0          43.241 0 ,   .1  0.4 0.   &0.4*2.               gais    440   4.2.23. I
~~.......__._
t ftmtt               JAR      $M               IC oee n       L       tt. one Ite a"e                             Qete we  -k a0 0.010    $aM          I is  3. e to  a0    t  L   WS      -          S.t    CT    C*  at  toe  e  te
tt_t~~~~~~~~U Izste "O                                   n %     tM   e $L     et W& on  "Low           Z  tvm tCe              0          et t*t a.s M.*WSt Wo.a OLStt                      a t&      as li^s M* Ms SLa
2     on.                                                                                                                                             -C, to?0LS*4U.S0                   ti.   n   -*03.I 4tL5 & .0ti0.1 S 410
.....                                   44g  n0e   .e.
.... ..... .... .... ..... ..... ....._ .... .. ............... ..... ............ ..... ...........
;t     i  atam                                              no    30             "Ot M                   M          MZ 3.0,                 &             *                ttt* 0. 4 t . .t -,  ti  t t L               W   1 T1.62 2. It  .    t 
--- V"w ----------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.. * *-------*--*--*..................... - * -** -* l-  
.........................                                       ..                                                                                                                                    ....       . 
At11  US? t 4.  t_t4              _



gumn
_w  Poison  _tttIttOa   t£Ct
toitto  Wm  tO"t tAb       m
an.  3   gwsc fasw   t      6*
331mm  MO ain,t ltUu
................................................... .......... ..........             ................................................  _. ........... ...................
8.11     0       I        3         J         4         S         O       total     bSt  0te    o     I    a    a       4 *  *    s     ttr      *      1    2    3    4    5        a    t114
.......             ... ..  ... .... ..  ...  .... ... ...--- .., ... .......  .. -- ...   ...  ... ....  ..... ..... .... ..... ... ........................
I l6IU61tB 5215
..._ ...........
IL tmt tilsttI
;      ;l_tU    t t                      h                  2         6         6         1t2.118                                             4.1      2 A   I6.1 ne*   Ms    - 401,            4.t 6      1.1 So.* t21.1       -       I£
d  nt1 8  wm                           t tt         -                                                                   i 2    32 . -0.5 44,4 1.41  .41 8                      o34 .1,5 .   eSt ote o .6  6.210,.11 *e.    4.          I
t616861                                                     2         8ttrt21tit  St      8         8 -                  22t    a0. WI        2.5 11.11  t.0 . 014.4          -   661     -  et I     e ei Ie     *0 -    -1  1it. 
owl1  13.4?                             *3 got                                                                            1 t0.1,    -  0.            e AS  0e.8       to  5t4 to'   ,.. -.o                        -   to  tt..    *.1
mot '    tp  t                                                         '                 '      t                     t -  -                s .6  1.8                       I'*        2.1  44.2 e          .       . i .
* tavrt,tM#           -    m         mi-                  4t   t              40                   #                  *3 #    , e.                        02 .                -. t.3        -0 0    0,   05         --   -    '
ft.     U 1t8is2                        Mo                  2 2 -                         a e  e                         i °  -         e     2. t  a I   S. I2.   1..1 OJ    tt                2.5   t.   L.  t4.   6.   43    It. I
W-1.41.  1521 Om1                                                                                                                               41.4  18.8 IMP2. I11. 111.5  U2.0   So.          5 1.5    A    t 6M4A442   424 1     4111.6  63.4
_____ ..  .. __._.__. ___.    -t
5.   m3?S u;in
I                                      on*                            I         -I                                              6026       2.31. I                -St.?  1.1 1. I St        .S*p.g $          .939.1 41.,1  195.46
MOp 1311t      2116a                                -        I        I                   - o                 I        4       110.184    - 25.5   ae.               25.  2. te1.8          - 24.l  5.        -       1.  232   No4.S
661131015116cm.° Oad                                                  2 s       S         S                  105                it M         10.2 S    t  4, S   .5  11-4  *.10    6.2t       tf.4  4tr  WS.  W4 .4145t4.0    15.
6*61526                                             -       1         5         8         0         4         6          M6                   1.5  0.3  t1.2  1.11  2.3  3.21    5.             1.?   1.3   to4  1.5  2.6   1.5   la.I
we  ta tt                              a-sh        -                  -                                                  -                -    a.  3.   1.:   I0  al   15.I   IL:             . uS  ".V   4.2  4.* .  t  4.53T.8  12. .
861 t                                13           -        I                                      S         I          6       .1       -04         .00.       .52 .  4.5         2.6     ..I1.1  0,150to1.                C.      4.4
atria       to
1tt12"KS3I                                                                                                                         - 2   ..1 42,   -     -4.3.       -     -      6      - 51.1      -    -    6       -M 1013
tftmc  "="a                                                 4         5        ti        12 1a      t1 *51                                    0.2    4  t. 0.8  t0.   X4 t .2       2.L     -  0.4   .0  .!  1. t!  a., 41 4.  41,5
uIt                                                         is       14        34        it        40        U2         M          M2      *0.50   to 1.5         o .0tt  t1.5    4.0       - .l4  4.   Lo .       4to  to to   _".S
,1111-.41,a0 61  1523Y S t6 2                                                     t                                                           ... 22 5.6  14.1  66.2  61.6  61.0i  41            ...  36. tot. 4    e3.  18.6 126i .1  M.a
5C ta                                                                                                                                                        to6 40      . 0 co        0.0     -          .00,  0.0  to            -    0.0
:.  vmumsws  t.             PS.SO                160 VW13t           as      2.1110,    1. Om   1.1         4.13M                    1.0  C.2  6.2  1.4  WS. 10.2    *5           -   1.2  1.1, 11.9  5.5  13..5  we.   6.2
3335  14663           m-.~~~~~~~s  -    1~. 03    LOW3      t.o"     U.231   330    It.on           4613            a     -  0.   2.S      .     . .0 0stot    2LO      XI     4co   4.2  114.   Ms.  $1.6  120    14.0
um                      d"               "D~~~~ 1.1   a.we   30.11,  #15.0113   12.13   1*0.1    5W0, "P           S         t    02 4.0  *.4 91,541 604  30.4  310.?     -a    at1*    61.0324.612..2"Et.2   1*
6*toutal43401.   441.  It.s  13.   512.01                                                                                                                                                       *4   no. 3MS.  Ml.? OK.I  me5.   OK
1010,1164411 PLUI&Ito gumnow                                                                                             43.~~~~~~~~~- 66.2551    81.54.0201.425341o.1 54 11011  t1.210.232.636.T*.ItTIMS 8.1110
.............. ................. ........
St. tsi nt costs
I 131665                                 -  24.13~~ftLK O  43.13    46.13    *13    46.01,  45.30D    "66.1 ON                     1.4  14.5 C 14. 34.   We.  14.3   81.2            6.?  W*   *451  WS  *3   19146  lo".
133166   ~          ~          .         -    3.13      1.360    1.521     3. s  1. m1.3a1.56  s  2.13    S.5 as        so         .40   a.0   to6  1.0  to.s  M*.   £6.         -    .5  10.11 US.   WI.  14.  15.    24.0
6h331111                              1            -s 60.0    $166.0on    13.1     at60.13    f 4313   N046    1.110.46 "D                   t2.   11.6  it..6  11.46  III  *4    IS.6    4     .8s  14.1  14.2 S10    L414.6*6    IL
UlOlUUIUt  9.5.  -                            .         .          .                .  12   13   1.1  10.4  II?  14.2   62.5    ..  2.0  4.1  12.1  4.8  21.1  23..1.   101.......
1181l463 0 86a
333161j3111 tam8                                        M6       nSo      IsO       Ino        MS      1"D          60           S        0.     0.3   Co1  et  01 0, 0. 2  ..   41   0.2                   0.2 4.   4.2  0.8      .0
*11111%~t                               24                 4         13       23        2         U        of          111I      -0      -05 .12                 .02.?  *-         0.6     -42.86.5        .1   .2.5 s4.4,   12.
5*-Ttal 0132.    .5#.  212.52 11,411                                                                                                                                                It2. 4       .8 &*4.61 9.0  42.1  1156164.2   12                ta
lototal VN        P$2,S4 a24361661233 *                                                                                                                              ft 25.  3.0     a0    a.I    - 3m.6oI 44.  *51L   . S% *        look.   525.e
At20 to 8   1200eok,NIMA.  t



tfel "mm  so..tit            MAU
table 300 0123  rOES  mw4mu
ObatIe.d tat ttble
a Is  low0
otentity                            sese cmtt                                  OS$~~~~~~~~~4tF  ,9ltt Coo tto
IhaIl    0      1* 2             2       4                 a   S     tfetal   emCt  0          2   3   4   5   8   tt2 26                                        tl
1. ttittSlttEttt wstaSt a.855tttl  tttt    fttttt   SStSt  **ttttt  tt   n  tt   ea   tt  ts  tt   aateatctCS  5*  aa
. 3I0 M3T COSTS
t3   Gs31 mm  Wm                    unit        -       2        2       -        -       -                4      M2.M      -4 1  4.1    -   -   -    -   .        - 4.9  5.1    -    .    *       10.1
tfESltRoN                           unit       I-                                                  -             03.63t       t        f 5              - 15.  9 -   ta s   J       -       - .    3t.
*t1938                              mu                  I        t                -          -             2     10.521     -1.8   .      -                 2.5    -2.   2.2      -   -   -         4X.
Sit-totEl tIt 38015                                                                                                            -21.4 2t. 4    -   -   -   - 42.7    -2.5 26.6    -   -   -   - 52.
4OtItPiOP                            ach        -       I          -     -        -                                                                   1 2    101.ss2    -1n.0  -t7.0  34.0  t.t -  -  -22 0 4.T
OICTcI8S                            wle         -       2        2       2        -        -       -        e       684     -0e.20*.20e.2      - -       -  0.9    -0 .0 e.4 0.4    -   *   -  I.'
51     (202)         llt,                               -        -       -        -       -        -        -               - 2as .  0.1  O.    -   - 3.4  2.0    - 8.  0.2 0.1        -   - 8.  14.S
O1038tE StIES101t/                  e a         -       2        2       -        -        -       -       4        408I -o.IO                 -   -   -0.3        -0.20.2        -   -             0.3
09101 209911138~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                        0                              .4       L 30
PttetO tis                       e0 -               620     t20      20      320      320     120      I2        344     - 8.3  8.9 8.  8. 8. 9  8.1  41.8    - 8.3 8.0    I.9  .1  1.4  2.
SVS                                 sat         -      25        -       -        -       -        -                           .         -4.4    -.D-                             -.D
027311101t2taS                      O.eh        -       2        2       -        -       -        -        8.      282     -0.20e.2    -   -   -   - 0.4           -0o.20.2      -   -   -   -0o.8
mlmio   b MM                                    -       4        4       4        4       4        4      24         02    -0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.3  1.2    -  .3o.4          0.40.e0.5   2.
C. 710911101 8.                                                                                                                                    ..
£3911 Itt @6itt05 t518t2
t_IEM1U88tt ISt tlStt tU StS   mswattl       -       2        2       2        -       -                      tiS, 8    0 4  -22.12a  3. 2a -  -   -   - - .--  --2S. t - 2--  --   -   -   -  t.-8
lab-Total ttOltlt4t OS2S11tCI                                                                                                 -223.t 25.t2D.1    -   -   - 38.2        - 25.12.2 20.8    -   -   - *tS8
Total IUU1T   COtStS                                                                                                             - 74.052.32.87.  7.1 t27.8 63.               87.t2 62.0 28.2  0.3  30t40.1 241.
4w OlEICttE                        s           -  140   15.000   15.000   t5800   13.000   15,000  8T.480            2     - 2.S  2.1 23.%  .   .  2.  21.2        - 2.4  4.  4..   .8  4.  4.8 2.4a
30101t 1381tStel ta70              p..         '       -        -       .        _       _        _        _               ' 0.8  t.2- 3.2 1.3     1.3 --  - 0 t   - -.0  2.7 2.4  2.5  2.5  2.8  13.3
S.6-Total ttowiLu~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~ .SSO                                                                   Y. .  !.OI,.                                 Q#0WS
Ste-tota  081s 6                                                                                                              - c.8  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.3  4.9 20. 2      4.4 87   3  7.  7.2  7.5  2.7
9. 01313cst
3102t  ttIOUS                                        ON .  t  -  0 to 0sto0      tee00 300   30  1;      _.         S      - 3.2  1.2 3      .   3.2  1.2  .2  8.  - 2.2  2.8  2.4 2.0  2.2  3.2  n1.3
Dmt;t tOIlttS                       pa         -       2        2       2        2       2        2       12       .s      -0o.   e.10 o.10 o.1  0e.3 0o.3   0 o.8$    -0e.1  o.0 o.3 3   e. 0 e.0  e.   --.6e
etSOR--- ------- 0                                            0-20    020      0 20    320      ne0   .520  e 5ese050OS0.Se 5   2.8  ---  e                                   .----                8 e -- --  --  -p-
Su*7e Otallt 0t                                                       S                                                         t.  3.S  3.0 .9 4.3 4.9   1_4 2t      t 4.4 2.  !.0  4.2  4.2 4.4  24.0 e
fetal OfOrOiSt 0518                                                                                - 5.5  8.9  8.3  8.9  8.3  8.3  20.1    - 7.7 30.8 20.3 22.2 11.5at  333.3  82.17 1-   1.3&I  23  2.   2.   10     I L201.
tot.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                        tooEtt   too      to      100      to                                                                   0   st;9X2S      .3  6 t. t0 &I  t.1  O- 0.§ *tX    . 
oftttt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~aa toouaut  2t  tsg 2a   stts  se   =**e  3w¢w   -sst   -   tZ
fetal                                                                                                                             -.s t   5So.t 27.t4  4.0 et4.0 34.4 23.4  - S4.90T3.1 4t2 2e.5 2t. t 52.I 200.0
,--- ---a ---- ---a ---- *---- .---- --CD
ib  lea at atm-I. tleact I  pus a.
08  20. 1381   2s: s 



Dotal a Goat Table
Toltls htoloting Conti oat0*
ow.t4ty                                                                   aa. Costasa in                                        lOSS  00
Saltt    0        I         9          3         4          8         a        Total     10it cot   0        I     2      3     4    S      6   Total    0       I     2     a      4     5      Sltota)
aSsentS... 585 t......  .....  .......  test..... t......... teats..... ...........   ........  te.. ass.. eas.. at.............  .........................
I. IUVESSTO COSTS
IUmu;fm  mmus                  uni                  .s        i0o                   a          -                     0                  - .ye OLD  *s.o   8.    8.3    -     - 1910.2      -l0t.I  17.I  10. 4  10. 6      -          206. 4
rnsuougss  -      o          -         0          *         -                      IS     02.631 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i;-13.    --7- 243--6---  ---  ---   24---2. ---- -.8 -07.9   30.--  ------ --- ------
SlibIOtal civil sOms                                                                                                                       -260  61.9  68.0  39.2    -          - 4167           214.4  77. 106.4  S0. 3                 St-*1. 2
S. aumua   a   w      i
UOiPues  MS25co                auth                 24          -24                                                         It 4  0.0      0 0.8. -           40.8           -     1.6      -41.3       -      -  43.0      -          0. 2
40 POW   it"l) cO2            auth        -                                    2 S1                                         6T.0975     -22.?           34.0     -    -22.?    793.         -  26.3     -  41.1      -         2 3.4    I6.8
6161611                       sock                 114        10          4        inI       10           4         440         684        its6.   14    0.6  11.4 14.7   0.6    54.0 a         a.5  13. 6   0.7Z 21.3  W1.    0.8    16.3
Spun  4205)at                                                                        -         -         -.1.   2.0   6.0  11.6  2.9   4.6    40.1                                          -21.0   &   . 14.   26.0   6.6  I.)    02.6
(lmoGSU                    go                    4         s0         4         is                    4         to0       2.710     -29.0 22.?   1.0   6.2    - 1.6           02.4      -2.6 27.1   2.2  10.0           -2.4        75. 2
0111zT2SI6lsa                                   02        s0          3          2         -          3         II.         we      -5.05.?    0.38  0.2    - 0.2              12S& -6          6,860.4  0.3            -0.4        14.7
NIFOEM  /a                   ta          -        12        III        Its       122        122       in2          in6        302      - 6.4   5. 7   0.9   6I.IL.    B.1    36.S         -11.1  11.3  12.6  13.?  14.2  14? T        1I&.'
0mb-Total U0610600  a   WINU?- in.6a  II.   4.0.  64.3 23.6  361.2   263.3                                                                                                                     - in..  60.3  12.2 121. I 39.6S 56.        23. 2
Ioota  1111STEul cos1s                                                                                                                          3 67.6  11.0S 835.2 122.5 22.81  36.2  6NO.0      - 446.6 146.4 too.6 a I.4  304  s6,  1,f.042.4
it. OEi25611 costs
083 PImP ism0 co)            ha          -     0. 90    30.0ON00      O 15.00    ON00    M"0    15.000        260.000          1I          4.5   CS0  11.   11.3 11.3  11.9    S4.3        -   0.3&   9.0      120  .1  14.4  14.1    Go.1I
00161C1.1                     ha             288.0an    26000    2.000   2    66.00 21.0On    20600 214 0.IL000   1. 26.on       I        St2. 2  37.2  21.2  372 1.2 37.2 V    223.4      -  43.6  40.IU.1 45.,464  41.0S  40.1   277.5S
witom  *Atatiam  P. a.                                                                                                        to;  2  2;  6 0.6.8 S 11:1  1 .0  2    12.s0 o  66.5I0r  1s.7 I    it   24. 0  24.7  25:6   12171
Swb-total 06                                                                                                                              -  465  5.3  61.1  82.4 62.4  82.4   349.2          .   0.8  61.3  83.3  86.2  60.4  91.5   416. 3
tams                       vau-&" ~            IL .40     6.400     91.200    16.120    109. S"0    10.120      0220 3.2               -    .2   2.2   4.?   S.1 ILI   S I   26.           - 66    .   10.1  11.4  ft.?  12. 2    5?.6a
stay Att                    alomt                 300       300       4No        S"0        "0        Sao        2.00          o1          to4.0    4.0   5.       6 .76.     6.7    33.6       .0   3.3  11.8  VS.#   5.5  16&0    13.3
$6g-Total SinS A 9ALOUUS-   7.3   7.3  80.0  11.6 f1.8  11.6    60.0                                                                                                                          -  12.8  15.0  2).?  26.3  21.2  26.2   131.0
total flISU   60CUTS                                                                                                                             06& a06.t6  I) C   74.2 74.2  74-2  409. 2       -  i3. 2  62.3 104.9 112.  119.6 ItO.7   60.3
total                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 424.4 1U2.! 206.3 19f.663It   110. 41.206.1I  "O.e . 2264.6 284.0 iw.o 1761.4  .50.?
sate.........    .....s.ate .     ....s   e  ..... .......  ew.. .a.t..a.e .....ae   ..tf  Se. .... t.....
/a TO at salrt. Ilb" I Par Waa.
~~~~~- -- -            - - - -- - - -  - -- - - - - -- -  - - - - -- - - - -  -- - - - - -- - - -  - -- - - - - -- - - -  - - -- - - - - --  - --3--    - - -  - -- - - - - -- -  - - - --0-   - - - --  - - - - -- - -  - - -- - - - -  -



t     a sbl  ?     ImIFMlSV   PUdt I=
b4ito tat table
T.1.4. I.e.4t0e Cosi.gmul
o_*lt,                                                          f_ "* X ents ota     o
"t .. W"  W W.                 ,, *a**. ***  o000                                    W. 8+**** -. s*o.o*              *WWN.W.WS   WR  -.    ..S .. ..... ... S..... .. _*X**tFS*wbS ...
Silt     *               2 *              4 *         *        *      alt   butot bn   *      *                4 *    *lcl                  S *         2i1*       4    5  6104*)
L - CM
~~~~........ ........  $9 .  *s .  .   . . .   * .s    . 9. ge   
a. cansi 
.... ... ._..
M lSIGNS 11t                           -        £       J        2        4        -                a tt     .t.1     -8.4 *.        .26,          -    -24.6       - a  4.6  1.    t L          -    -MS.I
, t   _lt   -       2        3        2       4        -        -        42    t#4        -     s 20                   - t24.3           t46113.e  St.4  .26 as! .  to      -24
1.-focal 33111 ~~~~~~                                                                   -  1.6  44.4  11.4  41.8      -    - 6.8          0.4  44.2  54.8  40.0           - 11.1 w;  .  W. ;;.-
amtitn  em,a  ,1,IS                                                                                                          t         to                                    I J3
inutm                      ouch        -        I       2        -        -                               w .    rtt.i  -  IT.   4.e   -    -    -                     te in..    -  tlt  e.e  -    i - 2t.e  U.4
648 3                      -           'te -    2       2        3        0        3                t*             a      0.4 .03.40.SLS                         S`     0.2   L 0    S0 1.4   L.      .    3          OD
S-S ameach                             -        -                                    ae   t o  LI   LI -                            a      e    0.    S      42         t  04.2   .2  0.4  0.2  S.2  26.3
_l                          "          -        I       a8      24       26        6      26       tt          W      -       0.0   .0   .10. .t  e 10.2            -  0.0  o.0  0.0  0.l  e.1 0.1 0.2 
Ml$                        O"          -        a       a       241      2n       W       26        13         n      -  0.0  0.e .     0.e 3.   0.   0.4    -0.0  0.4  0.1  0.4  0.   0. I0. s
016a 1      6                                   I -  t  2        3        4        -                 2 #        1    -0.1   &I  0L .?0.            -    - 0.        - .a   1   0.3  0.3   0.     -    - 1.3
Uif . Ac                               -        4       6        8        4        4       4        30        323    -  0.2     .3  0.L4  0.2  0.2  0.2 S     1    -  0.2  0.6  0.   0.4  0.5  0.5    . 2
m,mu mum                mc          - t.26            -       -        -        -       - t.2640e4   t 2.  -2.   - t ?                                                             . ..-2.
S1.-fToc   woma   a g                                                                                                    - 22a6s416   LI   t.I  0.0  21.2  66.6    -   aL.  14,   LI   2.6  4.4  24.6 122a
S. 4 mIm £SSIStICE
WIlES                   6.6.        -       n2       n2      nI       n2       n2       n2       n2    24W         -12  13.2  13.2  182  16.2  1.2466.                w £0.1  6.2  U6.688.s6asst4.t
1.focanl                                          I       ittIt£t 1 1Sat. - 132  13.2  1a2  T&22  162  M32 4684                                                        -   .1  033  82.u  63.9 ss.2   6S0.1
6. I WUI                                                                                                                                        ;--
SES                     m-mtf  -   2   -   -   -   -                                                                                                                            3 3  tt0  -3S-   -1 - -  -1.4- -t4
6F rUE                      *t    -   t   -   -   -   -   -    4  48.4    2---                                                                               2.-- 2- -2- 
IS"t$ t   PaUla CT                                                                                                                            - s..             .      - MS                    I    2.0
.... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....,SW,..  S.... .....  ..   .antfltaq ....     .....
tl. _P ullSt
it.  086N .   I
"-a w P                   _8L6    54.616  S4.406   14OMe   14.000  St.ON   26e .0o0                            2        4.4  42.  42.2    2  13.2  *22   0.           36 1-t0    . t         46. IL  8 tas   4  .6   60
0ittin numfwm                                                     -               - -  -                                3.2  e0   6. 9    1      .4 1.4 t.4  S0        3.    1.0  t.1  2.6  2.7  2.8  4M.2
Ich-teot0                                                                                                               -  4.  12.8 it4s  t 4 t4.8   44.6  14.. M2        S.S  1I.0  41.  4. .0  40.S 20.2 61.2
6  tM             _h5                    -   L.0s8  2.60    424          26        2      3336    23.12 2"              -  C.S  1.3  '4   22.22.2   12  4.6    -  3.0   2.1  0.0  7.1  T1   1.5  36.
OIST 4ttlS fOw       t                -                060    30e        0      200     26.0    4600          84 U   -  4.3  4.0   to  4.0  4.0  4.0  24.1             La  63  3     6.   3.2  2.6  4t1
OFFICE_C rs                P          - S3             s       is       I    s       ts   s        67        36        -0 .2 e.4   o0.6s    .      0.0   s    3.   -e.23   s    e.  4.0          t.0   .I  4.8
S1.-to4l 0n"                                                                                                               ;.       4.4      4.6  4.A  4.8       t 4.1    -  2.S  L    9.4  40 e .8  40? S4.o
--- --- ----- ----.- ---- --- ---- ---- -- .- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- - - - -- -- - --  CP
tot    Eim , coss                                                                                                          -  3. nI  t     eo.a 22.   2.  22". 444.8    -  6.t 2MO 31.  36.  21.2  28.8 4.2
,.,.=*.. .....  .. .-... ---... ......... .... ..... ..... ,,.... .... .. SSS...
101*e                                                                                                                        - 425.0 . .0  ,,.I *47.  M04.$  22.0 M Oe    - 4t2 lat t4 434.6 g2.3 S M4. 4 4S6  stt.0
.... . -tt. -* 9. o. te-.w ..... . ... ..... ..... .... ..... ........  s t. t.set.;.. ..... ..... ..... ..... s. ..  ..
.. .  
/a  fn St start. t4t  I pw paw.
--      _  -    - _  _  -   -  -  -  _  _   _ .   -   -  _  _  _  -  -  _  _  _   -  -  _  -  -  .  -   -  -  _  -  -  .  .  -  -   -  -  -  -   -  .  .  .   . .  -   -  -  -  -  -   - -  -  -   -  -  -  -
Sti 2. #142. a



sasm  fimim  f316t67*7666 10036c
Tob.e 30?. *Ulm MKOS? 166t366166
botailed Got6 Table
~~~~~~ 'ose~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~oattmuivCbtamo
Oms Costs in S                                 W s.186yltfgpci
unit       0        6                                 ; 6  ;ta  unitcoot   0      6   *   3   4   6   6  touta         a          2   6   4        5       '.tota
. .... ........tt     . t...... ... .   ..  ...................  .......... .... .... .... ..n .  .... .... ..... ..... u.... .... .. ....S .... .....
I. VOiCE 4co                                                                                                to.4SINit IAT
SPAM    660m                   Sak3                    -3                                          066 6.60                                   65.    L6. 2 
warns worn  sack  -                                             -              6.0                                5.0    0.2                     -            6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: : :      : :  .2
1(615                          got            20go                                                   MS6  2.7                                  S.                                           . 0
6t00P66N 10                    aml0                    6        6         - - -             72       408   4.1  0.4 0.4                    -  4.9    4.S  0.6  0.6    -   -   -   -  s.s
66805551                       gt             20       2        2 - -         -   -        24        22    0.5  0.6  0.6    -                   .0    0.6  0.1  06            - - 
C6EU06E726S             s~~    ~     ~~~~ot  20  2      2   -   -   -   -           24       204   0.?O0.61          -  -   -   -   0.6S       ILN 0 0.   0.6    -                0.5
O6NTIOIAPES         set          ~~~       ~~       ~~~~~~20  2  2IS-           2         i36   0.61  0.0 0.0    -.                        0.S  0.6  0.6    -                 0.6a
1*666.603           sot          ~~        ~~       ~~~~~      ~~~30  3  3   -      - 3   In     .   06. &I           -   - -  0.6   0t 0.60.6     I                            0.9
TARS, to66 ao                                 20       2        2 -                        24        20    0.?  0. I0.6                        0.6    O. I  o. p   *.,                     0.
06466U Cost                                    2       -.       .     .     .     .         2      &3,72    6.2.       .      .     .      . 6.- : 2   6. ...                               .
aim2  MKSS a 10067             set                   0.2      0.2    -                      .4       ITS7  6.2  0.I 0.2    -   -   -   -  6.            .202    .  -               -        .3
0636                        so             2        -        .     ..                    2    011   22.?-           -     -     -22.?   26.6.                  .      .     .26. 
*so.*                          oa m4.i&O61                                                                                                     M        .     9.s 
6011 9. /sTi                  '0                     .       02    - -64                          066      $.I  0.3 0.$                -   -2.4    60   0.4  0.4    .   .   .   .  2.?v
6*wi.   J                                              S.6i  6461      ot 6.6 6.6 .. .    2      66.42   2002. ..4.    212. ..0
5136A  NNUOIUIIS  /a           got             I          ..                 ..                  336. W     O    ..  ..  ....... 5..0- - - - - 6_   6.6!.         .      .     .      . u.s
6aib-lotal 6 ICI a1666  ewnllo                                                                               650.  20.t1. .3    -             -61.6  616.4 22.6  6.6:                      205.
IL Law0 Ad                       ms-Aa        3. 240   S.600   2.1"40        -       -      0.54011       6   6.6  6.6  6.4    -                  4.6    2.0  2.6  2.0    - 
C4*3?00o"6 66636*s  to         "hit            I        I       i   I   -   -   -            4       .2 0. ?1    k3  0.3  0.3  0.3             I . -  CS0.   0.4  0.4  0.4      -          1.
13110641.34 16,1 o11                                             6 6 6ROOM.62                                6.   6.6  L.a  6.6  6.6            6.11   6.?  6.6  6.6L 1.1   .               te 2.
6.h-R.tsl mimrnats                                                                     6.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  i m S  666066  6.6 I.2-  06   43.0  52.6  2    2i.38   6.  .  6.5tp 
I 610666136 *681656686~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                         :           11
ctes.xm wtaiy meih                             s       S        24    66.6S"   34.7  to.0 .                                     .46.2   5.I162.6 ..S.
Icb-1otol IICNN6C*t 5356565C                                                                                 121.3 60.? M0.3   - - - - 200.2  62? 4? 6.                    -         . -260.2
1.6.  65,16Mm  COSTS                                                                                           275.2 06.4 23.?  6.8  6.6    -   - 306.6  3SW6 602S  Me. 2.3  6.6    -   . 434.j
it. 3EU13mT costs
IL    MS361 008 N
4 SID VA               WL        S4. m        to. O"    S4. O"  -     -    -    -  toll. "O   2   S.2   14.7 13.2   -         -    -  0.0      M.?   11.2   M*    .       .    .    . 47.94.00    0,00  5.00  - -   - -  66.60    .22  6.7  2.    -    .  6.0 64?  6.2  0.
4~11 Po                       kL          4.00   40.000  5144000    .   .   .   .   600               2   63.2  64. 613.2   -        --      41.0   i4.I  it. 2  &60.0    -   -   -    41.6
Ssb-Totaf VmsCtc 06                                                                                         36.et4  26.226 4    - -        -    621 2.2.3 20              -         . -58
0flic18a0tistea              night          t00   6.08 on           - ."O              2.60          6I  62.6  4.6 SIt.6 I .        .    .   36.6  64.09 as.  24.0    -    -   -   - 64 3
66662/116                    night       3.2ISO   S. 00   2.1"O   -   -   -   -    3.540            20  60.0  62.6    . 0.6.   .            22.0  *14  20.1  6s.?I    .   .   .   . 63.0
S6-tota  56IOI6uICES                                                                                        32.0  A0. 26.6 1                    70.1  22St4  4,0~ 43. S      -   -       - 6110.
6..   ICh5  056'36. 41.6.coss                                                                                                                      "- 62.?"  S1.0a 80.3  75.5S    -   -   -   - 213.0
Tout                                                                                3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24.6S 641.2 76.2  6.0  6.6    .   -543  6561.1 602. M0.2 2.3  6.9   -   - 541.6 
J`4  Coolste ta Usirob6 056 S/sq ftL 10prI. 100.600, he mod to be coveed  6sc6.ding sorgiasl k6his  forest arMs.
/d  good to cut 66gw. sed help establish Plats.
to 6nc6wf. pasaw stesai IS. trocing pear. mat.,o. letote sots. s.d do* gri6ds.
it  6rc6u40 hel bock%. psrastts. ossItiag croy...  66sgging and SawsAm,n  tags.
3a ~ ~  ~  ~   ------ ---- ---2-------- ---- ------6------ ---0-------------63:06---------- --- -----



o54oo  154311?  436436........1......  .......1...............   ........
1.40, COSTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oS6 6.113 Wl~4
a                                        S. oes                                          Lo         LS                         S~~~~~~~64.Ca, n   f2  66
mmmi
mottm    Mno tuej.                                                                                                                     5
tr114030IP136  tot     C        -                  -                 -        I      2646     -21                               -    66      -14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I .    . I4.
srm  ~    ~           ~         ~          3         -                           -        -        6     4*46 an.4.                                                  4.3
IST54I~33  tow6                                   -    .4                    -        -        .         -    i.            a                                      -    ii      .    2i-2
tam34013145                            we                4                                                      16          4     -.                                     .      -   .1                                206I
6*It.ut mmis                                                                                                                                                      ---- -----t..                 ---  --- --- --  --
1*h-l"ot tivit                                                            ~-1.-I                                                                                                        2.
amm  amutot                                       -       0                  -                           -        I    1.6        - 2669  66. S                          1.         46   64      -     -           
N*-ot~  3163 sU?U-36.                                                                                                                                      to          St          It*e.-    -    -    -    -  1616
in13436291?444.                                   -       6         -        -                                          41.46     -  34  -I.                                     -  8.6
1.06~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~
IommsimtVW"  S~-                                                    1        5        6                  3             22116         4 -622624222t 603                           -    -tb 6t2 6 2 1 67
Sow.t.           to6a1a 6                                                                                  6.05   1          IT        34.13  2214.)       I92 I8.4  1.04.   44.2           IL#m 33.4  13.1  4832.2  61T-6
1in43431  106     -       4        -         -        -        -        -        4    43.20?    - 33.0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W-;;-----------------40   ---   --  -- - -   -- --- ----
--------- PlUP                                            2         -                 -                                            I- 2  636   -2.6 --         -       2.0I       s.  v -         -       -       - 234 
5464  63                                  e% -ointt         16        a         )        3        60       6.123                     -824.   426.    .    .    42.4                     i.,   .   12 46 15 46 1.
"MA 133,44                                           -                 -        -                 -                  -                   6 1. 23 61 66               0    12        -1.6      .0 .    .6       .2    .6    42
54206                           ot         -       2       16        -        -         -                20      6.236    -2.1  4.6        -          - "I I                 2.2 S .           V--         -      .
(to6  4                           4W         -       2                           1         I        -               .46-t.o620 a44 ".4                        -    2.? 4 a       .    .       IL T6  0.6,-
ot43 400s t1M                                                                                    to4                                     I                                     146            I 661.810 
1hFI3   1M14311o                          st                        .1      41        31        .        .I1.t136                      2    2os  .  .    .2               so .2 2  .2 4.  -  3    4.S   .1  .2    .  .4  16.
liU136i3SU664Kam   "ITO                                           .       46        0.        .       061     30.      V4. S"     U- 436         1. 16.1  i.s  1.11  243 -.I .   2.6  1.)    a.  4.4    We.



0011t5171t00tf                                                        0.1      0X 2      0.1      02       02      7        43.1       -  12   t.    *4   it 14  t  *  Ht                 0.  g2.0  7.0  1.0   1.  1.2   10.4
w9.aqmnin~                                 ' -                         '        '         -        -        2      1,20     -to         .    -,                                                                     *e o -1.    .
S* totA*  0003t61S*24    1                                                                                                                -04.0  Os  Ga   52w   222  Its   on60           -$6.   Sit 97.2  0.1   .  2WS   131.4
I.t 13"billollsol   ttatt
at1ttc 1m  to                            in.-*d.           4.200    12.00   11,90    41.00,  92.9 4       090*.00 Qk* V210       2    -  2.   6.9  MO  no 335 9 24   107 0                 IS  04. 320.3 43.1 92?7  "1    MO9
asoce opmage                                   too* 14  044    l. its    I.16    2.0        2.430    4.I0          4    .  0     4.6   01   Is  is   is    5A                0.2  9.1  1.5  1.1  i.t   t1  12.3
4*b-total EST#&$11  19                                                                                                                    -  51.S 12  t4o a        33.1 31.0   MA2.          3?2  is. 4 21.9  So.6 104  194   254.3
_twttf t
e132                                    _nLo w                      2.50 no                                        1.3                     0.9  1.2                       .               0'   S.       -    -                 2G
20WA     am-to   do,.too                                         .1.20    7.1300    T. sa       150   S.19    21.1K          2    -  20   a.  LB          a  00 a 1.9   I*0           IS2  1.9, 9.2  9.40  I.?  43    24.I
1441 iIb.  Om                                                                            -    9.0n0    1. %W0   11.2 2s                                     -  2.0   26 a    9.0                               41  9S0    is I
06$06113106100                           ma-epa       -        -        -   -i.    1.200    1.000    1.009    s.o.s              a    -           -  0.2  4.0  to 1s    2.n            -    -    -    1          4.I  *.o    soa
,m"3-.1V                                      1.200    0.e00    *.       39 to          2                    I -   oI    .9  43   4a    19 .2  -           -    -   et    I 10.1 1it's   26.0
film P1161.I0                           1Kn-ep                 -    410      0.m       9.000    0.06      IL0M0   42.400         3    -      -2. 1  4.0   42  49S  4.0   to6 a                  4 4  S0.? 11.0  it14  #S    4.03
*l610tl Ptmlc ttgitWlzt"ott
1ttI6                                                                                                                                      S.9  ?.  19O  tt2  13.a  19        0  I          .4  WI 22.0  29.9  so'0.s  W     141.1
v. :m
_10900 1 01183 S--tmt,.    -                                   3        3        2         3        -         -       tt    *1         -  to e       9 e . ee            -   n. t    -I  t.1 11.3 11.4 11.               -   45 4
Utt#ttt0                                    _ .ta of                                  -             -         -        2    tt e.n                            -               it t             J30.2          -               t 0.
4,t 10610                                                                                                                                 -         A.*  to  t        -    -   452           11  1 t .   t *14 .         -       7I.S
FeINUM  AS Sc                               ma-rnth      -       o         2        2         2                  -        0    01,.24        n T t* t t.t t n  t            -1144            27.93 W        no tt.0 t           112t
..................... ........................... ...........                                                      .. .   . ..   . ..   . ..   . .. ..  ..   . ..   . ..   . ..   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
ntot  1-It013111. 1021                                                                                                                            -to.e 6 1011 " .L In0 123. I.   .4t 3    - M -L6I.2149 NW I M.0 2- n1 224.0 1t933. a
_. I.......~~~~~~........................**f
VI *up t10/1061                           1.         -       -      e t.4o  two0   2.no    4.300    4.20n    1. 40"            as *         - *9     .111   11 to 2n    2    04? MI            W -   1  19.0  1703.233 3   12 23
4 goPlum                                                  M0      W          0. W"0    a17 t°      t40  4 4         m           I   o   40   7 t2 4t  10   0    0 0a  o.2             - .7  S.I  to S0  t.1.  12 4   t1.9   311
20011411112 itog                                                 "Pl40.    fit M20    770.-10   1900    120an  00  42900        0    .         II  11.0  1.1.0  11 0  If.*   W20      -       1.1o 129  tit2  149  1S   46L
a1.3K                                      4             13200 M    .01.    47. 900   40.0am    49.00    19.00M  112.910, 0              IL 3  t.2  S9.  201  20   217  21.11  13. 0     to30   29.0 41.0  as.  219  24   M7.1
*-totatlEtt 7934301071000    91                                                                                                          - 14.2 42   ~0   titn  t#46   rt.e  al             tt  a2.  07.  42.4  06.3  06.   4.4
i 0t10 M'                                P_a                                    .                                                          Sas  3.9  3.S    9   2S.  29    11.0       -2.   4.4  4.9   41  41   9.0 to    W
tnmotatoino  e._                                                      490    44                       t  tic    tin  S. 42    *9.031  -        0 2   0   It  2t S  I7         1                0 SS   1.   2.   s.2  as    17 4
23talll "Dmas                      -          .       -         I        I         1.       v        I        I      ..90      -       0.2    42.3    0 29 03.2        1.2          -903 902 9. 62  9.9    ?I 
0FUl6201t*                                                                                                           so0 S      9 6 1  &M1  -    ?  at  11   1.?  31   if    ml1          3 4   3.1  2.6  260 St       1L   2294
.  ...  ..  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                            - - - - - - - - -   - - . . . . .;; . . -  . .   .. . . . . . . . .. .   . .   . . .
godf-foos6 ail040a06                                                                                                                                         I 99 9     10   1    61 I  a   5. .   ILI  19.2  129  W  14.2  v. 04
P21115 anrt                               _               1.00     7.90*   -                            -         2s.           2        0s   1.2                             I -    1   0.C   2             . -    -         2 S
_lWt tA-opa                                               4.0     1200    t.SSt    Iaee         1.20    a.t P0   321.100        3         20  a0       6   2e 0  00   t19    190      - 9     10   &I  9.4   Ii   4.9   24.1
_t42                    na _                                                                             1,.  so:WIND   .             .4 ...00  - e          ..0       e      1i oa             e                 I       0    13.1
i tn1 1t3 a                                                                      M* 1tKo *1    t .  5n0  .am0.1  O  S.420                            *.2  0-   a    00        2                      07 13   ts    t          9 S.*
"m=                                                                         XT"-I  M .7IL.00    9.ote   2 1Mt                   2                    I -  ** **    40a  6    I.2                4-    1   0 1O.t ttI  I S   34.0
$olt w"100 m11                                                     9.20     900 M     6v Of    9.2 an     .20    42. am         aI I,  409  40   40   4.0   21.0                               4 4  1.0.   11 0 it411.0 a    0.2
t11- t st 0t924t10  5111t61001.
4                                                                                                                                         is.  ?I t o 1    at  1    17 03e            -9   1    2    2 to  0 23  0  e  0.9 2 93 1 M. t
_                                                                                                  ..   , ..  . .....   ... ...... .... ... . ........... .......... .... ...... .......... .. .. . . ... . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . .. . ... . . . . .   .  . .. . . .. . . . . . .   . .. . .
ltOW  00a01 casts                                                                                                                              349 2S19930g  I0 090 a930   4602 0  X    1062119?441                                  043
. ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                     .    .......   ..  ..  .. ...  ..S.  1
S   I-
J ke t,d   ,t.ytkw  ti_ t _t          ,_tt_. _m   tt- ,   _= W.     tfetitX tXM      t_  table t.  _    3  Oft  _ eotet  * 0  mlt * t,t  
As fitve k    Sl7t% tM      *12 gowiU    mm.         n _0 .   S 61Ut          S       . C             2 79         *     *20   allF,                               a.t
2 p   gw_ 1330. 4   *     4732 0. * tnf7*    11   .1 9 I            109, 0 9= 0   t_ oe.r t1lf 2. *      . _ a2 . few S
Mt          12.0 mm.e a   0  _.   6l3 . Mtt        .0  1.    _ .         _00     "a iDl..
t 9*1. tWOOlS. 12    _~  tt.0  140 ermt  tl_t tt.  _~ e* tD                     1 _0 tt.tit  3__  _*1t 9.  _2
to  Iftlool.0 Oa0 *eO11112001  2 1.*t. "am 1M.130    0 So  ..t *. 1066*1K  9.m  1.101
.           It.We Om          0go -.19tw-00M. to   S           ,, [MQ. I O.ftwI _, 1119. wOm.
t- w1.  tat~.l 1.21        *ott   9.10  4*l 3_w .  tet    tOt2ec t      -             _Zt   "
o"e ft. tst9tt tiiii  Vw _l,  a.t.  slti S. &,
n     met    2     waa totl.t,. Is. WC0.=0. to9 ld etwtI 04    13.000*. old I 1,*t  i1.2600    3,. *o  S*    _   2
bp?9. l?tlat 120ot2         * *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....   ..                     . .  ..                                        ..    ..  .    ....  .     .   .     ... ..    ^.   . ..     .   . .  o. ................ .     .. ..-,sw. ...  .  .*......  ..
|ty 20  iEt  s 



mu. *44m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~voe oh. W  t
141  0        I        I        2             0            9       Voge      14IIttc     0            2    *     4    I      0   ftsIt     5      I     2    3    4    6       4   9431
~~~ man ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
33UIWtL WO                                            -        o                                   ,-                     0  1t.1111        IS                            U      IO             33-                     -   2041
Noun (1S3  mitn                                                                                              I          0    001ofII                                       I) 01    1            *1     -- It                        1
9*SI    14.144  3.1                                                                                                                              -    -    -3.1                    44S 30.1I
m     As ut m                                                       -to4     aI                                                          I. 101.1      1.!      1?    @0 133    4    2144  34S            .0      I     Ut I)
~~ISlN1U.U1  44  .      33         .        .        .         .        .                  as           0.?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I*  -    - -  -  SOLI               weo                      "to0
m111130?                             sub. 41       a -      0         S       a0                 -                  14       m 1.03t g  S$0 1101.             -                3.0l   to   12  ItO  13.0  to                     4.0
013                                   Gm3 * ~*      -                                   --                          in   $4.312    &S I    *6              -k                  St,5    4.6  -     44a      -.a
SUN3      -                                                                                                                                4.    .tio                  1.118*633.3                            StO  -              Oct
1.334                                                                                                                                                                                                                           410 0    31  1116 11111 0*   .   10 -30 1.  2    11   .  33
owunot m,m1u.
91133              1       14        -        .                 .         .        *        .13    80    3.?      -    -    -    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..?  ...2.2..... ...  .. I....  ........
1?Iinint ita                                       3       t                  -                 tott.3                                 00 ii ..           ';.- I .. ....0 "tO    ;.iI                   -       - L   014         3
Oka-lost3201                                                                                                                              1.0  11.0 Its    140.2   &S               ML0    to  "a's 132.11 "A  11.619.             -   M411
3333m 111M                            441            I          !-WI                                                          33     1.-                                         0a,11
Alni      *               441          3D                3                  43                           3      14    AL0            ws'        3.i          wi    11.0  3?            13.0       n - 13.a 10         3'.0
1161 I94141   It               4414        on       we0       M3       M       so        M        M        4.M          W     31    II1.   3?I.                     I .? 40.     3.0   3 L.2   IL: .0   3111.2  "'3   172   g1t:
*dP-1ots nu n    Mmu ISini?                                                                                                                                                                     ---- 1.   1922   2? 2.1 34 4.    It t"o   46II '41
4441  .     S        -        -         -        -         ~~ ~~~~          ~~~~~~              ~~~0 334 -    U on-   30,             -  3.  4.0                        M..I
in,. 443t11*t33      .        -       14        14       .                  -         34    33.33                 *14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........  .. ..?..  ...... .... ..1 .  ..-.... . ....  .--4..0.....
~~~-tg4~~~~~~~~~4 59011 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~335                                                                         no.~~~--:----S  39  -     .  .  335      -       -;W       w .         .33...... 3
It.         ca~n
33a31         I(An                      14           -  96.4    134.3    9*33    %M3    noe    33.3              364033                      atSL O33  .03333 as     . at    s        "1.39.3t  .    u,a   w OI .r.          of0Ps?
*ewwno          s                       14Mo3n43                   04.33   3.33    mm.3       0.33   11.3313111 ,  totem                       1  WI  1.1 ".1  WI    II   14101.    1.3              We103.0  WI a    04s S  O We    W



Vs"fbw S~~~~o C= =4u  *9  o adgVa    ft'oA
180 eg.sa7"Aq                       I=d%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sms.n P
~m.5s~ -   -    me ~imu  .50                               -a55  p so" owou  U
sS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s ., ...  0;.,n                                                                                                                               bgq    ,.,.*55i85~£U34 ~ i  ?l........ -  cc*8n~"Ww$a a
us .imr*&M@*$_   ss t  1' s  WtSlC Cj                               A  uSs  ,
. ... ....... ... .............................. .............................................. .... .. .. .... ....... .. ..... . ....... . ...... ...... .. .. .. .. .. ........ . ..... .. . ....... .. .. .. ... ..........
I _ ,., ._ 5....... ,,,,.  ,,,55  5.0e e. nesS....55    e... _s.,. S.... a.. ,,.e... ,.,se  ,,,s., ,,,_
S IRS  5$l 'Y 535CC 'CI. 536 51 #5 *365  u ' Rt1 Sib CS 3Su mS."  us                                                                                                                                                                                      Wt e       t4P9
ss"  estee.. *see  5.5. sen. s*Y. see.... n-ss  seats..  noes..  sets uSteS I"    se   tes g.em
ssti i  ;   *   emmCuc                              - i'   *'it   gis*; ;   iucwu iiu 'a ii                                                                                                                                                                                 i  '_   tt  n.."        _e
s-w    cv        e I I c l    -c        el t   s -         Il      -      a -. Wi tIV   em    Ole                   go t. go,                          go- S to                       t                                                                                     I    -  -
eV        n            * *s I .I  A        sl  C$ Su                  el         51  ** 93 9            a'    * u,    C                                                                                                                     as C55    Cllt    Ct    cci   45    Ci    -  i
tU           4 iS-i    i'i   i   ili 11 1 ii   eu  id  Cis  i'Ci as    ei  ii R                      i gm eiS                  NOVS   CHI   en    _Ce   Nov    Cl   acze                                                                       at                     t oo
s-u.   a-s      a 1111 C401 es   ccc $1    -si *'U   La       t   slog   i-    i- 6    *-11 ov     ~a SOS    .                                                                                                                                             51 31NIA  o101.41-S1
..   ...   ..    ....   ....   ....   ....   . . .. . ..  ... ..  ... ..  ....  ....  ....  . I..   . . . .   C.....5                                                               5          5-                                  s u ci             iU
Ila  Va    &'$I9199   lu    *1  O's    14:11 #U  0,2    olu    '"   41     O'n  '"    a  nvo .   owiu mw    agoot   WV$   m  u   we I4                                             I S in    ULIIA



bltel d but 11.
400.  '65low
4.3  0         3       9        3        4      5   S    total    01*4 at   0          3    2    3    4   5   S  total           a     3    2      3    4   5    6   10W.
us*ct 69O0n1=111n.-it                            9       12       12       it        6    -             St     7.5 6T.   .6 11115 %.5 130.5 115.5  57.4         493.0  "a In   Ina9.  Ing. 07.4    -         -54
towns"I  COI'uX1R tash                           3       12       It       12        6    -             45    St.76  2 9.9 11S.5 115.5 115.5  5.6               4 33   34 3.    336129   74@.
smog6 FORST t PuI              m.lP              9       12       12       12        -   -   -          45     772 6.   15515515                                '33.2  ip.s oa 39.8 132.5          -            47. 4
1996905623011111S 11111a                                  12      it        6        .   .    .         to    57.126   666  MA5. I15.  57.1       -    -         1 .    O  ".S. a  tMo   65. S&S                 414.92
m3T1Un 8(3 Iva      C UK                                   I        I -     I             I3I            5            1.34  -  03.6  11.6 3471  11.0131.0 11.6   a2.          12.t5   S.1 2I .   33.5& 138 W4.   107.1I
UotIP@   S8Ivinso9                               3       S        2        2        -   -   -          to    69.34   34.7  34.7  23.1 23.1       -    -   -   '1S.5  3L    pg0 212  23.6          -   -         12in.7
U1slt3m OF #&cows              min.t5                     2       I's       2      1. 5  1.5  1.51      30    62.3141     - 22.1  11.3  q3. 1  17.3 17.3 17,3  315.1       - 25.1 33.6  2&6.  20.2 20. 7 23.4  133.S
516-1etal 53±935 S an  111114ts                                                                                          3231   3.45314 I 485.2 144.4 21L9 23.3 2.0515  3253a.65L4 562. 556t4 166.5 34.5 '05.7 2..4
4 No 1C31                                         2        -       -                 - -                 3    30. US   15.3 I-    151   tL -IIS
SIItSSei-oa  It Sa Ia~l                                                                                   2                                                               W 9.65---9  4.7.7.
Setoclool 1USTOOT       9-12142                                                                                                                                              -2232.
140o311 071361363  SMC3III   invslu                                                             -         2     231       312 14.    23..3                                                                          2.3.
3.  13 1119 S3051135519
5111191it5ETO S37C$3     ST  mnq9                3          t               .                 .         3     K9334   347.34.73   3.3.                                                             .         . . 35.3
toa  13S@5   OSS42555.  3.145  344 426.2192, 39.                                                                                                                            4556.5155463.5 34. 25.2.32.3
fix" 01111.011.00 5.00 5400    400                                                                  2600  1613    3.    323.21.    25                                      09   54   60   52   1              . 1.
MLP amtr mutst  amp-wwdbo  S                                               3     Rk 3M   3~~~~~~~~45235.57.46437.2519352.1   35.4 34.   5.5                        8.  453.  .0
I. Se. t*I. 100.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  --: -- ------   -  -----                                                            --
40,20. 3937  MM1303           tPT                                                                                            09:                                       0    048.



DOW ioustu UJMlUMION ,mmci
lable S03. 9210a
SEE 260lU 6010109  OISIUIUTIU
btal led Cm* taba.
OR. low
Totaf lioIite~ Coats --'its
omm"tdty                                                        let m~se to $                                  an1 I000)
unit      0       I        2        3        4        0        a        .t.t     ORA%cot 4 I&          3     3    4    0    a   Total  0           2    3    4    0    S   Itotl
S.,**..*......,...:..........   .........................................                                                                ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   .
I zusTinat COSTS
4MDPl630P                  ec                                                                             2    got.        -l? 1.0 1?0    -    -    -    - 340         -197120 3    -       - -       - *0.0
5PM93 3323.                                                                            -                                      3-3. -  -  -343      - -        66          002  ?O*1      -       -    -  12.0
tomns tpml                       -       so         -                           -        -        so               g-. 3    -                      -   2.          as     -     -           -      i.s
t02l 64c12                  Ie                                                                            4         m4      o-0.      -    -      0.1    -02              0.1    -    -    -0.1    - 0.3
SiEtES                        t         -        6         -                           -                  i        3s"     -0.3    -         0.3    -    -   so           0~4    -    - 0.3    -    -   0.7
sm                   set~m                a         -        3        -        3         -        14         Gs    -03 I -8.0    - 0.0                 02          01I    - 0.0    -0.0    -   0 2
02391610310                 so.                  2         -                               -              2      6.70      -23        -    -       -      2- -23         230     -         -     2 . 0 2
WoD I= 70ui00 jl.           set                  2         -                                                    13030      - 4.50                         -   40          0 3            - -              0 -S3
umzIaIf mmsu s              Sol         -        4         2        -        -        2         2        to        NO      -0.50.2           - -0.2 0.2  11               0050.3    -         0.3 0.2   1.4
watts                       ge                             -        -        -        2         -         *        gas     -   .o    -    -    - 0.2    -  0 7            00     -   -         0.3    -   0.3
SW -total UVINCiS                                                                                                              -  00920.6  0.0  0.3  0.6  0.2  U.?        -37. 327.   0.0  0.3  0.0  0 3  65, 3
0. CIVI low /a
31092  862831l74t03s        mlit        -         I        -        -                                     I    61. U?    t- 03  -        -            -     -     - to.3  -1 123-12.3
TOSI.SMA                    unit                  I                                                             *0.037     -13.8--                  -        1308    -164  -1-6.--                          4
1021STGUMs                  mIt                   I          -2                                           2  1     926       10.      -   -.   -     - -   410.        -1.0  -1--6.-                        0
102051 WIODNOSI  mit  -  2  -        -        -        -        -         2      12.313 ~~~~~~~~~i-4-4-1----:..  ..   --    -4.9 --4.9- -------   -- --
SAO-loIte  CIVIL NOIS   .                                                                                                      -3.?43.?                                   -2.1    -       --S21I
6  s79t6000o                m  ea,tI       -         -        3                                              a         t0o          -  0.00.0    .    .   - 0.0             - -0.0  0.         -    -       0.0
total 169041mB  Costs                                                                                                               1 4.6 20.36 0. 0  0.3  0 6  0.2  W.4     - 09.0 27.6  0.1 0.3  0.6  0.3 310.0
.... .....   .......    .....    ....   .....                   .... .... 35...tI.....
I I 02033233 COIl
f313161103                                 -   10.000   20.000   30.000   s~o 30.6 30,00   30.000   450.000            2        2.4  4.9  7.3  7.3  7 3  1 3  33.6          2.0  0.0  9.0  0.1  9.1  9.7  03.,
20ltDUo MlsauofoR             p.           -                                                                0      0.90            -1.031.01I031.01.0   0 0              -      -1.01.?   1.21  a   I       3.0t
UIfO0tSib ft                   h                                                    I                       a          is       0.0  0.0  0 00.0  0.0  0.0   0.0            0.0  0.0  0.0 0.000a 0.0   0.0
Total 0202203  COSTS                                                                                                              -24  0.9  .3  3.3  6.3  03  41.3           - 2.01  7.0 to. I10.6 11.3 1. It 04.0
19333                                                                                                                              -  102606.6  006.9  S.6130                 -9.  35.3  0.7 1.2 11.0 It11. 173.4
Ab  jtnclvo   pot,* d ...cmoate:wm. tools. m   tatlsorw?
0 



a        M30 IZst" tR       t iIW0  PUDZtt
tabl SOOa. tlE5tt
stttvinittuu              ?09 nsTrir
bWat ld Cost tblol
Sk   I Gt *t
e_01 I ty                                                                   mS Costs $.5 S                                             am,awm
.... - .--.-----. ..-....-.-   --- .---   .   .  ...-   -..------.  --..-------..---            ---------------------------            ----.. -------.....  ---------......-----------.-------------------... 
oimt        a      I        2          3           4          3          6        Tot.   Ihtit cost   0            1    2       3     4     5     S    total    0         1     2     3     4      5     5    totWl
*........... *nats .,... .... ........ ........ ...... ,.. ,,  ........ .........  ........  .........  .... .... ... .... .... .... .... ..I..                         .... .... . .. .... .... .... ....  .- ---....:
I. ulinslu Costs
................
4, vactsz a tewpmo.
4P103P                                   .e -                  I -                   -                      -           - - t----.-                      -67.0                                              t     t I                                    19.?
P5        am                             ..db                                                                                                                  4 -  -  -  -  -  -  -    .            .4            s.              -      -     -    -   S.
*tttoteItttt   f-                                                         -          -                                             S- 1.3   3.           *                  -0  .3      -      * e             -e          -      -0e.3       -      -    1.0
etainw tms                               Set            -      2          -           -                     -              2       6          no         -0.         -      -0.n        -0.1    e.             -e.t        -      -0.1         -0.1    o.a
t wCtas                .  t _            St             -                 -          .           .          ..2                                4t -  -  -                               -     -. 1.  1.6      -t.1                            -           2 *
M s                                                     -                    0.2         0.2   a          0.7        02 a                  33.98?        - oI  6.         .    1.    1.1   1.1   W1.3          -  6.    1.4   1.4   1.4   1.a   V.S   13.
soM  lIttIllIOUI011                                                                           as            -                               1.0an        -           -      - .0.1      -      -   0.          -@.a            -    0.2       -      -   0.5
3-lotal 03101O1t ImaPwut                                                                                                                                          9      I  It I   I.,   I.,  1.2  3.2               S 3n.4   1.4   1.4   2.1   1.4   1.6  4a3.
It  tU" tCit ussstmt                  t           t         ^      -          4                                                        6 -921 t                      I- tt  .i 11.1                - 79. tt.               St e  tlSt 5t  St5   t        .  111
0.Tl3aw43slslm33  in-~~~~~~~~u~~.  -  -   a        I           -          I          -           S       Wata~~~~~-- -  w - ...1...   ---1--1.-1                  --- ----- ----.3--   -            --31 3 -3S ----- -----
total  tM        3?t     1                                                                                                                                         29art4  3It3.?   t.? 't.t   1.2  106.S             - 31.433.?  O.?  3.1 1to.2   1.6  122.?
....................... .... .....
; W,                                   t. M                                   mom        Ito"        IS.am       M -  -  0.N0 10e    1 0  1.0    1 o  M.000  t  -  *  2.4   3   3.1  &    3.1  1t.           -     -  ao0  4.3 S 46   4.   4.6 a          .t
95t1LS14   3 1Nc                       w.o             -                            I                I t                                  11.3 t  t    3 ;.t   t.9   1.9           t.  o    .9   11.2        - tt      30 t. 1   3.2   3.3   3.4  tII.
5"-11a6  03t3t                                                                                                                                             -   t.9   4.3   3      3.3   3.   3  .S   23.         -    .2 6.t    0  .6   1.6   0.0   3.2   40.2
.. 33113151.
3130                                     to            -     -           *          2          2           -          -          0        tO15t        -      -  1.4  e.10e.?          -     -   3.?         -     - 1.s0.6 e.-              -     -   3.3
Pullttiml                             3e               *     -           *          5           -          -          -          S           tte       -      -0Qt   .1         -      -     *   0.I         -     -o.1 e.1           -      -     -   0.3
01Wt1tnt1ttD               its           PR            -                            t           I0                                        3 03 *           0.3  0.3  0.3 O     .S    0.3 O .3    L.O             0.4   0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4    3.s
St- to t 0 I8s                                                                                                                                             -  0.3   t.0   6.1   1.0  0.3   0.2    5.0            -  0.4   1.2   6.4   6.3   0.4   0.4    6.0
totet   I  T  I      335                                                                                                                                        -  2.2   LI tt   3.   0.       .9  3.9   33.3 J-  3.1  0.    9.0   9.0 s . 4  3.?   43.3
total                                                                                                                                                            -3.1  U3.  19.4    .3  St 6   2 I 631. 6              - 0.341.42 .?  11.13I.s 10.3 143.0
,, ,,,, t,a. ,,,, ,, ....................                                                             .                                                             .                              .......                   . 
,,,..............................................................     * .....----^--@> ............^-*-O
/O Imtt r    tOJI.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            olWmm  Sam. so"
--- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- --  - -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- --
Obi M "INT St 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



- 67 -
Abg" 3
Table 601
pe  1I
'if          *aJ !          4    ,i"  fii*         6o      :$"    2t-O        .                '#4
S                                ..  *~~~~~~.      .......  
P''.                                                                 . .           . . .
,,,,,                ,       .       j * .     *4j  
*                             *    -   *    *   *    * zZ * X - - - - * - - - * - -* 
13,:                 .                          ,                  ,               ..
.**E.  ,                  5'-  '  '                         . .      .
:,                                                 ...     ....        ...       - ,'
*lSiS  .g Sas-                                              ---  --*  - -4           -
| ,~~~~~~*                 0     .       .       .    . .     *.0    .....
j*S~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
j~ ~~~~~~~~ S                         *S*    5*SS,  54
I 2I
*^* *..    5..                   .  .  ...   .... ..... .            ...    . .......
3!iSl.E 11   i I    iii at!fF IRi1 r    aiElI15
IL~                   ~       ~                -      -         e     .5



0. tECtictt sslirt9C
1009611? t3mit316611t S9I60U7S1   m       s     S        12      a2        -        -       -        -        33    57.12  86.6 3t5S  t5.S5                           317.?  66.8a  3. t0.        -    -    -    -  344.4
mau-urn aenman0mt
COMTORI7S                                              -                2        -       2 -                4       314    -            - 23.1      - 2.      -    46.2       -    -        26       - 27.       - t s4.2
tthltOt                         _ttn          -        -       -        2        -       2        -         4     s es9     -    -    -  3o        -  J.0      -    6.o                  -  s59      -  6.b      -    it.
S*-total 1t1 CtCM i      tSSISttttCE                                                                                                 t.51;15.5i 26;.      - 25.1;    -  3i9.9:-325.;;.-3.6  3.5   i   3.3             -  410.9
TIuM ttlmi>1h                              -        -          -     3        -       -                 3      it 54?    -    -    -  53        --.4                                                    -    -   1.4
tEttllER 511ItA
fiult   IEttssp             immtb          -       s 9           -            -            -             9     1t.033       to9.5                                 9                                          - -22 2  22.2
%6-Totat 0311S8                                                                                                                -   .          3t                       29. i       n2        ;-  4      -               336
2. 1611Et0lC  t16*1616 c01ts9
............ ..........
P5WESSIOUIK MFO A F0
moiemi I.                            -         -   .       70       to       10      1o 0      o        so     2.        -    -6   4 7   4.7  4.7  4.7  4.7   23.5              -  9.  1.2  10.5   0.5 811.2   #2.3
t ESIUS lb                         _40                                 40      40       40       40       200     2.61      * -    3a.8  1.  36.6 3l.6  IL 0e.9              -    - A3.1 4<0.6  41. 9  3.3  44.9 200. 4
V0ogul Ra                                                     s -  -  64  so   s0       so       so       300     2.6$18          - 22  26.2  28,2  26.2  22   140.          -    - 56.0 0S.&  62.9  3.0  67.3  3214.
1S1 1T9 d                          -              -           te30     30      30       30       30      nSo      2.1e      -       -4 11 4.t  4. I4t .1  14.1   t.5               - 29.0  30.5  31.4  32.5  33.6  1st0
ORMAuIaNs mOaSs
a suS       0                                              E _  2s  2s       SS      25s 5             1        .18               I t . 1.7  It. ?    t. 7 It.?  1.7    t.7 -I   24.2 25.4 26.2  27.1 2S60   130.e
S1*-blat t131 3t3tt1  TRAIUING cIns----- -    - 7n.5  71.5   n.                                                                                            .  --- *7.5  3675    -6 -- -- -7.5 1710 -7--? ---.0  66-.7
STotelttNtittitt                                                                               -  ts.s  n.s  8.l  n.s  t.s  n.s   ;ft              2.2  s9ettit-§1ttel-ts7t8s.o   8ite            1~~~s n 5   .    ".s 7.   38. S- f$ 0.  1730 IL   ISS*  U. 
S*-Tola3 13*13139                                                                                  395  77.5  67.3  77.5  77.5  77.5  416.8      - 22.2 156.6 176.9 173.0 376.7 IT135.0  637.417.S 7. S4IC4 - 2.2       a io.A 17. Ope.7M.     W.
1.1*1 1655100310111                                                                                                               86.6s it6ts437   193.0 113.4 135.1 105.4 133.6 1.133  6 513 2104 21t.4 239.2 21S.2 2662 I.66s.0
*-fl S tRu StRUt StSXI tOtS- StatS *-ut tOO=tS    fl* *-lSt *3*2* 0*D-5 StE.. trust .0*ts *..sXt.
if of    Itt COStS
A. WHNICh  06 & 
6M1                                             -        -       -       12       n2       2       I         40         3    -                  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0e- 0.0                        0.0 0e.   0.0    0.0
4e3itst8t                                       -  n2co   n.eeo   24.0e    24.00o  24eoe  24.000   no.000               2     -  2.9  t2    5.   5.9  5.i   5.3   29.3         -  3.4  3.   7.2  7.3  7.5  7.7  S367
724el""0aS                           3.0.             go       so       M       no       6o       000    3,00          36         A. S  3.6 o6   3.6  3.6  3.36   21.7         -4.2  4.4  4.4  4.5  4.5  4.    2.9
OMMm                                 I"O                       w00      500so                     540    3000          to    -. .   0.6   .6  0.6  0.a  0.6    4.6                a 9   1.9  3.0  1.0  ..0  3.1    6.
I*-LItls 53e1t6e06t                                                                                                              -7.3  7. 3  to. 3  10. 3   0o. J  10. 3   55. a     as  6.9  12.6  12.   1 J 1 13.6   SS.6
6. 611101666613100161
e16cEs A nttssmi                     Ps                          I        I        I                         S s    11.362    -    -  1.9      s   to. .   3. 1.9      6.5  s            3.0  3.2  3.2  3.3   .4   16.2
003*1763315it                        15a        .        -                         I       I        I        s     1090 .gt         - l.6 e 1.6   3 .6   1 .6 e 6 I    6e      -    -3.32 0. S13oa     . 23            15J.6o
slur 33 iIt953                                                                                                                          t -  -  I  I  1  I  f 4 20.106  -    -3.43.4 .43. 3.4    36.6  -    -5.4  5.6   5.6  5.9  6.1   26
1503                              p.         -       -        I         I                                s 1    I941                 .    3.6    . .   3.6  I.6    9.1     -    -  2.9  3.0  3.1  a.2   J3   15.6
SCb rA1N1  06S3 M  &6S   LS tStJ                                                                                                            i  t 6.9   .9 9    ;.9  6.    44.t -s       -    J14.3  1W4  15.2 WS15.1   .2 M 6.3
..6633699?.0.83
S6UiU                                he                       s5        50      5oo      50o   s5o        2.500        31              2.6  2.   2.0  2.6  2.6   3to                -3.a2   3..3   3.43.5    16
mo3 66113 FW.                                   .       .         ~  1.20     1.23     1.200    3.300    4.600         is    .               3.7  3.7  3.7  3.7   34.39                   -  6.7  4.6  4.9  6.3   It4
99936t3Ot   3W                                  . -.400    1.400   1.400   1.400   1.4                   7.000 ee                      1o3.0  13.0  13.0 3.0  13. 0   6s5 0             62  36S  I6   17 t t. t t.7   84.1
sub-Ttat  i3USlUT 0                                                                                                                    - 1t .6  19.3 ts.;    S   M3  ft. 3   02.7 t- ft4  24.4  24.t  25.4  26 2   20. 2
0. *11A
P93101INS0                           Po                          I        I        t       1        t        6    10.9 tsf        3.7 t  .7 t.7  1.7 U.?  1.7   30.2    -  7-0  2.0  2.1  2.3  2.1  2.2   12. s
a031  wite79tT                       Pik p1             t        t                         1        I        e      1t. 58        L. t.9    t .3  3.9  t.9   1.9   11.        -  2.4  2.5   2S   2.6  2. t 2.8    I5.S
1*-total f6*13ftl1tS                                                                                                                 3.6   36   3.6t  3.6  3.6  3.6    2;.8i         4t.J  4.5   4.6  4.7  4.8   5 0    27, 9       * I
f etatU   6 1 0 0 9 1 6 7  tf 3 5                                                                                                    .   31 .0   3 5 . 1  ; 4 2 .    1   6 2 .t 3X  4n . 3|  4n . 3X  ; 2 3 4. 9  -  7 3; *   ; t i .0   4 7 .2   5 6 .5   5 7 .S 5   5 .   6 1. 0  2 09 4 . 3  O "
Tetel                                                                                tNttt tt 441 t 276 5 t5S ! tf)t. 2 147. S t7z. 5 t;405t. 9 tfn J S2E- t m  lt 2tU 0 2Slt. lOSt  7t.7t!4.ttt5 t29.t2l2, 22.tfSt  8.3
..... ... ..  .                                                                                                                                              . .    ..............  .                                                    _
/a  20 I.. el_ eeaas" 15  am
/& 20. Twowee cm.w*" p.
*b 10f te moms   a          p_   on
bc 20 t     _ 6    ft _:0
JCts ft go hiem_ e_  I-w
/*  tOOm etw  _               e-    P
w  20  ttW    - - -- - - --               -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - . . .. . . . .. . . . ..o;- - -- - - - -



.m *oau~~~~~~~~~~~m o
M$t  0  I  3   3        4       4       4   ~~~~~~~~~~CAIoa    *%I too   0    6    4    3      4 s          *          ' ake%                 lots)
& Cull cmi
1I$--                                               6       -       -                        -      3$      443       -?-.
I-1o4s6 £4331 mMto                             3-S I.                                                                6t                               ?1.
too ujtam,                              .                                                        I 344*          -                       *                                                  to 40
tm~~~~suinis  $464   .  S   .            .       .       .        3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ....4 .4...4...4 .. . .....  ..  ....
astinPt IVIC45eo                   554ti      .                                       .        .       $     44)           $                                        To                             t . . 
550  .  I  .  -  -      .       .        4   $30433     .fl)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1---  ---          3.....4 ..  ..  .. ....  ..
2. 141113
imaisy no$                                   .      I                        .       .       .                          as5 . I                        n. I,                         .           M
emmim   a lumo5 M                   .                                                              ia.as    ., 44.53                                       7                              .
SwUp cain                      ma         -.                                                            It "a         S.                         .   4$.                                     
4WD  amp                         55         -       I       .                                         I    44.3?       t. $4                        .14.1       If                             .1?I
-                     .       .       .        I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~124.1  I.,$  to               6.1      4. 1.4                 IS        as
ISB44 alm                                           I 3     -                4       .       .      $4                  .4      .    .      . 'o 4     t.4 I444  O.    .  I
Ish.uU          .     go       .        .       .                .     a.                .          .    -   .             04 ~~~~~~.......... ... ..  .. .. ...   --  --- ------ ------------
Iiasiiwins  -  .      I       -        -       .       .        .       4    tern       . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS&     2.       134         O4KI        S.4.2 M
tm                                  t~~54 . 6       .       .                                      341           1                               I1        .34                        *  3.
"a I* mTss  4411                  -SO     0.s0                               o .   0.a$C                    14       .     106   .  0.6.1 0.   1.4                 t.4  0.    t.o.  01433 
$Pon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
4 04111  11$U4115t414       -         .       6     04      O       4.       0.      0.4     3.      34 M           .403    .  030.   .3 64                  0.4  I.t.3030. .     3.3               _
Ofmli,gms .-1                                                5        -                               $      4.43      -101.t- - -    $3.                        -.414                      -- --- 4
taiin~ mu116                       .4t.              -        3               .        -.      .             it4*S"     S.,    a4t3.    - Os            11.3     -    - 133.4            -      -. 143.
5a-?oa6 talum    wasIm                                       -.       .        .t     O     01         C         M          L        . 17.0316  W   -   - 0 -134      ts 01 $43.4   13.4    . -   -34.1.
total 611            & 3U" 13114.4114 4                                                                                                        53.  3 .0 3.S 0.41, 4 M3.4314 .S4 $14  6.3 4.3  01744.4 
iii4ii,iiiWi;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...ta   a.



r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ so- -plms -wd  -  msesvsmeO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......................      ..............  " ........    .
sint  '1,   i          it- IC$      V   t'l    t -     11119'S             al     '11  ali   11 1  IC  -                                                    $s4 1%
... .... .... .... ..... ......_ . _., .. .. .. ..... .... .... .... ..... .... .......... ,,,.,_
0'49       velt s'i§ tSI    t'lt eU       '    -       * w    &A   I's  Ir I   94   6                 ' G
.  ... .... ....  .....  ..... ..... ....   ..... .... .... ......................................... ......... 
Is    or  $          III e lX s*     *z        -       IVa  t-$   t It'   t- I   t'e    -1 Il                 Ie                                                                                                                                    to* am)es    oB   tmtwa  ee     
9-61  A'S  C'S  *-S  t IS   S' I          '    -1       &-t  t-6   C't  t- 'o  C      't CIO    -1            S            eress                                                 on, e-o.%   ms-t oe                l  an7 At           
tv  GIs GI               GI  01-                               91 a Is S Ig  $1  9 I                          IT               MG   on'    m I   on I e        t@-   el   owl   -                                  4nt
e't   114, 11l                         o*  e §oo--zlt  *e C'   Vo   c o     b*|       u
....... .......
tI             J I     I



.i.na.  -1M n           IIIIIf      ,,s vw,n-     ,ffl.  m0w.f ttl,     **ONO Wm 
Cr3450 =1     m o&993  *'*MS  511*194340130110g6*131  Cr3484 Cr09604111491110 013W4011*l1do       33w  0199  0 'w6    013013                    533J 101)Iall VWi
*  *                                 *                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wont  or"a   010,41    wown   woof  own      gmn mu w me IU 111141
WO  WI  Wi  we    ,si      lii      Iii       WI      ~~~~~~~ ~~~               ~~~Wi  1Wu  "IN  *Wu  do,"   We                       311 114 33
*        -        -                           *        011~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O   Wig    of,"   WI  Wr3 W                          ES WO38
*                 -                          *    oru~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  Wiz  Wut  fon   oo',                                    waI3jll-le
*                 -t NM   omlolou    DW61w o   soomt   o                 oWU       W&SM   wit"   0s0          Wo'I  oona                          a    ua metmi
orotui  orui9          "l        l       tl o10*0    OIi   146   1641   r333C35   41#116   ot0698   OrUW    05*1    010191   00146   *11401IOMA138
p's      *,. Ulm     w0 %%a          Wm       Ul w       ou        Orm *1  Wi      ll      WO0        lf Wi   *0       Wi09                             WA4 OM TM1
o1k6Z    wo45    va1     461Ui   WSIC    Wdol   co-in           WM03     WOt    OM6         Cr11     "In      016      O                                U IWm Mo
owai   00,11    outi   woru          WmIN    *'C       "IO *              Wl401   uun    £Wu 0119    -                 *011                               1111-
OPIUM   WCr61    40011     COVI0901 49    WOKU  O'Gl    WUM%   W34                WISM   011=    011OW    40oil    Oleit                      auI   w 03341s
0'l*tm  00011M  00093  @0160   oiuwr  oUts,  wotruA   011666  5'Rul   KIND61   0111                  OVI    0109    N1W                                 is43616 644   VW33
111s     Ulia    sr@        WM1   0101        WITS     s KIM       U1111  **      K'Sn    K 0        f1       E         1                              31 U    331
0101161    WMla    Cr356   WJUl OW Wd           *W    46169    Cr103    twt W       (00    516 0WetCr0                 015                              36314N1111
woo       Wo   olt010O   wo'm        Wens      omu  owam   ow"ff fowm    C09               WKI101 G O        sit        Wo                                you 315
011     QWItS    WItS    Cr11        Wt3    O9m        ow       on       ont    wow        on        on       onw       Ptw1 GA 30331
WE8      51l      001t     *,St    401       WEli      Cr5t     s*t4     01       0 0      09'S,      091 0-i  01.     091N  SOVI   U31
Cr30    010l    *61*t    @6109    0164    *11    allW           61V*     WOll     C0954    0lc       wg       0,9      GI                               m48115  l  11  1  U     1011
Wu3      0111     WIT    *13.        wet    Wet   0CVII         05I      Om1    iVi#1       wet5     Wat    0it    "I                              iu      In6311
0195     CII      wIt       Wit3   4095      Cr03      00,1     OS'S     41115    Ollog    51       515       515      013                           *IW    01da
AN"i i W) UUi4
wooii  WOls        womIa sWoks  00'oou  40sm           o'ooot oiou    sims  010PIN  woou  osut   0iom   sWmk                                       wowos mu sULM
will    Wilt    W11    W51t    Witt             sit    Wit    "lilt    will    will    will  Osit           st W       oIWA     CO       H   w     W 0   Si   MMa.~
will    WMl    0011    Olilt    Witi    Wrll    W11   00,11              WAR       Wll      wit    WM 015  0il65" 015  Cr93                       - 6~          P 313J
WE[        51     Wt         t Wit            Cr01 01 wi5ols "a  u W     owt       Wit     or"w       1 ols, ow                                 IV    Vm 00113
51  53       Cr51k's   40, 011  Wi       Cr6      00 59    5'       ol       -                           -                                       rj5 I131
*  -             -         -        Cr9      01       Cr9       WI       O'5      0';                               3/~~~~~~~~~~70=   auwm
0'040811 5646.1Cr0511 5110646010011 0b*lttit0'591t1 C0000  050*1  Cr40316 OBNS  wosi Otisso'soot 0a,"65 m  sMm
sitt  Wilt   ~~0*4kxt  W0**t    COLts40 Slait  01,41104 WIlt    Wi4llt  CrOLIt    40CUM1  0111"   W01Lt11  oblotI    00"m3J l. SE m,n1 U  3316
sili  t 'm1       0"ltu     &It)    WitS      Wlta    atlt       rSM     414sn.    Cmit    o'u;    oirta    sit,    o'c            6tu436 )*  03  to EU 3311
06159    5U16     Col      ens      ow0       015i    0W5       @11*    K915      iO't     *1        Wu0       %.t3    S9                                4ISM 3101
o1ii     0*,1     01,011   Wit    001,1       Oilt     09l5     Clif    Cr51      "lei      Wtl    Cr6I       Ule      Cr5                      S/ suvifiti   433
Wit      Wu       WU3    foi        401H      Wi3      Sit      Wi0      Sit       Wit      *16      SPI      *If      *                                Si31 foam
etuPNMN to 00)1 meAO
toot     Om4      *41      *11      Cr0      9361      C961     CIdo     1551     01t      Cr01      %61S     O*ff    Om                                  3033
0113  0111  0tt    013  9313 03*3    011      C11   ortau   @tsm  VISISM              l      Ot       W                         / 39118
*                      -        *                 -        *                  *        *        -                  -9i191a3
0,ff  46      0        01        1         t?     Ct        Wt         I       1       C          r1      CU       OlvI 10



- 72 -
Annex 4
Table 1
Page 2
'%94~~~S 040e   , .*q
~~~q 1 0 3 5   ~~~~~~~~                                               .                  _..                   .    ..                  _                       _       .
*8tf
Kr4 it                                             26.40      30          3.80        A.0;        24'         20t.0       0.40         .0        40.40 J4011           In4         42.0, 
Boom      */                                                            -           .                            .             ..
110             , 0 U   'a                        15.0        I5.40       1.          1.30       1SM'        51,40,      1.          n.1*       16.20       M.;         U.5'       1.'         1640
mm _0                                               56.9S       12.40       52.8       51.19       3.10         14.60       4."        .O."       1.2          -.* 3.S                   0       U."
"M  000at i dM.14   :a.0    2.1                                                            VIA     209 1.7 20    2Ja"o 2"J.4  23.11   22a.o    1.7o    Mao    m.a    31 
no l.0 _.0                                                                           1.80        2. *tt                              30.        3           5.9A     W"  0.        040. t
m  9M a                                                                                            .           -                                              -                              *
1016.111 _ l1n
80994 h                                                        1.4t0        l8         t.t0       M.lt                                               -                                 -
W        15        4                               44         A."         V."         J10..49 001  44t0      41t0    4*2.50          4440       46.4"       4.0         1    9.8  2.0          1
1W  W1INS                                           U.."        4.4         51.80     5U."         00.0         1."         4.1         4.4 ,8l               ".         0I0.09      ID."00       44
M1 0 . 4o w            4  t    hl. .93401 1a74 tt.             Ill.4       til7."0     11 .C0        .0 111.40      11.8  101         sit."      014.4          .A             111.00 W."      .HW
MUI'  .3 4         ,*            t.4ho I.t)  t I0.4            11tl.4      11,      .4    .         01,81     HIM          0.         111.4       011.4      07.0    1    1..00      it."       st40  I33
l        9WOU                                  400 .0  510940.9  44t                                       *t         49      4                1       014 411440.4
W0O      M15                                            U~300 3."         02.8        01.4        0.40        4.40        3.0        32.4        0.90,      32.0          .9        44          0,4
461150a                                            M.8        14.40       14.80        1.90      3M.O        36.09       mm*         30.0         .0        3.40 s      5.*        3.40        V-.00
11i                                             .                                                                                  . 
_>ow        4-                                                   -           -           -          -            .          .           .           .          .           .           _ 
1      -  W                                         42.40       4.0        4".         41.         16."0       4.90       44              0       49.90       30A4       3.I tO                  do."
mm s53o 11                                           04.0       a4          04          04         194.0       0.          04."9       10.40      U." 09      04t."       14         1t4         It
won  no MS        m                             1940.4    0 00           094.8    88004 642000.40&Lol   214480.40  80800.9   Sa .0    " M0,9 4909.4   3009.4   018060.0    ""a0.8
5-lQe IWA.                                        am          0.3         06.19      14A.3        40         14.90       034         t39        U1."9       31.          1         01..9 1t.80
MAt" 014
11w4315      O M1o10                                0         19.4        1040       11,90       16.19       14.70       10.19      10.70       i5.90       15.4        1.0        U05.0       31.09
s124. tmUS                                        134.3      W63.10010.3            631.901    030.21       417,19      42.9        156.4      441.3       91.80       474.10     103.0       M.46
1014 3M o                                          70494       909410.     164 20                 014* a O.   I5.19      01.90       39.3        41 0.       10. 20      M1         333.4-0     36.1
MM11  09.3/.1                                          3*0       2*          3.40        1,40       3.40        3.90        3.40        3*0        1.40         .A0        2.09       3.40        3.40
1M   Am lill b;;- u4e_ u e                                                    .om    u.ee    u.t 7;4e t,;ee -;;Z                                                                            uxau.  ms.s l e
1.         W.40         3.4        403,40      4.2          " * 403.90 4"                                Su.90  415.40  J43 0               1".0L
91340'! 9340t.                       540.40~~~~IW   S",8    590.8       59.9        0340        315.90       3I*       0304        480.40     49.40       404.90      404.480     43&.
u         1                                     229u40       9.se       331.0    92.0          2.40    t3 .w            1.0       5433.10     t4.          MU3       3 ."         9141-0  3W 0.t4
M&l CAN *a                                        3433.9    392,9         104.1      n30.8       1 .109      U30,6       M 293.0    3609.3      233801       =a0.      940.80      0944        13'.10
Mm' so   "       i446                                            0.46         ,34        .1         04          0.36  0.36       0      1.36  4.56  0.1        4.-36                  0.6         04. 
Po 1      L    as 02M                     lb""4.9  344144.9  004440.0  30914.4  22904,4   0427 0.4  04a               0.032048    0410.4    390.9   3997 n431.044008                      ~4949
am TIC
M-M                                  4*~~~~~~430  43,40     4M",8       W1.4        WIN.4       W0.4        W-*        340.40      349.4       4.80       349.41      333.9       322.0
"Ml,ri 00.                                       474.80      47.90       414.80     4.0         93.8        4108 430.8             440         3'.40       X1A        06.8         W.e        3'.90
49749020                                        2296.91    :94.90       011140.    32M.90      20e.40      01W.40    2003.      013t.           30    02.50          2,4.00       906.40    3R4.
9         am5t5                                   3390.3        3 .       26.0        -4.9        -14.I 293.8           392.0           .3 -        ,       20.0 W      999.e0     043080      I19.40
mU sa                                                0.49        0.4   444         0.44 O."         0.44        0."         0.09        0.40       0.49        4.4         0,4        0.4"        9.49
am      mS a0    ta mB                          140880.90  I024.80  0         .0  1I   42.4   0403 0 304.0  014 1324.90    101.4 0   90.   I30eA0  32 m.     '010.40                           4.010.4
am m
001022tt.s.                                                 . .t         m.s        2S5             . e                     .7o 2o7 2 e        Bs  1-         s       2^."        noe        t
3130.WS ~     ~         ~        ~         .                                     .      .                                   _ .       _                 _.                        _
Mn    neOI                                           0.14        0.14              0.14  0.74             0.1        4?    40.14       0.14        0.14        0.3A        0.1        I.          0.14
O .w -am W                                                                                 .                                   .          .           .           .
T01   11Aof   MIVr I                             59340.8030MM"0.40         MA03 20*41040   0 Ur346.-   03" 13629.07213110.8  163*j130 394120191.40 3033219.8   MM228000                      MINIM031,.
wabsna~~~~ .                                          .   i      .a    .          ..  . .      ...rsSnt                 a.     ..   ln      I.nf         ..t.       . .   ...l 



- 73                                          ~                                     Annex 4
Table 1
11;,,,                                                                              Page 3
WI"   it                                     Q-~~~~~~~~~~    44.0`044   0         I*5.0                    40          4.            70
j09t65iW8t JO                                                     .                     .40       2104.4      431.0        440.44       440.40      440.40
toome  OfILUATON it                   45.00      41.40       44.40       44.40        4340         45.40       416.0        46.0         47.146
(40t504441/                                                        -           l      147. 0      25T.40       331.0        424140       424.4       424.I0
nut   03135140/M3.40                                           M 51,             5.5    740         37.4       27.40         57.*        a..04        Ml. 1
5divi 4940*4 O                                      79,40             TU;.59   ;544    040.        522.4411 142.44          54;3.44 0      0".OO     3404.
9040340~~~~~ -                                     .ft   v m                           .            .X
4013017±340                                        74.40      540,A0     040.40      2.4 
9935.  toe
59474                                                   -           .                       .    .      .            .             _              .   _ .,_
to      alai"        A2103                        34,4        9.40        65444       43.4        6$.40        40.4        I25.40           ` 7.4    17.40
3971904                                             3n.*        IWO         0.4        hU.O         440          40.          1.40         4.40        7.
#0311KR*.) (4wom. .,o.   wit*5 v3s45                331.40     17.40       137.40      517.4        I57.40      537.4        I374         557.40      f5ilm
"a III.340444"M    Wm wits pt.)                    531.40       J.44      317.40      Jill* .a  N    7.     40 a             l4e          57.44       W57.
lt /iiS  -* 4124.040444*510.373404.e4   74454.40   24154.4   43344    6054.4  4440044
t#lk?>l                                      ;sMaO ;;W46   17.0 ;V.N"    1t. ;  .oo z    SOMAO 1?"NOt"
(5 1059   0  _4                                 w2.40        32.401      3.40  Ul      0.4        4.40         9,40        32.40    5tt 40          32.4;
545.40A                                           40,0        0444        45.0        43.40        42.40       42.40        43.40        8340        44.40
03050  4                                               ..0                                         to,"         5.          24.0          0.4        24.0
7915  059                                           12.0        12.4         2.40       4.40        9.*0         4"a4         23.4         1.40 
"M 14534 fo  s                                       to.,"      £4.40       I4.4        £4.40        I4.4         59.40       54.40        £14.4       34,40
5(0-4       W.                                    3240         2.0                                                 .
tItO,tt4 F   ..
t                                                     - .    5*    5                      .           .            .            .           .. 
7073L ROAM                                          434,34     -X.4         52.0                                                                           -  
443o5.34                                               .44       2. c S0      .4         2.40  3.4;.                          tt40   .4    244          3.
00.1  48  .o54440M
03ttt                                             32.4   W792.40   3MA.4    3                17.tO   llt41   t97,4a   l .0    3."t   392.40
54330124KW.                                      476.4       416.4       47V         436.40      416.40       430.4        41.e         4304        43.4
t_ b94.0                                              .           .3.                    .            .            . -        
70331(1M                                          2092t.44    44.40       12.4O        .0 42.0     0.40        43.4         40.40        074.40      42.40
#05  toam 14                                        41.16       4,6       *.tO         4.34         04.6         8,26 *.34                41.10        0.30
517n    9                                         13.0       3&* 3       32.40      332.44      I33.t         163          32.         33.0         33.O0
495305  915.                                     379.4       VIPA4       39.44      224.40       22.4         32A4         719.4       7.4          VI9.4
m. amo                                            tW0    M20    49.    4M.4O    02.0    IWO                                    .40    4."             624
tWIt# 110   1                 41.4                               0.4          .1        4O.44        4.44          A44         4.44        4.44         0.4
teltb FM CM 44ftlm                                                     -oo                                                                      SOM
am44                                                              .
ltfft Iaa rAo f.    U
tetm fD1016 i.A"    
9955130J4A                             ~~~~~       ~~~~~      ~~0.74  4.24  4.4 4        .74'       4.74         0.74         0.74-       9.74'
am am 40*1   FM                                                                  m. o .                                                .
t0am  immfiam  Ks39                           21"0904.0 32440334.       OO0200424 4061114.422 4.09440IMO  14440.40 1120100. 543749 1099.40)30 2311IS.0
~~~~~~na.-fl                                                                 .inZ   *tWtaon4    flffl.S  fl"           a      2          WtO
lt SOt)".r S.. 201 -a-. .-
Ar 7.3    184 WbwSt0.     om
It 4*a0tme0t"ooto 32 43/048.                 av
I~~~= =, _ _  ,,_ _mt  _.  _su40  _8.4._/
ft WOW t43.48         a.                          tOtt
j 0tam 40(083t                                        tt3.Ane   t 44*tt03 834.
60834.53    4033I0 ufs
lTrwf         N. Fm  Mat                                wt." fk                 w            ba              be s> O 
ft"0- el   --. - - ._et _o _VO
to aGh 1W                 a                s.        n.xl   n.e               n.           .o          n.o          no         tptO 
ftWt 3b  FiW                                           e.WNr                    J        rc           e4t          O4t          04            .t         *



Unuex 4
~~ 74   ~  ~         table Z
.|.~~~~~~~~                                  ~~~~ 90 V9@  99l
,          §, §                               ' 9   2    '§§ '!§'
*                            X                              k  § E:   |   'r.
*£  9                                                              -    t1 *#
.1    3      255                                                     -  ,.   2§ 
0,l.iI -§   g     'g§£||5i   jat,   I                                  $F'
,i,  i    g    i    i  f* .z8ag                                      *
iti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5    9    93l   a,    .90 -,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                ! !  .    i     9,-. 9   § § 
1!   9s                                            9             9s 9g
*'l                                             *, : |.       
9?                                              :1 .'0 'f  9 '   '9     eii    l« <
a~~~~~~~ I                              ii     1!!;; £2:
l~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                9    9  
I~I~iii1    '                                                          9,gl  9



tfttwPl Nett, of liturn of Not Strom
WTO To                 t5. m
SN(T71I38 VAWES AT tft
fl..tas..z:c3..2U.u:Ufl
£98ISAt   StItClIIIG    PIUCEllTABI
ST*                  VlAUE        VALUE      c0um11
0 tOt           I. M42       I. 41310."       -2. 245
C TO           t.41331.0t  t.942701.0         37.483
Net Present Volvo at MmC tOS a 329 Of026
Internl Rt.t of ewt;n - 158
_im  wipv.tt Obt, of   It t. tn
IPNEt  VALUES Of iTi St79   4r AT A  fIsraw in ot tOt
8.TOt     up lO         2 P 01   69501    @_INOt    M M            M20M WCS  tf  1VWLU62YMtS637 *
C. TOT     S2O.910. 06O..33O1.09t.  1.079.4 t                UI.    2t4.065.t 9 -4. 42250735249.M. 419. I3.703. 4.591r.612.4
0P to101    374.04.9 50.201. 02M. 377. aU.0    I . 3S90911 346L.30.1   -t.043.1 9 -5. 8 10721 .113.0@73. 8 S.6057.6Sol. 6-9S.538 124
W  20M     24.6t.933.244.035.001.663.491.@31.I t.2t073908 9.2t0.9fS8 -1.421fEEOt -7.2497E       IL E.9n .SI.9-9. t.340. 1 -2.3374t1
up 51        -t. 77701.7 1. 1.65I942 421.083IM. 181.3.039.39 -3 71t7E-0? -5.86241.Ot -1.14 90.08 -J.543IE*17 -S. 14331-07 -6.60821.37
_0 tO    57. 06. 048. 318. 473.0M2.7 1.6S90606 1. 6t1S11464. 613024.01O 8.11.98.6 -10031749.38.117. 133.32% 725.6Ott133.914.                               @
M  201   81. 182.070.0 1.0601.0  1.2603.  I.783I"8.,04S.Y423202I.3 -3 .                     .2. 1 44.   732.39.335.f
DUB 501 s    . 231601    1.430171S0t  1.62444EOlt 2.207251.38 t.04IE1.t08436.06426.4551.013.3 1.016211 3.811.35.276.0
tL  * 71g 3                 -                -           -          -           -          -4. t00. 024.232.044.32. 1tl.44.821.2
Las 2 TE13            -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -43. r?. 294.129.131.48.8
14607E311             -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -39. M5. 01.1
131E11   mm  of REt0   0   NT STUM
& ToT     DP t1s      32 M       UP Sa  _OM  101   OS0IOt M             M50   t*6 t YEAtAS 2 Yr*SL LA 3AS
C.70M            15.272      17.460      U.652      21.478     t1.247      tl.3        5.724      1211        11.437     t0.31?
OP 10%            3.429      15.2M       17.24      24.278      tt.679      .9.93      4.1s9      11.610      10.346      9.32
uP T0            11.964      13.575  tI 27          21. t34     10.41 t     6.62        3.91      10.483        .420      8s.90
uP SOt            5.662      10.104      tt. 338    1.272       1. S"       L38t        1.122      1.174      *1.213      S.                      g 
_SE lOI          n1.15      20.414     23408       34.234     ts. 22      13.030       S.60      14.634      t2.744     11.405
001C 20          21.134      24.08O     28. 47      42.339     is. 03      IS.212      a.114 1.731           14.359     12.718                  cr
cow 501          41.05)      S6.80      66.166     10 0Tto     391309      31.8!?      1I.2??     29.816      73.054    1t.303                   M
La tI*3               -           -          -           -          -           -          -      I5.272     t12.939     t.43t
LAO 2 EAS             -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -      15.272     12.959                  WIJ
LU) 31*65                         - E                    - i                    -          -                      -      15.272



- 76  -                                    ~~~~~Annex 5
480 U. $11.
08          06         1001002    1ta           INS2        100         100         100         2006         la?
uOAaoio (000 . tow.Omodl Is
9191613£ lb                                        15.00      10.00        2500       2U.00        U.00        20.00        20.00       10.00       20. 00      32 00
1391011001111081103 Is                              1.00      10.00        10.6A       IS."0       IS.80       11.20        13.60       13.80       14.10a      14.10
INCAI11IUAL 380300  900300116                        11.10      30 00        35.60       31.190      40. 60      41.10O       42.80       4)680       44. 10      45. i0
ROYALTY PER .2 Id                                    II2. 08    ISO II      105.30      233.1?      :53.093      161.16      324.02      224.01      324.01      324.91
01113110  fe 6011  31013311  118030              256608.294 144110.00  3128708.00  5022820.00  61851063.5   I16680.681  8342140.16  6536687.16. 6501171.52  8102116.12
101111*110 T01AL IAROIIO  0071811                    70.00      200.00      l08.00      Its. 00      116.00      i31.00      136.00      138. 00     141.00       141.00
R11V301$ F30ON 16C06S10 0018L1V CgOECI.C108 I* 6283. 82*62148.00  6187160.00 1026314800 1301 1415. U  1550580. 02 t8s58012.44  M628M2624 180033. 86 116605431de
101At RIlIIlS FINw KAR00000                     685242.4104805641.00  0315.04.00 154051,68,00 10101250.20 221024021.80 28002713.0 16002113.50 219748555.0 18746555 10
011300  (000. M0.s pyOod
1316010                                             6.60o     14.50        35.6        58.At60     61.00       10.00
0803300 - 31601811
9001111031 -t                                                -                          0.40        0.80O        0.60o       0.10        0.8 so         O         1.40
11140110 1ti11118110  Ig                            .2.0       4. 10       61so        13.10       it"8        22. 10      14. 10       25.80       2850t       1?. 60
166816161s811 01TID 060011130                         0.10       16.00       44.00       70.10       A 60.0      61.0         25.40       264         2160s       20. 00
OCtAL? PER0.US 1q01..                                204.0%     14.15       let 05      301.11      035.0       1821.0Is     set.10      set.10      101.1 To     01e 10
0018111 Ptg. W    athe' p2f10                        44,02      63.03        76.73       61.11       00.1 1s13.061           127.84      111.54      121 64       111.64
iflIllUl  000  h61 DT011116A  0010               61011.04  500118.72  1281114.1S5 1*4413.1t  6043222,40  00132311.6  327161821.  1400428,1 IS  560782.32  3135121.60
£51111811  TOTAL 007100 01018K1                      21.00      41.00        65.00o     133.00      180.0 d      211.00      047.0       25Mt00      265. 00     1i8.00
01V11301F0  I111111110 81001811? COLLECTION lh   142240.14  613100.68  1055M.KS  4M18M.04    112084.6 10 110460. 14 2185420151.04 2053400.24 305,524103.68 28146886.80
10181 0110110  Fel Suluw                         2026.608 1122314.320  4SHM.8.31 10011015.8 166561I1. 05 35211M8, e0 216148880 320132028.80 34132168 00 2550014 02
0483601. 00 tonsI
030710511                             ~~~~~      ~~~~        ~~~~~1.00  3.00  4.00  0. 00  6.00    6.00
1110A01113T  ij                                                          -                 -                                             R   0  .0   0.0        120
tiliRG A                                           Is. 00     10.0         05.0        080         28.00       2t0.00      20.00o       10,6M    0  2002        31. 00*
2611116181 111*111* PROUICI1                         It.00      11.00o       20.00o      31.00       38.00       35.00        30. 00      38.00       2o600       43 00
1166351EEpi  fellP06If                               24.0of     34.38        41.85       41.64       54.41       61.6        60.82 -  61              80a o62     688 2
111(8111  FI0N INCREM313AL 016508                 281.0  2281551.60   04014.00   0168104.60   17634.40  1205028Of  12032. 00  Isola?&.00  161010  80   11621.1So
11116A110 T1118 048RCO8L 90681120                   11.2 So      2fit0      130.6 so     M.10       168.00       170.80      15. 00      1190.0      164.00      fee. 00
0111131  FR   16K851  111C601 COt1CTION /a   213208.84 10761120. 10 206884.00  3416345. 04  414410. 00 I135208,.40  6051188. 00  500451040  6051128.00  8051188 00
10181t 01116111  9003C18L1C*A                    211015.60 12011611.10  282118.20  43040409.0111 5410664.40  63663840  72105820.00  140854.60  168wn60.6  165358120
91MM=  (000 id ,ltliOd
Al-3386P180T.                                     12.40      28.00       20.00       10.00        21.10       12.10        6.8 6o .80              W0,10       10.8
10181 1211t0009000001103                             13.40      1000         20 00       20.00        0. 10      22.10        8.6so       86 so        Q20t       28.80o
601611  P10.a)                                        4.80       6.61?        R.2?       0.01t       10.6as      12.33        Me.t        23.02       13.03       12.02
011631  fun0 11111161                             632. 16  131204.00   161400.00   101211.00   31711. TOS 20506.6   112538.14   I22M3824   142032. AG   313184.84
001   000 polmol
9181t-022U                                         1800       10.00       30.00D       30 00      124.0 OD     21,00      201.00      W6.00o       2340 co     671.00
1018"  C188$ au1 P3 CI3I6                            280M00                  00           00        340          1. 00      38? go      281.00      334.00       631 00
OVAL"7013001 ou8.48                                              8.60l       0.64         0.05        1.00        1.2Is       I 20         1.20        I 10        1.20
011Mt1 9FO.1 CLSS ONE P01IS                        0804. 80   2gt0500   31110.00    16108.40   143174.1   2031141.01   300841, 10   392041 18  41508612  1212650 08
CLASS n0o
at6-Una*                                          12.02      16.00        1 10        is18.0     114 02      351.00      230.00      12000o      266.00       M0. 00
1018111.8010092001110                                12.00      16.00        1&.00       16.00      114.00      251 00      13010       21002        266 00      61800
101A11196pie                                          0.80       0.84         1 02        1.1         t .23       151i        I1 To         16t        Iii la         l
0131131  9301(81  1009IND1oll                      1042.5S2   15102.44    16414.00    21t051.086   231440). U   316301.44   291441.80   301441.80   45114516  1181040.16t
1183S 13611
p10 -ORMA                                           6. 00     12.00        It 00       M2.00       (4.00       14.00
10181 CLASS 111011     MIO                            & 031136.0  13.00      1202        12.00       14 00       14 00
001811pi P1690[                                       0.00       1.41         1.3   1      .01 1f .24             2864        1.81.         88   9     2.88        266s
IRtlIfti  931803011901101CU    tiE                 1631t1    180134. IS   2084. 00    21380304    31318.18    35403. 36
T0OTAL 16CA1111112  93113211                    1400218.681420823,2n  18435523.61 2812853. 40 41421416 10 555210103.3  68041543. 00 68oa61640 10310448 04 130135121 68
.. ..S.     ...  ...... .....  *.*..... .* .l                .. t*lt .lk  ........... .....s.t.. .. ....... flti SI
is  cunjnl to10M. coewei  lssa t          f Is,.
lbt lOlgs W     et. 351 132u'1s1t.
IC  Umcao 501 of  Ufgkew will have 1110  2'.tm. in '.cowv rate *a to tw~o   ssaillh,g capatillpt
Id Isusms class 2 hardwed,
I*  Alummt To wi11ll eIuU  'M31t, Cvlel4tl32p to M0  IS 303? 2 301 in 30r 1. &.3 41 is, Mr5 2. W4   Us 601 lion  5  4 0IWead.
if is of pitsollel ..,..h of Ot"iess Volvo.
Ig  Assam, M0  of ctoTfes gil II3  .1011a   i~f54s" In. ecommy isleOnt v85 l      30?081110tpb
lbAuiemms   will1 IncPom   royally coIlalitfton  00 In in   p 1, 30  lsfoe  2,s45wn~ 2           . eAnd   0'  O.wfar 4o'uvr
14  leslie  lCHIsoi#g  II el/los.t      243
lb to 1W054/.
If Issams a thiomal bumw' bwmw a too of cOticel a math.
to  tagegg  OD EIl  I Imps, tot 4tt (on tote to In of clwicosl b3w,s .5 VWea I, $20to IVWet 
453 in pee 2.A M60  0,32 Mrs 4 aonsetd.
7-0. 161 1308.. .. .... .. .. ....... . ........ .. ...... . .. .. .... ..........                                         ...... ....... .... .. ..



- 77 -
Annex 5
Table 2
UGNDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROECT
INCREEMNTAL G RETAL CAS  XlOlt
........... .................. _...... .... ..
U.SN. NILLION
log?    198     1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1114   19s           'ill
INFLOWS Is
..........-
EXERNAL FINANCING
........ ................
IUI CUEDII hb                           5842   2t512   11712   13159   12101   11448   25192                      -
04162N  GRMT                              1138    1481    9529    9751   12632   14224  1t210                               -
EEC GCAIP                                   -   11009    9244   10409   12718   10141   11983
CARE GANT                                   -      224      IJ5     358      231      434      280
UNOP                                      548    169t    5468    4101    2853    3431                     -                -
;.              ....... .......  ...... ....... .......  .................................. ........................
10111                                  1528   4818         M 41128   3778   40131   402J2   56265
OtIES. LICENSES. AND TAKES /a
................. ....................... ......_
ROYALTIES fRO  HANOOD FORESTS                       861    4801    9316   15406   19197   22792   26903   25903   27468
ROYALtIES FRO  SOFTWOOD FOREStS              -      204    1122    4255   10073   16056   25213  3P1AI    32974   34133
CHACOAL LICENSE COttECtlO                   -      272    1303    2533    4315    5420    6309    7311    7411    ?5U
PERI-URIAU  PtANIAIONS                       -       6o      11      232      255      U24    1201      914      914    1063
TAXES  tRN FUEl EIPENDITURES                tt    i1i       242      310      385      446      534     534      534      534
TOTAL                                     19    loll    7903   18745   30524   41945   56055   57470   68623   70904
__.__... ...  __.......___   ......  __. .......  __....... ... _.... ...... ...I---------
to1At IHL5t                            15417  505U1   48191   54543   71256   82227  112320   67475   68623   70904
INVEStEHt  COStS                        80    44413   34045   29887   31516   3025n   47744                      -        -
RECURRENT COSTS Id                       18    62689   10197   13174   15716   16167   207154   20311   29399   21J21
MY6! SERVICE. ID  CREOIT /o                      436      436      436      436      436     436      435      436      436
. ...... ....... ....... ................... ........... .................... _._ ...... I-  -----  _____._-..-...-
tOTAL WtIFLONS                         1518   51115   44678   43497   47B6B   46875   68934   2074?   29635   22257
33333:3*33333 g3u3s3  3333333t 33:3333 3333::: 3:33333 3333.Xs 3333333 933333
NET ANNUAL 1NfLON (OUTFLOW                 -21    -565    4113   11046   23590   33351   43386   45729   36988   48647
CIINUtLttvE INFLOH  IOUTFtOW               -21    -587    3525   145172   38152   71513  114616  1t1627  200515  249262
*0vu.s s         **a* g las    taes  Vests ,ets  Bast  %asses  I.sta
............... .........................................___................ .__.__. _. ...................................................... ...............
/a  Current to 1993. constant thwleftor.
lb  As.,n anticipated finaircin  of iwnntWry and woed Industries training.
A   Asns, a colleetion rate o  104 in year 1  307 in year 2. 4*5  in year 3.  nd 560  in year 4 oneards.
/d  Includes replac.nt costs after project period.
/0  Interet at .55 per year fhr 50 yers. wIth a 10 yr grce period on prIncIpal.
Nay 20. 198t 13:08



__  IM          s.c.    S    0   14    9    3               -    -      -      _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L - is     _2  .2
1.Vc1mfaufd                   73
Oagq ad
16
12
Nail nquzatS~                 40
PNaUq a~               12
Otaft go              ~~~~25
ml-f         -    ~            43
PIN"                           10
CNP        a~~~~                                                   aa                                       
us ImOD
yts  AN                                                         2e                 24                 al                 24                24
a    ga.a t1m                                    34                34                 SI                 54                 s4                a
am adt*                                          42                42                 42                 4                  42                4
O             - I I_                                   3                   3                  3                 3                  3
0    -                                                 4                   4                  4                 4                  4
&*-WA ondsp)                  319    1    1    121    8    1    121        8   1      121     a   1      12     a    I      12     8   I      121
am at w #U   150I
(P&'UO)                      4t6        t8t.5 16.15    5   381. 512    1.331.3121.5  16.12 1.3  t312    1.3    131 31 1.5    13
lb. o7f fkt 
. ug
1000l2w 5    16   40
vxas  la              112     3         left go                   a            D9    a            a    2              
t<_ama                               39 1.   3:5 11.5S                lt  41.0  3   4t0   Al4   1.3   21   41    13  t0  41   I.J  2s1
"a 00)                       IIOD
aa                            4 0 s oS                                    i           i      14          5    12            77   11            10
am"  id                      MD               11        -                                    1278      1C                 1270              12
ftm   If .                                     I0aD              102                 1020               mmn               10
Wmis (Ui'00_)
-do(Lob go J/                 372
Pllbw (10 9ia)                16                685   144         912   144          912  1U4           a5   115            73   IOS          472         ' I  : 
R Ct I (0tb 10e)              192              1219               1219                219               1219               129               1219         *1 
Ib2@ aU (Ub 2ea)                               193 i              1NM19                                 1956               193
TX"                          1r                        44                14    41 1-   134              4     1152  l      316   1CkS        31
briaw    ad haft of old atuW.
pauxaihe "  ct ad st    , a .          uridas km  s du.
pi Fats  2 x 2-a (QW.
111190 Uu0/aWq. mm ait miS td. 40 tm0/aM 213 s1.3/2 may1g.
j   2    (IDi 22.000as), 2 lm  (?7,n) 3.     (7,200). 1 tU11.(  . I bam  (21.60).
y 3  (D 22,000 cm) 1, I 1 (9,=, 3 b_ (21,WP.
M W_ 24 uV3 Y1 sM  idth 21  g                   1w hattg. 63    for pale.. A   g batt d       atar .14 y     to 11 o;   lup  u? 16U; t*W? 0.6m. 1Bch
~ ySalb 1 Om I p.   - I C    11 rola. 0.012 pS fi+ w L total St= auad 0.043 0 (eiot) or O7S 3 asd (      ).
V   Oalq 7Z of at   yseldft S  3  fr a  pt. NlU fzrm to 30 33/u1  fL=t to a*Wm zsUamN6 2*.1ftwIg (3zX    In MI *ac gotz.
ml   inq  Fim .311, Kopa  A Am, at    ,  13 11.. _. ut3a nIt .
ad 1/64 pr-m  eSbotd fw blind.  1313 ad U5



&S I *91 U   
a;:s1 SI It 4241111
6USE      -           1        12t  t-    n          4        to"      2-          to        UK       2            0 to     UK       2-           it6    £0Slt        -          09-                      )SISU
^   6985  -          162       9152     -           Sil       2oo0     -           Ott      6it"      -           b"       6so        -           "I       got       -           -        @LSI          *%to
*                  @12      2           18        012 I                 1o      o0l        a           to       Ott       I           lb       Ogg       C           a        at        I           ab        I @9  £
____.............. ...........................____............__............ . .... ... .... ..... .. .. .. . ... . ... ..... ... . ...   _   _..............................
clog     tt1102-01    6am      gm   s o00-00t 60             t8 0tt-O £O                     000O        51-9881 2655       968   S    681 2688t6 3t61  1685         161-066 6895          "St
..... ...... ....
Nhl2i OM6 1IIU1113111O IV *n31UI
UilKuId 01138)  319A;4.
lI3OWI 1591338 110
1WM loivilll""N37 AGSn
"NM
L33a05  3011168535110



- 80 -                                 Annex 6
Table I
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tralning Program
TYPE OF TRAINING                                          PROJECT TRAINING
UNIT   0    1    2    3    4    5    6    TOTAL
1. STUDY TObAS
Overseas (Indust. Softwood)                 mm      -    3    3    3    3    -    -        12
Kenya/Uganda (CARE FP)                      as      -    5    -    5    -    5    -        15
Overseas (Principal of NPC)                 mm      -    -    -    3    -    -    -        3
Overseas (Wood Utiliz. Nakawa)              mm      -    -   17   11    -    -    -       28
Overseas (Seed Collec. & Dist.)             mm           -    3    3    -    -    -        6
-    8   23   25    3    5   -        64
2. FELLOWSHIPS
Indust. Softwood Plantations                mm      -    -   12    -    -    -    -       12
Farm Forestry (FD Takeover)                 mm      -    -    3    -    3    -             6
NFC (Farm Forestry)                         mm      -    9    -    -    -    -    -        9
-    9   15    -    3    -     -      27
3. KAKERERE UNIVERSITY
Farm Forestry (PD Takeover) a/              mm      -   24   20   20   20   20    -      104
4. NYABYEYA FORESTRY COLLEGE
Teacker Training b/                         mm      -    6    -    -    -    -    -        6
Foresters/Forest Rangers (FF) c/             -m     -    -   44   44   40   40   40      208
DFO/FO (Professional Management) d/         mm      -    -   10   10   10   10   10       50
Foresters (Refresher Courses) ei            mm      -    -   40   40   40   40   40      200
Forest Rangers (Refresher Courses) f/       mm      -    -   60   60   60   60   60      300
Forest Guards (Refresher Courses) j7         m      -    -   30   30   30   30   30      150
Orientation Courses 6 Workshop h/           mm      -    -   25   25   25   25   25      125
Enrichment Planting Technique               mm      -    8    8    8    8    8    8       40
SUB-TOTAL                                     -   14  217  217  213  213  213    1079
5. AGROFORESTRY RES. & DEMON. CENTERS
Farmer Training (FF) 17                     mm     -    -  120  120  120  120  120       600
GRAND TOTAL                            mm     -   55  395  382  359  358  333    1842
Notes:  a/  One, two month course for 12 PO's in year I and for 10 FO's/year thereafter by
project and 2 F0's/district (52) will have received training.
b/  One, one month course for 6 NFC teachers In year 1.
c/  One, two month course for 22 Foresters and Forest Rangers in years 2 and 3 and for
20 F/FR's/year thereafter.  By project end 4 F/FR's/district (104) wlll have
received training.
d/  One, two week course/annum for 20 DFO/FO's.
e/ One, two month course/annum for 20 Foresters,
Ti One, two month course/annum for 30 Forest Rangers.
j/ Two, two week courses/annum for 30 Forest Guards at a time.
h/  Ten, one week workshops/annum for 10 persons at a tlme.
T/  Eight, one week courses f,'r 20 farmers at a time at the 3 ARDC's.
Note: Sawmill trainees are not Included: numbers are not known at this time.



- 81 -                          Annex 6
Table 2
Page 1
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Physical Targets
Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5    Yr 6   rotal
Energy Farming
Seedlings produced
('000)                 300      550     750    1050    1425       1575   5700
FD Plantings (ha)      100      150     150      150      175      175    900
Private planting (ha)   -        50     100      200     300       350   1000
Road rehab. (km)         3        5       7        9       12       14     50
Road maintenance (km)   -         0       7       11       15       19     55
Farm Forestry
Districts involved
NGO "Spearheading"
Operations            6        5       5        5       5         5      5
FD Takeover Operations  5        11      11       16      16        21     21
Total                   11       16      16       21      21        26     26
Accumulative Nursery Establishment and Seedling Production
NGO Spearheading Operation
Nurseries (no.)        100      200     300      400     500       600    600
Seedlings (million)      1.0      3.2     6.0      9.0    12.0      15.0   46.2
FD Takeover Operation
Nurseries (no.)        220      220     220      220     220       220    220
Seedlings (million)      6.6      6.6     6.6      6.6     6.6       6.6   39.6
FD New Nursery Establishment
Nurseries (no.)         55      110     135      160     185       210    210
Seedlings (million)      0.6      1.8     3.0      4.0     4.8       5.4   19.6
Totals
Nurseries (no.)        375      530     655      780     905      1030   1030
Seedlings (million)      8.2    11.6    15.6    19.6    23.4        27.0  105.4



- 82 -
Annex 6
Table 2
Page 2
Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5    Yr 6   Total
Rehabilitation of Industrial Plantations
Pruning 2m (ha)        150     160                                       310
Prunilng 5a (ha)       7S0    1000                                      1750
Thinning let (ha)      300     500    1000      900                     2700
Thinning 2nd (ha)      100     300      700    1100    1400       800   440C
Thinning 3rd (ha)      100     200     500      800     800       300   2700
Final felling (ha)    100      100      200     300     500       800   2000
Sawmill input
ca3acity required
(a3)               30,500  38,500  83,500 128,500 181,000  209,000 671,000
Plantation estimate
New (ha)                 -       -      150     200     200       200    750
Reforest (ha)            -     200      200     300     500       800   2000
Total (ha)                     200      350     S00     700      1000   2750
Road rehab. (km)        15      27       53      37      35        43    210
New roads (km)                   6        6       6       6         6     30
Natural Forest Msnagement Rehabilitttion
Planting Program and Plant Requirements
Encroachment
Area (ha)              300    2000    3000    4000    4000      4000  17,300
Plants ('000)           40     300     400      600     600       600   2,540
Enrichment
Area (ha)              200    1000    1500    2000    2000       2000   8,700
Plants ('000)           30     140     200      300     300       300   1,270
Demarcation Natural Forest
Boundary (km)                  150     450      750                     1,350
Plants ('000)                   15      45       75       5         5     145
Demarcation Savannah
Hectare ('000)                 200      150     130     100        52     632
Plants ('000)                   92      69       59      46        24     290
Total Plants ('000)    70      647     714    1034      951       929    4,275



- 83 -
Annex 6
Table 2
Page 3
tr I   T  2   Tr 3   Yr 4    Yr S    Yr 6   Total
Reft lmet and Charcoal Produectig
Area refined (ha)    1500    1975    2500    2625    2825      2825   14,250
Charcoal ('000 too)    15      20      25      26       28       29      143
Total                1515    199     2525   ;b51    2853       2854  14,393



- 84 -
Annex 6
Table 3
UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Activities Draft Staffing Plan
Staffing Requirements at Full Development
Forest
Field Operations            Officers    Foresters    Rangers    Guards
Peri-urban Woodlots                           6           6          12
Industrial Plantations           6          25           55          74
Research/Seed Centers            9            4           7           8
Sawmill Training                 7            5           1           -
Inventory                        7           2           15          30
Boundary Demarcation/THF                      1           2          14
Savannah                                      3           4          18
Encroachment Planting                         3           5          12
Enrichment Planting                           7          10          20
Revenue Collection                           12          20         144*
Natural Forest
Conservatior.                  3                                   12
Charcoal Extension                            1           1           4
Nurseries                                     1           3           8
Farm Forestry                   26          66           90         112+
Total                           58          130         209         446
Supervision and NFC
District Forest Officers        33
Regional Forest Officers        10
Headquarters Support            15           10                     *
Nyabyeya Forest College          8           4                        4
Grand Total                    124          134         209         450
Establishment:                 160         215          307         600
* Staffing requirements for revenue collection and at HQ have not yet been
worked out in detail. The staffing plan does not include certain
activities not covered by the project e.g, wood quality testing for
export. The table will be reviewed as part of the initial AWP.
+ At full development i.e. in 26 districts.



Annex 6. Chart i
- 85 -
UGANDA
FOREST REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Project Project Year Project Year Project Year Project Year Project Yewr Polject YeOr
Prepay     1           2                     4          5          6
4987      1988        1989       1990       1991        1992     1993
* |2|3|4  1 1213  4 4 *_21 341 12  344 4 2 41i   21 3    1| 2  34 123
ENERGY FARMING                      _                                                        I
Nursery Rehob. (6 nurserfs)                    _
Planting of 900 ha ot govemment
plantotions
Plntn of 1000 ha at Interabed                          _
Pilot Wood Farms
FARM FORESTRY'
EstobUshment of oO0 nurstrleser c bV.
NGd spearcting operotns                 _         L           _          _ 
-privote pbrnting of seedlrnp                                     ___s
Estabcshment of 2  nd    nurserint 
bV UFD                                             ___lr!- 
-prhate pinging of s2d0nags
Estabilshrnet of 3 ogroftrslyrese4rchA |            l._&i               i         
demonof  ntseres                                              1                   I
NADURAL FORESTMAW   ENTAGEM N REHAB.                I 
Boundary dem,                                             rr         |1|  t!  o1   
Encrooch aft and enrk   t         I               *    *    - * - -             I - m .       I      _   I
planting of 26.000 ha                                i
Demorcotlon of natur  meerest                              l               I       Ii1        i             I
INDusTRIAL SOFTWVOOD PiANTATION REHA                                                       
Rehab. of13.900 hoof standgno                                          L       
plantaHot_                                               4                        §l      Ti    
Now pbonting of 2.750 ha                            l     }l}        ll        l }}~      
FOREST DEPT. REHAB.
Annual work program preporroon
Rehab. of offcesand housing                  _                  U -  mE               I      i
Technical assi ance                          _                     - 
RESEARCH
Estoblshment of Seed Centers at
Nakowa and Fort Portal
TRAItNlG                                            I
Rehob. of Nvabeya Forest Colege                                      .
Rehaib. of Nokowa Sowmill andi|!                                        i                   i            |i
Loging Operottons Tmg. Center                     I                                       i
tI-service training                                 I                I         - U   -
STUDIESI                                                                                   I
Fosewt iventorV                       i          !                      i  ;          ' _
Timber marketing study v
Encroochment study                 1      -                        i L           11  1      L LLLiL
.Vorid Ban-30824



Annex 7
- 86 -                         Page I
Table I
Summary of Technical Assistance Provisions
Expertise                                                 Total Manmonths
Natural Forest Management
Forestry Management Specialist                                  42
Inventory Specialist                                            16
Computer Programmer                                              4
Charcoal and Forest Management Specialist                        6
Natural Conservation Specialist                                 72
Plantation Management
Plantation Management Specialist                                12
Social Forestry#
Project Manager                                                 72
Assistant Manager                                               72
Sociologist                                                     72
Environmental Monitor                                           72
Agroforestry Training Officer                                   72
Volunteers (3)                                                 216
Training 
Forestry Training 17                                            41
Sawmill Design Engineer/Operations Trainer                      14
Saw Doctor                                                       6
Logging Operations Trainer                                       6
Planning and Management
Project Coordinator                                             51
Financial Controller                                           45
Senior Forest Planner                                           45
Procurement Manager                                            42
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist                             8
Building Supervisor                                             10
Auditing of Accounts                                            10
Research
Silvicultural Specialist                                        6
Studies
Timber Marketing Study:  Pulp and Paper Marketing Analyst    3
Mechanical Woodproducts Analyst       4
Encroachment Study:  Forest Economist                            3
Sociologist                               3
Milling and Logging Equipment Inventory:
Sawmill Operations Specialist                                 2
Total                   .
Of whlch CARE grant                     576
0 To be provided by CARE on a grant basis.
/7 33 months of forest trainer training and all sawmill and logging may be
financed by UNDP.



-87-                         Annex 7
Page 2
Terms of Reference for Principal Technical Assistants
A. PROJECT COORDINATOR (PC)
Location:       Kampala
Starting Date:  Last 9 months of year 0.  (April ', 1987)
Duration:       61 months
Duties:         The Project Coordinator would have executive authority with
a rank comparable to that of a Deputy Chief Forest Officer
and be responsible directly to the CFO for the management
and implementation of the project. He would be assisted by
a Project Implementation Team (PIT) which would answer
directly to him and be responsible for the four technical
divisions (see FD Organization Chart, Annex 8). He would
also be responsible for training a suitable counterpart to
take over from slim in year 4 of the project. In the 9
months prior to project start-up, he would assist the FD to
prepare, plan and make adequate arrangements for the rapid
mobilization of project resources following loan effect-
iveness. The PC would thereafter be fully responsible for
the ongoing coordination and Implementation of project
activities over a further period of 48 months. The PC's
duties during the preproject period would be as follows:
(a) Assist FD to compile, review and update the relevant
standing orders, technical orders and notes
appropriate to proper project execution;
(b) Run workshops for the professional staff from Head
Office and the Regions at which project issues,
constraints and solutions would be identified, clear
objectives and target dates set for the initiation of
various project activities and how these would be
integrated between each of the components;
(c) Assist the CFO to identify most appropriate forest
officers from within the FD to undertake specific
(d) Allocate the responsibilities for various components
of the project; improve quality and regularity of
management information between districts and regions,
regions and FD Headquarters;
(e) Arrange, with the assistance of the Procurement
Manager, for procurement under preproject financing to
be undertaken and the procedures to be completed



- 88 -                          Annex 7
Page 3
for the release of tender documents under World Bank/
EEC regulations for international competitive bidding
on project equipment, vehicles, and materials once
loan negotiations are completed;
(f)  Strengthen the links between the FD and appropriate
personnel of other departments 8.4 organizations
involved with project implementation; and
(g) Ensure consultants provided under technical assistance
are utilized effectively.
Qualifications: The candidate would be an experienced specialist in
forestry administration and management. He would have a
degree in forestry with at least 15 years experience of
tropical forestry in developig countries. His service
would include at least 5 years in a senior forestry
administrative position, preferably in Africa. The ability
to speak and write English clearly is essential.
B. SENIOR PLANNING OFFICER (SPO)
Location:       Kampala
Starting Date:  Last 9 months of year 0.  (April 1, 1987)
Duration:       61 months
Duties:         The Senior Planning Officer would be a member of PIT and
answer to the Project Coordinator. Under the general
direction of the PC, he would:
(a) Assist the Forest Planning Division prepare the annual
work plan and other quarterly and annual reports
connected with the project;
(b) Assist the Administration Division and NFC in
preparing the detailed training program (covering
study tours, fellowships, in-service training and
farmer training) needed for project implementation,
including the preparation of appropriate curriculum
for in-service training and refresher courses at NFC
and Nakawa;
(c) Assist those responsible for detailed planning of the
farm forestry, energy farming, natural forest
management rehabilitation, softwood plantation
rehabilitation and ED rehabilitation components to
finalize their plans and, in so doing, ensure there is



89 -                          Anrtex 7
Page 4
adequate coordination and deployment to staff to
achieve effective implementation.
(d) Carry out other duties concerned with planning that
may be passed to him by the PC.
Qualifications: The candidate must have a graduate degree (MSc equivalent)
in forestry and have had at least 15 years professional
experience, some of hich in managerial/planning positions
and at least 5 years in developing countries. He should be
familiar with the basic concept of economic analysis,
project planning and forestry administration. Fluency in
English is essential.
C.  FINANCIAL CONTROLLER
Locatior:        Kampala
Starting Date:  Last 9 months of year 0.  (April ', 1987)
Duration:        61 months
Duties:          The Financial Controller would be a member of PIT and
answer to the Project Coordinator.  Under the general
direction of the PC, he would:
(a) Be responsible for managing all financial operations
of PIT including the design and implementation of
accounting systems;
(b) Provide training for FD/HQ accountancy staff in
meeting the financial reporting and auditing
arrangements required for projects financed by IDA;
(c) Ensure the timely preparation of monthly and annual
accounts and the detailed budget;
(d) Assist the Finance Division of FD in all financial
matters connected with the project, including
management of special accounts.
(e)  Ensure that funding is available and the .low of funds
is smooth for the project operations;
(f) Ensure the proper recording and maintenance of all
inventories and fixed assets;
(g) Develop and conduct in-house training programs for
staff in the accounting units; and
(h) Prepare quarterly and annual written reports on the
progress of the financial work of the project.



- 90-                           hAnnex 7
Page 5
Qualifications: The Financial Controller must have professional
qualifications in accounting and/or equivalent university
degree, at least five years experience as a Chief
Accountant or Controller, and experience in developing
countries &nd in projects financed by the World Bank or
other international organizations.
D. PROCUREMENT MANAGER
Locat$on:        Kampala
Starting Date   Last 9 months of year 0.  (April 1, 1987)
Duration:        41 months
Duties:          The Procurement Manager would be a member of the Project
Implementation Team and answer to the Project Coordinator.
Under the general direction of the PC, he would:
(a) Be responsible for all project procurement matters
including schedule of requirements and implementation
program, recruitment of consultancy services,
preparation of specifications, identification of
potential suppliers, preparation of bid documents and
publication of invitations to bid, preparing bid
evaluation reports, preparation of contract documents,
contract administration, monitoring of delivery of
goods, etc.
(b) Be responsible for setting up a proper warehouse
management and inventory system;
(c) Design and develop procedures and systems for
controlling and recording procurement action;
(d) Prepare monthly and quarterly statements of
procurement accounts;
(e) Prepare quarterly reports on procurement achievements;
and
(f) Run in-service training sessions on procurement and
related matters.
(g) Under PPF, he would prepare procedures and bid
documentation for all items to be procured in the
first year of the project. He would also handle
procurement of items purchased under PPF.
Qualifications: The candidate should have an appropriate qualification,
probably in accounting or in engineering, and have at least
10 years experience of procurement in developing



91 -                             Annex 7
Page 6
countries. It would be an advantage if the candidate has
had experience with procurement on IDA funded projects.
E. BUILDINGS SUPERVISOR
Location:        Kampala
Starting Date:  Three months of PPF
Duration:        10 months (two months at a time for 4 years)
Duties:          The Buildings Supervisor would be a member of PIT and
answer to the Project Coordinator. Under the PC's
guidance, he would have responsibility for the following:
(a) Studying buildings design for all grades of housing to
be constructed for FD staff, revising as necessary and
seeking approval from the Ministry of Housing and
Urban Development;
(b)  Preparing Bills of Quantity for each type of building;
(c) Preparing LCB bid documents for all new housing/office
requirements;
(d) Preparing LCB documents for imported goods used in
building program;
(e) Giving guidance on the evaluation of tenders and award
of contracts;
(f) Studying building rehabilitation requirements,
including those at Nyabyeya Forestry College, and
preparing carefully documented specifications and
instructions for all rehabilitation within each Forest
Station;
(g) Arranging the supplies program for all building
materials for each Fozest Station; and
(h) Giving guidance on the preparation and approval of
payment certificates.
(i) Under PPF, he would prepare desigiis and bid documents
to be constructed in the first year of the project.
Qualifications:       The candidate should have an architectural or quantity
surveyor's background with practical low cost building
experience. The candidate need not be a professional
but should have had some technical training in
building. The candidate will be expected to work with
technical staff in the Ministry of Health and UFD.



- 92 -                        Anex 7
Page 7
F. MONITORING AND EVALUATION SPECIALIST
Location:        Kampala
Starting Date: Year 1 (January 1, 1988)
Duration:        8 months (one month/year in years 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 and 3
months in year 3).
Duties:          The M&E Specialist would report to the Project Coordinator
and be a member of PIT but would work in close association
with the M6L Unit in the MAF. He would help the head of
the. MAF's M&E Unit establish a MAE program for the forestry
project. Specifically he would:
(a) Advise on the parameters to be used to measure
progress;
(b) Design necessary sociological, economic and marketing
surveys;
(c)  Train M&E staff in appropriate technologies;
(d, Provide guidance on the analysis of data collected;
(e) Provide guidance on the preparation of progress and
other reports; and
(f) Introduce modern computerized technology for project
monitoring.
Qualifications: The candidate must have a graduate degree in economics
(with statistics and sociology) and at least 5 years
working experience In developing countries in the conduct
of agro-economic surveys and supervision and control of
field enumerators.
G. CARE'S PROJECT MANAGER (Expatriate)
Location:       Kampala
Starting Date: January 1, 1988
Duration:        72 months
Objective:      Overall responsibility for all CARE's spearheading field
operations, procurement and budget management In order to
attain project targets.
Duties:   (i)   Close liaison with Forest Department headquarters
(particularly with the Project Coordinator DCFO (Technical)
and Head of Farm Forestry Extension Service), Regional and
District personnel and other related Government
Departments, agencies and organizations.



93 -                          Annex 7
Page 8
(ii)   Supervision of Project Assistant, Environmental Monitor,
Training Officer, Sociologist and other support staff.
(iii)   Er-sure training of Forest Department personnel is carried
out to appropriate levels.
(iv)   Establish and maintain all required records on field
activities, training, financial, equipment inventory and
personnel.
(v)   Carry out advisory visits in areas handed over to Forest
Department to check on continued progress.
(vi)   Prepare and submit reports as required by CARE, IBRD and
GOU.
Qualifications: The candidate would be an experienced specialist in farm an
agroforestry. He would have a degree in forestry with at
least 10 years experience in tropical forest in developing
countries. His service would ideally include at least 5
years work in Africa. The ability to speak and write
English clearly is essential.
H. ASSISTANT P'.OJECT MANAGER (Expatriate)
Location:        Project Area
Starting Date:  July 1, 1987
Duration:        72 months
Obiectivet       To provide technical assistance and coordinate field-based
activities.
Duties:   (i)   In cooperation with the Project Manager liaise with Forest
Department staff at al' levels as well as other Government
agencies and organizations.
(ii)   Cooperate with Training Officer to ensure training program
is carried out efficiently.
(iii)   Ensure adequate information is collected in the field to
-maintain appropriate records.
(iv)   Work with the two counterpart Forest Department area
foresters to ensure smooth operations in their areas of
responsibility.
(v)   Responsible, through the Forest Department area foresters,
for the distribution of materials, financial payments, and
supervision of transportation in operating areas.
(vi)   Whatever other duties assigned by the Project Manager.



94 -                          Annex I
Page 9
Qualifications: The candidate would be experienced in social and
agroforestry. He would have a degree in forestry and at
least five years experience as a practicing forester in
Uganda. He would need to write and speak English clearly.
I. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITOR (Expatriate)
Location:          Kampala and Project Area
Starting Date:    October 1, 1987
Duration:          69 months
Objective:         Conduct environmental analysis of farm forestry
activities and make recommendation to project management
concerning environmental aspects of farm forestry.
Duties:          (1)  In cooperation with the sociologist, prior to start-
up spearhead activities in new districts, the
Environmental Monitor (EM) will collect baseline data
on the enviromental profile of the districts,
socio-economic profile of the districts and farming
systems within the districts. Other data will be
specified according to general site conditions.
(ii) Conduct ongoing monitoring of project activities
(including FD Takeover Operation), updating baseline
data and making appropriate recommendations for
implementational improvements. Much of the data
collection will be conducted by local FD staff as part
of their basic studies.
(ili) Train FD staff in appropriate data gathering
techniques.
(iv) Provide for annual and mid-term appraisal teams
detailed environmental impact analyses of project
interventions. The exact format will be determined
jointly by the EM, the CARE PM and the PMU of the FRP.
(v) Collaborate with the Forestry Research Division of the
ARDCs in the establishment of appropriate on-farm and
on-station agroforestry research activities. Tied to
this will be preparation of specific studies of the
Inputs versus outputs of the various agroforestry
configurations promoted by the project.
(vi) Provide planning inputs to CARE project management on
all aspects of farm forestry implementation. This
would include assisting DFOs and RFOs 'n preparing
district level farm forestry plans. Special emphasis
will also be placed on cost recovery and privatization
of nurseries where appror7iate.



-95-                            Annex 7
Page 10
Qualifications:   The candidate should be experienced in farm forestry and
have at least 5 years overseas environmental work
experience, conducting environmental impact analysis and
farming systems analyses. He/she should have a MS in
forestry, agriculture or a related field as well as
computer skills and familiarity with Lotus 1-2-3, DBase
III, and Q & A.
J. AGROFOREST'RY TRAINING OFFICER
(Locally recruited by CARE)
Location:       Kampala and Project Area
Starting Date:  July 1, 1987
Duration:        72 months
Objective:       To train Forest Department personnel attached to the
project in the ski.lls of Agroforestry Extension.
Duties:   (i'   Develop appropriate training materials and methods for all
levels of participating Forest Department personnel.
(ii)   Arrange and carry out training courses for Forest
Department personnel in Uganda possibly including field
trips within Uganda or in Kenya to view established
Agroforestry interventions.
(iii)   Continually follow up on trained personnel to reinforce
as necessary.
(iv)   With Project Manager arrange to distribute relevant
information on Agroforestry to Forest Department personnel
as it becomes available.
(v) Liaise with those Government officers responsible for
training farmers through the District Farm Institute to
ensure that the material being passed on compliments the
Forest Department staff training.
(vi)   Whatever other duties assigned by the Project Manager.
Qualifications: The candidate would be experienced in farm and
agroforestry activities and have demonstrated ability in
teaching. He would have a degree in forestry and at least
5 years experience as a practicing forester in Uganda. An
ability to speak and write English is essential.



- 96-                           Annex 7
Page 11
K. SOCIOLOGIST
(Locally recruited by CARE)
Location:          Kampala and Project Area
Starting Date:    October 1, 1987
Duration:          69 months
Objective:         To design methods for and to carry out baseline socio-
economic data collection and analysis and continued
socio-economic marketing of project impact.
Duties:          (i)  In clese cooperation with the GM develop appropriate
techniques, questionnaires, etc., to enable
appropriate social data to be collected both as
baseline data and to evaluate project progress over
time.
(ii) Collect, or arrange to have collected, relevant
baseline data prior to spearhead start-up in new
district.
(iii) Analyze collected data and produce reliable reports to
the Project Manager.
(iv) Provide socio-economic impact reports for periodic
evaluation teams as appropriate.
(v) Whatever other duties assigned by the Project Manager.
Qualifications:  Minimum B.Sc. in Social Science with at least 5 years
Ugandan sociological experience. Prepared to travel
extensively within the project area, Computer skills.



97                           Annex 7
Page 12
L. TIMBER MARKETING SURVEY
(i) Terms of Reference for Mechanical Wood Products Market Analyst
Location:       Kampala, other relevant towns ir Uganda, Nairobi and
relevant European and Middle East Markets.
Duration:       Four months.
Qualifications: Degree in Economics and Engineering.
Experience:     At least 15 years experience in market analysis with at
least 5 years experience in mechanical wood products
marketing. A thorough knowledge of the current mechanical
wood products market in Europe and the Middle East,
particularly for tropical hardwoods.
Position:       Under the supervision of the project technical coordinator
and reporting to the Chief Forest Officer.
Responsibilities:
(a) Collect and review all existing documents and data on mechanical wood
products demand trends and future projections. Also collect and
review all other relevant data such as demographic statistics, housing
starts, GNP and per capita income statistics.
(b)  Interview relevant government and business persons on forest product
market trends and projections.
(c) Conduct field visits to sawmills, plywood mills and other mechanical
wood products factories to ascertain the type and quality of products
currently and potentially produced.
(d) Visit relevant institutions in Nairobi and selected European and
Middle East countries to ascertain the demand potential for Ugandan
mechanical wood products.
(e) Analyze the data on hand and prepare demand projections for likely
mechanical products, including sawntimber and plywood within Uganda.
Examine the sensitivity of such projections to such factors as
population growth and per capita GNP and income.
(f)  Prepare a report with funds on market trends and projections, anl
include all supporting data and information as well as details of all
assumptions.
(g) Make recommendations on actions to be undertaken by Government and/or
the private sector to re-establish an export market for Ugandan timber
products, and assess their cost.



- 98 -                          Annex 7
Page 13
(ii) Terms of Reference for Pulp and Paper Products Market Analyst
Location:        Kampala, other relevant towns in Uganda, Nairobi and
relevant European and Middle East Markets,
Duration:        Four months.
Qualifications: Degree in Economics and Engineering.
Experience:     At least 15 years experience in market analysis with at
least 5 years experience in pulp and paper products
marketing. A thorough knowledge of the current pulp and
paper products market in Centriil and East Africa.
Position:        Under the supervision of the project technical coordinator
and reporting to the Chief Forest Officer.
Responsibilities:
(a)  Collect and review all existing documents and data on pulp and paper
products demand trends and future projections. Also collect and
review all other relevant data such as demographic statistics, housing
starts, GNP and per capita income statistics.
(b)  Interview relevant government and business persons on forest product
market trends and projections.
(c)  Visit softwood plantations, assess their locations with relation to
population, assess the economics of establishing a pulp and paper
industry in Uganda, recommend on the appropriate location and revision
to softwood plantation planting program to insure sufficient supply of
raw material at minimum transport cost.
(d)  Visit relevant institutions in East Africa to ascertain the demand
potential for Ugandan pulp and paper wood products. These should
Include existing mills in Tanzania and Kenya, where product out-turn,
export potential to Uganda and import potential of pulp from Uganda
would be discussed.
(e)  Analyze the data on hand and p:epare demand projections for pulp and
paper products within Uganda. Examine the sensitivity of such
projections to such factors as population growth and per capita GNP
and income.
(f)  Prepare a report with on market trends and projections, and include
all supporting data and information as well as details of all
assumptions.
(g)  Make recommendations on actions to be taken by Government and/or the
private sector to establish a pulp and paper industry in Uganda and
assess their costs.



- 99 -                        Annex 7
Fage 1I 
M. FOREST INVENTORY
(i) Terms of Reference for Inventory Specialist
Location: Based in Kampala but with field work in all high forest
co4iferous plantation areas.
Duration of Assignment: Fifteen manmonths (initially 14 months, then one
month about 12 months later).
Qualifications: Degree in Forestry
Experience:  At least 12 years experience in forest inventory and
management (including woody biomass assignments), with at least two years
experience in tropical high forest inventory and management.
Position: Advisor in forest inventory responsible to the Chief Forest
Officer and working in conjunction with the officer-in-charge of the
Biometrices Section of the Resource Management Division and appropriate
official in the Ministry of Energy.
Responsibilities:
(a) Assist with drawing up program for the carrying out a management and
biomass inventory in nonprotected high forest and those coniferous
plantations not having a recent satisfactory inventory. The program
would include detailed specifications for methodology and the type of
sampling; manning schedules; and vehicle, equipment and material
requirements over the inventory period.
(b)  &Asist with planning procedures for these inventories, Including the
procurement of aerial photography for the designated areas at 1:25,000
scale, the procurement of base maps at 1:50,000; the initiation of
forest type mapping using up-to-date aerial photography; and the
logistics of moving teas and carrying out the inventory over all the
areas in which it is required.
(c) Initiate and assist with training programs for inventory crews. These
would retrain or train forest officers, forest rangers and forest
guards in basic inventory tecbniques as well as in the specific
methodology to be employed during these inventories.
(d) Assist with the early management of the inventories, including
personnel logistics and the carrying out of field checks.
(e) Assist with drawing up specifications and implementing destructive
sampling for defect studies and regression analysis to determine the
relationship between measurable parameters and the volume of
industrial wood as well as the volme or weight of woody biomass
normally utilized.
(f) Supervise the initial compilation and calculation of inventory results
In collaboration with the computer programming specialist.
(g) Continually involve counterparts in the planning, operational and
analysis procedures of the inventories so as to effectively train them
to assum full and competent control.



- 100 -
Annex 7
Page 15
(i1) Terme, of Reference for Computer Programming Specialist
Location: Kampala
Duration of Assignment: Four months (three months in the first year, and
one month a year later).
Qualifications: Degree in Management Information Systems or equivalent.
Experience: At least eight years experience in programming relating to
management information systems, with at least 12 months
experience in such systems aa they relate to forestry, biomass
assessments and programming for forest inventories.
Position: Responsible to the officer-in-charge of the Biometrics Section,
under the supervision of the Technical Coordinator and in
conjunction with the inventory specialist.
Responsibilities:
(a)  Review the inventory data (management and biomass) and draw up a
program for compiling and analyzing said data to obtain the necessary
outputs required for forest management and farm forestry
implementation programs.
(b)  Assist with regression analysis of volume parameters to establish
volume regressions for species groups.
(c)  Establish a a management information data base for use in planning
future forest resource development, management and farm forestry
programs. Such a data base would include inventory data, growth data
and forest product demand projections, as well as resource development
cost estimates and inputs and market prices for forest and woody
biomass products. The forest product market information would come
from market specialist hired under this project.
N. FOREST TRAINING SPECIALIST
Location:        Nyabyeya Forest College, New Fort Portal
Starting Date:  Nine months under PPF
Duration:        33 months
Duties:          The Forest Trainer -,uld be responsible for revising
existing and establishing new curricula for all forest
traiuing activities, including training and refresher
training. He would be directly responsible to the CFO, but
would form part of the project implementation team. In the
nine months prior to project start-up, he would review the
training needs of existing staff in the light of the
proposed project, review and revise curricula for rangers
and foresters, develop a work program for Nyabyeya teaching
staff and ascertain their training needs, and draw up a
list of equipment needs.



Annex 7
- 101                          Page 16
Through the project he would:
(o)   Continue to revise curricula as necessary;.
(b)   Participate directly in teaching as required;
(c)   Assure periodic participation of other FD members in
forestry teaching;
(d)   Identify appropriate overseas training programs;
(e)   Work with the Forestry Department of Makerere University to
revise University curricula, with particular emphasis on
field training and farm forestry;
(f)   Ensure closer liaison between Nyabyeya Forest College and
FD activities; and
(g)   Assist those responsible for farm forestry in preparation
of training courses at DFI's.
Qualifications: The candidate would be a forester with experience in field
operations and training, a degree in Forestry and at least
15 years experienceo He should have specific experience in
social forestry and training needs for effective farm
forestry extension. He should have well-established
contacts with forestry training colleges and universities.
0. PLANTATION MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Location:       Kampala and the industrial coniferoun plantations.
Duration:       Nine man months (three months initially then two months in
each of the next two years.
Qualifications: Degree il Forestry
Experience:     Minimum of 12 years experience in coniferous plantation
management with at least one year spent in developing
countries.
Position:       Reporting to the Chief Forest Officer and working with
senior officials in the Resource Management Division of FD.
Responsibilities:
(a) Carry out field inspections of the plantations and review any
existing management plans, compartment records and plantation
journals as well as any inventory data to hand.
(b) Finalize guidelines for pruning and thinning prescriptions for
Cupressus and Pinus species bearing in mind the lark of
silvicultural treatments over the previous 15 years.
(c) Assist with supervising the implementation of pruning and
thinning operations in the plantations, having first determined
in conjunction with counterparts the treatment for given
compartments.
(d) Assist with drawing up the technical prescriptions and overall
outline for revised plantation management plans.



Annex 7
102 -                          Paxe I7
P. WOOD UTILIZATION TRAINING
(For ir-ternationally recruited consultants)
(1) Sawmill Design and Operations Specialist
Location:        Nakawa (Kampala)
Duration:        14 months
Quallfication:  Degree in Engineering
Experlence:      Minimum of 15 years experience in the design and
operational aspects of the sawuilling Industry including at
least a total of 12 mouths experience in sammilling In
developing countries, preferably Africa.  Experience in
transfer of techno'ogy and in the preparation and
implementation of training programs.
Position:        Sawmill design engineer and training officer reporting to
the Chief Forestry Officer and ofticer-in-charge
Utilization Center.
Responsibilities:
(a) Redesignlino the Nakawa sawmill to serve as a training base for
sawmill operators, supervisors ard saw doctors, Wood flows must
be redesigned for maimum efficiency and the green chain and
timber drying areas improved. A conifer line will be included.
(b) Detailed diagrams for use in reconstruction uill be provided
together with necessary explanatory reports.
(c) Estimates will be made of demolition and reconstruction costs.
(d) Existitg equipment will be critically reviewed and additional
equipment items as well as spare parts for repairing old
equipment itemized and costed in line with the items shown in
Workinr Paper No. 6.
(e) Responsible for advising on tender specifications for the above
equipment and spare parts as well as for advising on tenders
submitted.
(f) Supervising the reconstruction of the mill and installation of
equipment.
(g) Responsible for drawing up syllabi and programs to train or
retrain sawmill operatlons and supervisors. Liaison would be
maintained with local sawmill owner/managers. Training would
include basic prinlciples and safety precautions as well as
specific operational training on equipuAnt present. Courses
would also be prepared and conducted for supervisors/managers on
operational management.
(h) Course materials would be prepared in conjunction with local
counterparts who would eventually receive sufficient knowledge
and experience under the guidance of the consultant to operate
Independently as instructors.



103 -                        Annex 7
Page 18
(i)  Conduct initial courses and supervise training carried out by
counterparts.
(ii) Sawdoctor Instructor
Location:       Nakawa (Kampala)
Duration:       Six months (two periods of three months)
Qualification:  Diploma or certificate in sawdoctoring
Experience:     Minimum of 10 years sawdoctor4Rg experience on both band
and circular saws. At least six months should have been
spent working in developing countries. Experience is also
required in the preparation and implementation of training
programs.
Position:       Sawdoctor instructor responsible to the officer-in-charge,
Utilization Center.
Responsibilitie



- 104 -
Annex 7
Page 19
Responsibilities:
(a) Drawing up syllabi and programs for training in harvesting
operationwi including felling and skidding. Training would
Include the basic principles as well as safety procedures.
Felling operations would include the use of both cross-cut saws,
bow saws and chainsaws. The maintenance and care of equipment
will also be included.
(b) Preparing course materials after reviewing local forest and
plantation conditions.
(c) Conducting training courses In conjunction with local
counterparts who would gradually assume greater responsibllity
for training with the successful transfer of technology,
Q. SILVICULTURAL RESEARCH SPECIALIST
Location:        Nakawa (Kampala) and field stations.
Duration:        Five manmonths 'spread over four years)
Qulifications: Masters in Forestry
Exuerience:      At least 15 years experience in forestry with at least 5
years having been spent In silvicultural research with some
tropical or sub-tropical experience.
Position:        Reliorting to the Principal.Research Officer and under the
eupervision of the Technical Coordinator, the specialist
would work with national counterparts In the Silvicultural
Research Section.
Responsibilities:
(a) Assist with collecting all available past research data on natural
forest silviculture and plantation species trials for the country.
Arrange for a eritical review of this data and compilation of relevant
Information for future reference.
(b) Conduct field visits to the more important field trials to assess
their future usefulness for research.
(c) Considering the results of past research and In conjunction with
national counterparts, design and initiate the establishment of new
and/or complimentary;
-    research plots to study natural high forest dynamics and
silviculture under various cutover and improve or enrichmenmt
conditions;
-    species, provenance and fertilizer trials In relevant areas.
The research conducted should be relevant and form part of a strategy
that considers the priority resource development objectives of the FD.



105 -                        Annex 7
Page 20
(d)  Establish criteria for the rehabilitation or scrapping of old research
trials and set out procedures for the rehabilitation of appropriate
trials.
(e)  Ebtablish procedures and schedules for the maintenance and wo)nitoring
of both rehabilitated old trials or plots, and those n4wly established
during the project.
(f)  Participate in some monitoring and ensure that data is being properly
collected, compiled and analyzed, and that plots are being properly
maintained.
(g)  Provide input into future research strategies and programs as to their
divection and content.
(h)  Make recommendations on books and periodicals to be purchased for the
Research Center Library.
(i)  Prepare periodic and terminal report on the research activities, as
well as assist in or prepare technical papers and articles on the
research being conducted.
R. CHARCOAL MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Location:        Budongo, Bunyoro and Mabira, Buganda
Duration:        2 months ASAP after start up followed by 2 month in years 2
and 3
Qualifications: Degree in forestry or equivalent.  At least 10 years
experience in the management of tropical high forest.
Extensive knowledge of charcoal-makirg both technical and
in the planning of large scale enterprises using labor
intensive methods.
In conjunction with the Utilization Officer and a Charcoal
Development Officer and in liaison with the relevant Forest
Department field staff to:
(i)   plan, organlze and Initiate a practical system of refining
the natural high forest, after logging, using charcoal
makers.
(it)   plan a cost-effective method of enrichment planting to
follow refining.
(III)   initiate a comparative study of low-cost traditional kilns,
i.e. long kiln, round kiln and Casamance kiln and decide on
what should be done if necessary to introduce and
promulgate the use of the most efficient type(s).
(iv)   to examine the marketing of charcoal and to look at the
possibility of Improvement through joint hiring of
transport or the formation of marketing cooperatives.



-106 -                          Annex 7
Page 21
(v)   to write a report on the results which can be used by the
Forest Department as a base for extending the use of
charcoal refining and enrichment to all areas of tropical
high forest logging activity.
S. NATURAL BIOMASS INVENTORY CONSULTANT
Terms of Reference for Consultant to Prepare Detailed TOR's,
Work Plan and Cost Estimates for the National Biomass Inventory
Background:        Under the proposed Uganda Forestry Project (UFRP)
provision is made for some US$650,000 to fund a
merchantable inventory of selected natural high forests
and plantations which would be used for forest management
and harvesting purposes. Provision is also made under
this project for assessing the total biomass of the areas
covered by this inventory.
In addition, under the ongoing IDA financed Second Power
Project, funds are earmarked for carrying out a biomass
inventory of the country's main fuelwood, pole and fodder
supply areas. It is intended that this be carried out in
tandem with the natural high forest and plantation
inventory.
Both inventories will be the responsibility of the Uganda
Forest Department (UFD). The UFRP technical assistance
component includes a forest inventory specialist and a
computer programming specialist both of whom would be
consulted on and associated with the national biomass
inventory. However, the national biomass inventory would
be done by another group of specialists under detailed
terms of reference still to be drawn up.
Location:          Based in Kampala but with visits to selected woody
biomass supply "watersheds" for the country's main urban
and wood deficit areas. Visits would also be made to
representative natural high forest and plantation areas
so that necessary linkages between the two inventories
can be determined.
Duration:          Three weeks including travel time:  twc in the field and
one preparing the detailed terms of rererence for the
consultants who worsld carry out the biomass inventory.
Qualification:    Degree in Forestry.
Experience:        At least 15 years experience in forest inventory
including the formulation, implementation and analysis of
biomass inventories. Experience in tropical forest
inventories and management would be an advantage.



-107 -                          Annex 7
Page 22
Position:          Consultant to the Chief Forest Officer working in
conjunction with the officer-in-charge of the Biometrics
Section of the Resource Management Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests and appropriate
officials in the Ministry of Energy.
Responsibilities: Determine the extent of the existing knowledge on the
quantity and quality of biomass in the country   This
assessment would include fuelwood, poles bWd fodder.
Collect and review existing data and information on
biomass in Uganda.
Ascertain the variation in the biomass types and identify
the priority areas to be included in the biomass
inventory so as to gain an understanding of the
logistical problems involved in carrying out the
inventory.
Assess the UFD's capabilities in regard to trained
manpower and availability of equipment (including that
which will be provided under the UFRP) to carry out the
biomass inventory.
Assess the suitability of existing satelite imagery
(landsat and spot) and aerial photography and determine
the need for further imagery and/or photography.
Draw up detailed terms of reference for the technical
assistance to be provided by consultants in carrying out
the national biomass inventory of selected priority areas
which would be undertaken with the US$2.5 million
provided by the Second Power Project. This would include
a detailed work plan and cost estimates showing man-month
requirements for each expert. Details of the expected
qualifications and experience of each expert would also
be provided together with full description of their
duties and expected outputs in terms of reports and
technical papers to support the completed biomass
inventory.
Prepare a standard IDA international competitive bidding
draft letter of invitation for bids from competent
consultants to carry out this inventory.



UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Forest Department Organization Chart
CI et FOt Ofcer
r ,         --1~1                                                   _    1 
(CZFO)
Deputy Chkff Forest Offtcor.  Projed IrnplerrenZ   Offtm                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Director of Forest eoc
nni  & Adrin. Services                  TOo                                                                                               4           Pa _  o)
'~~~~~~~~Frs   I:v F                                                                          ll
Forest Rsources Wood Eneray         Envromntal         Fxesonervm  c             CARE TA
Forest Planning          Senlor Paonrng        MaaeeiadPt                                Protection        xesTEMR.Di
Divison (ACFO)               OtflOe             Div (ACFO)          Div (AMF)           Div (ACFO)          D tvCO                                       e.Dv PO
Difisiotni                                                                                 _  Admin Extension                    ForestPrtec
_ Conftolbr                                                                              Specialist (N) iDv. [PRO)
Ffhuo,e DivWon_FndC^e 1 
_. ___ _                                    _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             ~          ~~~~ores O___ew  -_  __0
(AC-fO)
Admin Extension                    Forest Procucts   0
_ ro,                                                                                    Specialist (S                     Res. Div. tF90)
Admin iMston                                                                    o       Offic   t3
ancd Trainng 
DM31on JACFO)  0-                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Environmental
SpoiWV                                       AsM4 o        ors                          Admiln Extension                      Rs i
SUPOwbw                    Officers (33)                          ~~~~~~~~~~SPecialist (E]              (PRO]
Coilege
r,,FO)            ~~M&E                                            Fr MML                                Admin Extension
Speciais                                                                                 SPecWias (W
___________Technical Avices to                                                                                                                        World |ank-307Fe
Techricol Adv"c to                                                                                                                            World -30?730779



Pr~I
II    I il     1|      'It Eijti!|t :!I|  iij,,, il
WM MM         aM   !t                      0      U9 low   "Now        M
- --l-l    .----l*------ -                                                   I
-  --   - t   --   --  ---  ---  ---  --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -i
a  0  as  is              NO  low a   n NN* ~         ~    ~         '.5
wo             OWN MM"No            aU         U    M a U a                             0soIsso3 
"   so     No  a a               "NO          0    0 "No                                     t-4
_~~~~~~~ _ 
-  -  -                                             -  - S----------                      - -
.5I
----------------------        _-_--    ___------- r-------------
At~~~~f
.. - "I "                                          I! I......... -"" 0
-----------------------------; ------ -----------dK 
W  W         .         W                                    Now  "W.  .  
it~~~~~~~~
___-----    I                                   i-' S                                        F3
*~~~~~                                                             9
MI~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
6X@uf    i       -^                    ~~-60T-                            S



- 110-                                1. iex 10
PROPOSED REVISED STATEMENT ON UGANDA FOREST POLICY (1986)
The proposed revised Forest Policy of the Republic of Uganda is as follows:
1. To maintain and safeguard enough forest land so as to ensure that:
i) sufficient supplies of timber, fuel, pulp, paper and poles and
other forest products are availabe in the long-term for the needs
of the country, and where feasible for export;
ii)  water supplies and soils are protected, plants and animals
(including endangered ones) are conserved in natural ecosystems,
and forests are also available for amenity and recreation.
2. To manage the forest estate so as to optimIze economic and
environmental benefits to the country hy ensuring that:
i) the conversion of the forest resource into timber, charcoal,
fuelwood, poles, pulp and paper, and other products is carried out
efficiently;
ii) the forest estate is protected against encroachment, illegal tree
cutting, pests, diseases and fires;
iii) the harvesting of timber, charcoal, fuelwood, poles and other
products applies appropriate silvicultural methods which ensures
sustainable yields and preserves environmental services and biotic
diversity;
iv) research is undertaken to improve seed sources for planting stock
and the silvicultural and protection methods needed to regenerate
the forest and increase its growth and yield. Research is also -
carried out into new and existing forest products, including
tourism and education with the object of maximizing their
utilization potential. Research is undertaken to monitor and
promote the preservation of environmental services and conservation
of biotic diversity.
3. To promote an understanding of forests and trees by:
i) establishing extension and research services aimed at helping
farmers, organizations and individuals to grow and protect their
own trees for timber, fuel and poles and to encourage agro-forestry
practices;
ii) publicizing the availability and suitability of various types of
timber and wood products for domestic and industrial use and
publicizing the importance of environmental services provided by
forests;
iii) holding open days at regular intervals in all districts to
demonstrate working techniques and bring attention to the positive
benefits of forestry.
iv) promoting scientific research, environmental tourism, education,
and related activities inside the forest estate.



- 111 -
Annex 11
Material Available in Implementation Volume and Project File
The documents available in project files support the SAR and are
intended to assist UFD with implementatior. of the project. They are
indicated as SAWP (Staff Appraisal Working Papers); the whole volume is
entitled Implementation Volume.
1.  SAWP 1    Peri-urban Plantations and Pilot Wood Farms.
2.  SAWP 2    Farm Forestry Program.
3.  SAWP 3    Natural Forest Management Rehabilitation.
4.  SAWP 4    Rehabilitation of Sof.wood Plantations.
5.  SAWP 5    Forestry Department Rehabilt.tation:  Sawmill Training,
Nakawa.
6.  SAWP 6    Forestry Research and Seed Production.
7.  SAWP 7    Royalties for Wood Products.
8.  SAWP 8    lst of Concessions, Their Validity and Operational Status.
9.  SAWP 9    Forest Inventory.
10. SAWP 10   The Energy Context.
11. SAWP 11   Detailed Economic Analysis Assumptions.
12. SAWP 12   Forest Department Rehabilitation.
The following Preparation Report documents are available:
Uganda Fuelwood/Forestry Project Feasibility Report, March 1986 accompanied
by the following working papers:
Project File Working Papers
1. Peri-urban Fuelwood/Forestry
2. Expanded Farm Forestry Program
Appendix 1: Options for the Administration of Government Social
Forestry Rehabilitation
3. Energy from Charcoal and Fuelwood
4. Natural Forest Management Rehabilitation
5. Nature Reserves and Gene Conservation
6. Industrial Plantation Management Rehabilitation
7. Forest Industries
8. Softwood Resource Promotion and Development
9. Sociological Survey for Rural Tree-Growing
10. Forestry Department Management Rehabilitation
Appendix 1: Silviculture and Protection Research
11. Civil Works
12. Forest Inventory
13. Econcmic Analysis
14.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Bibliography



UGANDA
FORESTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
A      Project Peri-Urban Woodlot Areas
0     Existing Operat:onal Sawmills
fJtjri  Tropical High Forests                           Yun
ffL:zthUJi  Softwood Plantations
Maoor Roods                         )
Roilroads                                   RhLA
30              Rivers                            K   ARU        Off
o     District Capitals
- o -  Contours in meters                    ?
District Boundories               (
Internotionol Boundaries
GR.    NEBBI    Pokw
0     25    50    75   100 KILOMETERS
0       20      40      60 MILES
-20 ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     y
.                          --' WAMPANGA
;  ,      >G   HQIMA,
SEMiUKI
Natorre Resene)}
KAG&hiBF
V           yX^e     MWENGE a      
~ jKA8AROLf 
8j29'   ( MKIBALE Nntvre Resercl
J   /V3SYOi A AKITOMI 'Noli.w Rf' -e
,; 4/    .%   gIte}    ARMBARARA
' AWI.MGAM            H AYI
(Ncoture Rese    ' US    /      M      A        \
(/  >^+-BUS8Et9w )BA    ~RARA  JS      \
(RUKUj~I         ~WH 
MAFUc                                -
ECHUYgjW  .                   >
r    -  RWANDA
c "   30e                         31e
I      _               _  



IBRD 20050
taw,      32-                              33° 
ECT               so                      u   D    A.  N/                                                                         4
g  j-  {  \ | K~~~~~~~~~~~~AOTIDO  
fo .y' fro'WAL t     
X  ><t o    G i7         U        \,       )                    )ABERA
/                       APAWC<tUNG051~~~~'UGAOSM OSI'-                          X ORfO ra             0
Cc stolegef'* ^.-*jPIIE/r'  . J
iutema                                                 .               e         e        e<
rel    x   '~~~~4      Nokosongoa                        .         -                        IAtJOVs\
f A                               ArGJ
<<{§ualaSa  ' Akolootk50hG                       A                                  _ ~~~Poil_s
KAT'                       AgliG Ort~ 
S -      -      ]~~~~~~KALZ                                                M AL            ELGON 
- ~ ~ ~ ~   gv  ,il      R>    a        /UKNonogal                          /432,>
X   MP/G/, ^   nt         --.     ,   7 o- 'i   '., A         /
S g >        ,r ~, ') .  Eteb   , tW -< tPtKAMUL'                                                  3
g   A(S  KAS , '-  1  SWEDARNO 
D/ Cgaf ,.~~~~iN, ,- ,   tEHOPIA
\              /   S "7 "                                               /->HILLS)
/PA    K A /  r   n:   L   .N   ts          .'B   .   .l, .    |z                     ,       KoA      j     x
i ~ ~ UED                                 k                          .      zAIl            H 4 ,.;s,<  
_  .  .m>_.1  . . ,. ... | ._. ......Ut _ RAND6:  >
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRUDp /-- 7d  w
MUBENDZ                       A        NIE                                                      ANAI 
,>                                                                 \                 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,/
\ ,,:>  t  3?33e                                                        AMBI^ N
IGI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAY18



