Page  1
                            DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1824 UG
                               DANIDA Grant
                                 Agreement
                     (Forestry Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                          THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      as Administrator of Grant Funds
                              Provided by the
                  DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                          Dated January 11, 1988
                            DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1824 UG
                          DANIDA GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1988, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, as Administrator
(the Administrator) of Grant Funds Provided by the DANISH INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (DANIDA).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and DANIDA in the
financing of the Forestry Rehabilitation Project (the Project) described in
Schedule 2 to Development Credit Agreement Number 1824-UG, dated July 6,
1987, between the Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement);
      (B)   the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
      (C)   DANIDA wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in an
amount equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand dollars
($7,500,000) (the DANIDA Grant) to assist the Recipient in carrying out part
of the Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
      (D)    pursuant to arrangements, dated November 12, 1987, between
DANIDA and the Association, DANIDA has requested the Association, and the
Association has accepted, to administer the DANIDA Grant in accordance with
the provisions of those arrangements; and
      (E)   the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance
Page  2
extended to the Recipient under this DANIDA Grant Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by DANIDA to
the Recipient;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association", dated January 1, 1985 (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement subject, however,
to the following modifications thereof:
      (a)   the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of
the DANIDA Grant, pursuant to the arrangements between DANIDA and the
Association referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement, except in the
phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5) and 6.02 (e);
      (b)   the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
      (c)   the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the DANIDA Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
      (d)   the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General
Conditions, shall be amended to read "DANIDA Grant Account";
      (e)   Section 4.01. Shall be modified to read:
            "Withdrawals from the DANIDA Grant Account shall be made in
      dollars; provided, however, that, if the expenditures to be financed
      out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant have been paid or are payable
      in another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the
      Recipient and at the time of a withdrawal from the DANIDA Grant
      Account, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such with-
      drawal."
      (f)   in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
      (g)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient
      and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the
      Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      Project referred to in the Preamble to the DANIDA Grant Agreement,
      the performance by the Recipient and the Administrator of their
      respective obligations under the DANIDA Grant Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the DANIDA Grant";
      (h)   Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05,
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
      (i)   the term Borrower, whenever used in the General Conditions,
means the Recipient.
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term DANIDA Special
Account means the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Grant
Page  3
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to herein, a grant in an
amount of seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the DANIDA Grant may be withdrawn from
the DANIDA Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
      (b)   The Recipient shall, for the purposes of Part B of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank, through
the Bank of Uganda, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Administrator. Deposits into and payments out of the DANIDA Special Account
shall be made in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
DANIDA Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement, which is hereby incorporated into
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if it were fully set forth
herein. The references to the Association in said Schedule shall be deemed
to be references to the Association, acting as Administrator of the DANIDA
Grant.
      (b)   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for any such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant, and the Administrator
may, by notice to the Recipient, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this Agreement,
cancel such amount of the DANIDA Grant as, in the Administrator's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or such
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall
promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles
III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein. All references to the Association in said Articles shall be
deemed to be references to the Administrator of the DANIDA Grant under this
Agreement, all references to the Credit and the Credit Account shall be
deemed to be references to the DANIDA Grant and the DANIDA Grant Account,
respectively, and all references to the Borrower shall be deemed to be
references to the Recipient.
                                ARTICLE IV
            Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
      Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient shall be the
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala
            Uganda
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  4
                  FINSEC                        61170
                  Kampala
      For the Administrator:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      Section 4.03. In accordance with the arrangements referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement, the rights and obligations of the Administrator
under this Agreement may be transferred to DANIDA. The Recipient accepts and
agrees that, upon notice to that effect by the Administrator to the
Recipient, DANIDA shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice,
be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement as if DANIDA had been an original party to this Agreement, without
any further action or formality required on the part of any party, and, from
such date, the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations
as a party under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the DANIDA
Grant has been fully disbursed, and the parties to this Agreement have
fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                  By /s/ Francis Katana
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        as Administrator of Grant Funds
                        Provided by the
                  DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the DANIDA Grant
      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the
DANIDA Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
Page  5
      Grant Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategoryDollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)     Civil Works                1,200,000        100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            90% of local
                                            expenditures
(2)     Technical                  1,500,000        100%
    Assistance
    and Training
(3)     Vehicles,                  2,700,000        100% of foreign
    Furniture,                                      expenditures and
    Equipment,                                      90% of local
    Tools and                                       expenditures
    Materials
(4)     Incremental                1,400,000        90% for with-
    recurrent                                       drawals up to
    costs in-                                       an aggregate
    cluding staff                                   amount equiva-
    allowances                                      lent to $500,000;
                               80% for with-
                                            drawals exceed-
                                            ing an aggregate
                                            amount equivalent
                                            to $500,000 but
                                            not exceeding
                                            $1,000,000; and
                                            60% for with-
                                            drawals exceeding
                                            an aggregate
                                            amount equivalent
                                            to $1,000,000 but
                                            not exceeding
                                 $1,400,000.
(5)     Unallocated                  700,000
        TOTAL                      7,500,000
                                SCHEDULE 2
                          DANIDA Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant allocated from
time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $500,000 to
be withdrawn from the DANIDA Grant Account and deposited into the DANIDA
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
DANIDA Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Administrator has received satisfactory evidence that the
DANIDA Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the DANIDA Special
Account may be made as follows:
    (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Recipient for a
Page  6
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw
from the DANIDA Grant Account and deposit into the DANIDA Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
    (b)   The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator requests for
replenishment of the DANIDA Special Account at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Administrator shall withdraw from the DANIDA Grant Account and deposit into
the DANIDA Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the DANIDA Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments
made out of the DANIDA Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the DANIDA Grant
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the DANIDA Special Account
for which the Recipient requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b)
of this Schedule, the Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator, prior
to or at the time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the DANIDA Special Account shall be made by the
Administrator when either of the following situations first arises:
          (i)   the Administrator shall have determined that all further
                withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from
                the DANIDA Grant Account in accordance with the provisions
                of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
                Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
          (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the
                Eligible Categories for Part B of the Project, minus the
                amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
                by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
                General Conditions with respect to Part B of the Project,
                shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
                Authorized Allocation.
    (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the DANIDA Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the Eligible
Categories for Part B of the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the DANIDA Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the DANIDA Special Account:
          (i)   was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible
                pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
          (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Recipient shall, promptly
                upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into the DANIDA
                Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
                refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount
                of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
                justified. No further deposit by the Administrator into the
                DANIDA Special Account shall be made until the Recipient
                has made such deposit or refund.
    (b)   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the DANIDA Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator
Page  7
such outstanding amount for crediting to the DANIDA Grant Account.
