Report No. PID8732
Project Name                    Albania-Fishery Development Project (@)
Region                          Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                          Fisheries & Aquaculture
Project ID                      ALPE69479
Borrower(s)                     GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
Project Preparation Unit for Fishery
Development Project
Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Skanderbeg Square,
Contact Person: Mevlan Balilaj
Tel: 355 42 20822
Environment Category            B
Date PID Prepared               September 5, 2000
Projected Appraisal
Date                            March 19, 2001
Projected Board Date            June 21, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Key issues that need to be urgently addressed are summarized below.
Overexploitation of the demersal fish stocks due mainly to illegal
trawling by foreign vessels, nearshore trawling by Albanian fleets, and
the absence of fishery treaties and regulations.Inadequate capacity to
carry out essential government mandates, such as developing and
implementing a fishery sector strategy as well as key legislation,
negotiating bilateral agreements with neighboring counties, and monitoring
and surveillance of fishery activities. Inadequate management of fishing
port facilities and a lack of sanitation and hygiene standards.Lack of
information on stocks and harvesting of marine resources, which is key to
developing a strategy and regulations for sustainable fishery
development.Absence of community-based fishermen's associations to enforce
regulations and improve marketing. Lack of knowledge of modern
aquaculture technology and passive fishing techniques that can replace the
environmentally harmful fishing methods currently in use.
2. Objectives
A. IntroductionAlbania has considerable potential in the commercial
fishing industry for expanded employment opportunities, export earnings,
and other contributions to the national economy due to the country's
unique advantages in the sector--a long coast line, abundant inland water
resources, and proximity to lucrative markets. Unfortunately, development
of the fishery sector has been stagnant since the Government rushed into
privatizing state-owned fish processing facilities without putting the
proper institutional and legal framework into place. Consequently, there
is a serious vacuum in marine resource management, and unless there is
some intervention to build management capacity, Albania's unsustainable
fishing practices could deplete the country's valuable marine resources
within a few years.Although Albanian fishermen have recently formed an



informal fishermen's association, they are not yet formally organized to
act collectively, and without any regulations on the size, quantity and
composition of catches, or on marine reserves (closure periods, nursery
areas), they will remain in a 'fishing race' to garner the largest catches
and most lucrative territories. In addition, Albanian fishermen rely on
trawling the near-shore areas for demersal (bottom-dwelling) fish, which
destroys nursery beds and will eventually deplete resources. In the past,
they used Russian set nets (a passive fishing technique) to catch pelagic
(migratory) fish, but these nets were destroyed during the early 1980s.
Today, most of the fishing gear in use is totally obsolete and in
disrepair, and fishermen do not have sufficient funds to repair or replace
it. There are also numerous reported cases of dynamite fishing, which
devastates the entire marine ecology.Illegal trawling by foreign vessels
is also a serious problem. In the absence of Albanian monitoring, foreign
trawling boats are reportedly operating within as few as 12 miles of
Albanian territory. A study carried out by the FAO (report published in
1997) indicated serious over-harvesting of the demersal fish stocks on the
Adriatic and Ionian coasts, and there is an urgent need to start
negotiations with neighboring countries on sustainable management of the
region's valuable marine resources. Management of fishing port facilities
is also an important issue. Three of the country's five major fishing
ports are managed by commercial port authorities, which tend to focus on
commercial and passenger terminals and neglect the fishing terminals.
Consequently, the fishing ports are not maintained properly, and no
efforts are made to meet minimum sanitation and hygiene standards. Access
to potable water is severely limited, and huge piles of rubbish litter the
area, all of which affect the quality and marketing of the catch. The
lack of public fish markets forces fishermen to seek buyers individually,
and the lack of cold storage facilities forces fishermen to sell their
catch at extremely low prices, since they must discard their catch
otherwise. The capacity of the public sector is limited. The Department
of Fishery (DOF) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF) has
overall responsibility for the fishery sector, including planning a sector
strategy, developing and enforcing regulations, negotiating bilateral
agreements with neighboring countries, monitoring, and research. However,
because of its extremely small budget allocations and seriously limited
staff, the department is not able to carry out its mandates. Frequent
replacement of knowledgeable, key staff due to political pressure has also
weakened the department. Finally, a sound assessment of marine resources
is critical for formulating fishery policies and strategies, developing
sector regulations, and identifying the short- and long-term investment
needs for the sector. Albania has not been monitoring the size, quantity,
or composition of catches, and does not have any useful information on
marine resources at this time. However, conventional research methods
would require large expenditures of money and time and would overextend
institutional capacity, so it is critical to explore practical, affordable
ways of collecting such information.B. Project development objective:
(see Annex l)The main objectives of the proposed project are to achieve
sustainable use of marine resources and increase the household incomes of
fishing communities through a community-based approach. The proposed
project would also support the Government's initiatives to strengthen its
capacity in essential public functions such as research, training, and
regulation in the fishery sector.To achieve these objectives, the project
aims to carry out the following main activities: (a) development of
regional and national fishermen's associations (RFAs and NFA) to engage in
- 2-



various fisheries activities such as management of fish port facilities,
marketing, monitoring and control, and stock assessment, (b) restoration
of the original aquaculture capacity, and piloting modern high-value
aquaculture, and (c) policy and institutional support.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank Group has been involved in several projects worldwide that focus
on the development of community-based organizations and the transfer of
management responsibilities from the central government to these
organizations (e.g., water user associations). In Albania, IDA has been
particularly successful in advocating the importance of such
community-based organizations as partners to the central and local
governments (Water User Associations in the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project, Village Credit Committees in the Rural Development Project,
Communal Forestry Associations in the Forestry Project, and Street
Associations in the Urban Land Management Project). Various donors also
consider IDA projects as leading vehicles for support to Albania, and some
have already expressed their intentions to co-finance the proposed Fishery
Development Project. IDA's access to worldwide experience and expertise
in the fishery development field is also important in introducing new
technologies to Albania. For example, the set net techniques discussed
above are traditional and proven in East Asia.
4. Description
COMPONENT I. FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT (US$3.45 million)
Subcomponent 1 - Technical Assistance to RFA's (US$550,000) would support
the strengthening of regional fishery associations (RFAs) in order to
improve the management of fishing port facilities and promote self
regulation towards sustainable marine resource management. Because of the
total absence of enforcement of fisheries related regulations, there is
great concern about the depletion of marine resources. In addition, the
capacity of the Government to enforce any fishing regulations is very
weak. Thus, the future of the fishing industry depends entirely on the
ability of fishing communities to manage their own marine resources by
developing and enforcing sustainable fishing practices through their
associations. At present, the project plans to establish RFAs in six
regions-Shkoder, Lezhe, Durres, Vlore, Saranda, and Pogradec (on Lake
Ohrid). The mission proposes a phased approach for the technical
assistance:
Phase I (2001-2002). Fishing Port Management.
Phase II (2002-2003). Operation of Market Facilities.
Phase III (2004-2005). Resource Management.
Subcomponent 2 - Rehabilitation of Fishing Port Facilities (US$2.2
million) would aim to (a) carry out minor rehabilitation and improvements
on fishing port facilities in order to meet minimum international
standards of navigation safety and hygiene, and (b) support the RFAs'
management of fishing port facilities. The rehabilitation and improvements
would include buildings for RFA offices and storage facilities, minor
reclamation and rehabilitation on breakwater, and jetty improvement.
Subcomponent 3 - Marketing Support for RFAs (US$300,000) would aim to
-3 -



provide essential support for RFAs that have demonstrated sufficient
administrative and technical capacity to operate and manage fishing port
facilities in a satisfactory way. Such support would include collection
centers (small markets) for catches in Shkodra and Pogradec, and small
retail shops for Lezhe and Durres.
Subcomponent 4 - Surveillance Equipment (US$400,000) would aim to provide
RFAs with essential surveillance equipment to monitor their members'
activities, and to detect and respond to illegal fishing. Such equipment
would include night vision scopes, search lights, and radios for
communications with the navy and police. During further preparation the
feasibility of providing a transponder-based surveillance system will be
investigated. Such a system that uses radio transmitters via a satellite
to track vessels has proven to be very (cost) effective in other parts of
the world.
COMPONENT II. AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT (US$1.7 million)
This component would support the Government's effort to re-develop the
aquaculture sector in Albania. During the socialist regime, the Chinese
helped Albania develop a large number of hatchery facilities, mainly for
carp, using the nation's 650 irrigation reservoirs. Although aquaculture
was very popular at the time, it virtually ceased after the fall of the
communist regime. Very few activities have resumed, mainly due to the
absence of clear user rights to the reservoirs, and most of the hatcheries
have been left abandoned for a long time. Albania has good potential for
developing aquaculture given the country's geographic location and access
to both fresh and salt water. With the potential for exports and
increases in domestic consumption, aquaculture could play an important
role in Albania's economic development, and in alleviating rural poverty.
This component would support the culturing of the following species: (a)
carp, (b) tilapia (tilapia nilotica), (c) koran (salmo letnica), (d) eel
(anguilla angulila), and (e) shrimp (Penaeus japonicus). It should be
noted that this component would also include infrastructure works for: (a)
construction of a small hatchery for tilapia in Tapiza, (b) rehabilitation
of a state-owned deteriorated hatchery in Kavaja to establish a
demonstration center for shrimp and eel, and (c)
rehabilitation/upgrading of an existing state-owned hatchery for koran in
Linn.
In addition to these species, US$400,000 would be appropriated for
training the staff of the Fishery Research Institute (FRI), and further
demonstrations during project implementation period.
COMPONENT III.    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR (US$0.4
million)
Subcomponent 1 - Technical Assistance for the Department of Fisheries
(US$200,000) would mainly include: assistance with preparation of
technical documents for negotiating bilateral agreements with neighboring
countries, (b) legal assistance to support the Department of Fisheries in
reviewing various inter-ministerial laws, and (c) a training program for
the local fishing inspectors to carry out their new mandates (collecting
statistics, and inspection of RFAs).
- 4-



Subcomponent 2 - Technical Assistance for the Fishery Research Institute
(US$ 150,000) would mainly include: (a) technical assistance for
developing a business plan for the Institute, and (b) a training program
on stock assessment. The business plan would include: (a) a review of the
Institute's current activities including the operation of various
hatcheries, (b) development of an activity plan for each of the identified
activities describing required resources, and expected revenues, and (c)
development of an overall business plan for the Institute.
COMPONENT IV - PROJECT ADMINISTRATION (US$1.0 million)
This component would provide support for project administration and
implementation including incremental operation costs for a project
management unit (PMU), and essential technical assistance for project
implementation (e.g., financial management, procurement, auditing).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               1.0
IBRD
IDA                                      5.0
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                        0.5
Total Project Cost                       6.5
6. Implementation
The following are the main actors in the implementation of proposed
project: (a) the Government, (b) a Project Management Unit, and (c)
fishermen (regional and national fishermen's associations, or RFAs and
NFA). The roles of these actors are summarized below.(a) The
GovernmentMinistry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF). As the designated
executing agency of the IDA credit, the MoAF would have overall authority
for project implementation (including procurement, reporting, and
disbursement), and would be responsible for formulating and enforcing
fishery policies.Steering Committee. A Steering Committee would be
established within the MoAF to supervise the overall implementation of the
project. The committee would also discuss and approve all draft laws and
regulations to be developed under the project. The committee would be
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, and comprise the following five
other members: (i) the Director General of Fishery (ii) the Director of
the Agriculture Program Office (APO), (iii) the Director of Finance of
MoAF, (iv) the Director of the PMU, and (v) a representative from the
RFAs/NFA.Department of Fishery (DOF). The DOF would be mainly responsible
for the implementation of Component 2, Policy and Institutional Support.
In particular, the DOF will carry out the following tasks in collaboration
with the PMU: (i) developing technical documents for fishery treaties with
neighboring countries, and (ii) drafting laws and regulations on the
fishery sector. (b) Project Management Unit (PMU). A project management
unit (PMU) would be established within the MoAF and it will have direct
responsibility for implementing the project, and for acting as an
interlocutor between the Government, fishermen (RFAs), and the World
Bank. The PMU's main tasks will include: (i) facilitating the
establishment of RFAs; (ii) reviewing and approving detailed designs,
engineering studies, and tender documents prepared by consultants; (iii)
procuring goods, civil works, and consultant services; (iv) managing the
technical assistance component; (v) verifying and processing statements of
- 5-



expenditures and withdrawal applications; (vi) reporting, project
accounting, and auditing arrangements, (vii) preparing periodic progress
reports for review by the Steering Committee, IDA and other donors; and
(viii) monitoring and evaluating project impact. (c) Fishermen (RFAs).
RFAs will be the main vehicle for ensuring community participation in the
project at all stages, from planning to implementation. In particular,
these RFAs will be involved in (i) drafting and enforcing laws and
regulations; (ii) adopting alternative fishing techniques learned under
the project; (iii) operating and maintaining port and market facilities
developed under the project; and (iv) providing data on catches essential
for research (e.g., composition, quantities, age profiles).
7. Sustainability
The project aims to provide an appropriate policy and institutional
framework for technically, environmentally and socially sustainable marine
resource management and fishery sector development. To achieve this, the
project would: explicitly promote the participation of fishermen (the
major stakeholders) in day-to-day resource management and in managing the
small fishing ports and marketing facilities to be rehabilitated under the
project, through community-based organizations;strengthen the Department
of Fishery's essential functions in the public sector; and provide modest
superstructures for fishery ports, product marketing, and aquaculture
development which can be maintained by the RFAs themselves.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In fishery related projects, the active participation of fishermen from
the early stages of project preparation is extremely critical to its
successful implementation, and to achieving its goal of sustainable
utilization of marine resources. Nevertheless, few fishery projects
financed by bilateral or multilateral donors in the past have been
prepared in such a way. The results are often under-utilization of
infrastructure developed under the projects, overexploitation of
resources, and research papers of little practical use.Many fishery
development projects in the past aimed to establish both the
sustainability of natural marine resources, and the development of the
fishery sector with a mixture of the following activities: (a) research on
the stock of marine resources to identify total allowable catch (TAC), (b)
development of fleet capacity to increase incomes for fishermen, and (c)
strengthening of the public sector's supervisory capacity to enforce the
estimated TAC. However, such projects have had rather limited success.
First, it should be noted that it is extremely difficult to estimate the
total allowable catch (TAC) based on short-term research, as the marine
ecology is quite dynamic. Inaccurate estimations of the TAC usually lead
to overexploitation. Second, projects in the past over-estimated the
public sector's capacity to enforce regulations. Enforcement officers are
often poorly paid and unmotivated. In some cases, it was found that
governments tried to raise their own revenues by selling large numbers of
fishing licenses without considering the consequences. Third, the Bank
often supported the development of fishing without considering
diversifying fishing technologies or the potential for aquaculture,
resulting in increased pressures on specific species of marine resources,
and overexploitation. Lastly, past projects often did not involve the
direct stakeholders-fishermen-from the planning stages. Some projects
emphasized conservation activities such as development of public sector
marine research and surveillance systems, and formulation and enforcement
- 6 -



of fishing regulations without the participation of local fishermen. Such
approaches have indeed created conflicts between the governments and local
fishermen, and often prevented the projects from being implemented
successfully. The proposed project would assist the fishermen's
associations in beginning to manage their limited marine resources by
developing and enforcing sustainable fishing practices and regulations.
The project concept has been discussed on several occasions with
representatives of fishermen in all project areas, and is fully endorsed
by them, as the need to conserve fishery resources is becoming clear to
all. Furthermore, this project was designed incorporating lessons learned
from the Bank's lending experience in Albania. In Albania, the Government'
s capacity to enforce laws and regulations is generally weak, and
community participation has been extremely critical for successful project
implementation, particularly in the irrigation and rural development
projects.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        In principle, the project was designed to achieve
sustainable fishery development by paying careful attention to
environmental issues and potential impacts. During project
identification, it was found that overexploitation of demersal stocks is
the primary environmental and ecological issue to be addressed by the
project. Environmental Benefits of the ProjectAlbanian fishing fleets
consist mainly of small coastal otter trawls which are the most highly
developed type of trawl. These fishing boats have two "otter boards," one
attached at the right edge of the net mouth and one at the left edge,
which hold the net open horizontally and dredge it along the bottom of the
sea. This method is efficient for catching fish, but it is destructive to
coastal habitats because it levels the ground. Albanian fishing fleets
have concentrated on specific trawlable near-shore areas, which has
increased the pressure on Albania's demersal stocks. The project would
therefore aim to (a) develop regulations and bi-lateral treaties to
support the conservation of demersal stocks, (b) establish regional
fishermen's associations (RFAs) to supplement the Government's weak
capacity to develop and enforce such regulations, and (c) start collecting
information on catches and on stocks of marine resources. In addition,
because fishing incomes are generally low and unreliable, it was concluded
that it is crucial to explore alternative income opportunities for
fishermen. This is why the project aims to introduce new fishing
techniques, aquaculture, and support to fish marketing. Another issue is
the rapid decline in the stock of Koran fish in Lake Ohrid, which is
becoming a major environmental concern. Koran is a fresh water trout
endemic to the lake, and has a strong domestic market. The primary cause
of their decline is the increase in the number of fishermen on the lake
since the early 1990s due to the collapse of the state-owned enterprises.
The aquaculture of Koran is therefore expected to provide alternative
income opportunities for the residents of these towns, and reduce the
pressure on the wild koran in the lake.Potential Negative Impacts on the
EnvironmentDuring project identification several project activities were
identified as having the potential for negatively impacting the
environment: (a) aquaculture development, (b) introduction of alternative
fishing techniques, and (c) marketing development.(a) Aquaculture
Development. The project was designed to minimize the environmental risks
- 7 -



that might result from the operations of acquaculture facilities.
Worldwide experience during the 1980s has provided valuable information on
the major causes of the environmental problems associated with
aquaculture. These are: (i) ineffective land use, (ii) extraction of
scarce groundwater to fill ponds, (iii) discharge of effluents containing
nutrient and organic matters and seepage through pond bottoms, (iv)
overuse of drugs and other chemicals, (v) outflows of disease into
environment, and (vi) accidental introduction of farmed species into the
surrounding environment. In response to these lessons, the training center
to be developed under the project will adopt the completely closed
aquaculture production method that private aquaculture operations have
recently developed, in which water is recycled through a set of settling
ponds that do not allow discharge of any amount of water into the
environment. These ponds will be covered by heavy-duty PVC liners to
prevent leaching of organic materials or chemicals that would pollute
ground water. Small amounts of water replacement will be discharged into
the first settling pond daily, where large solids will filter down to the
bottom. Afterwards, water from the first pond will be sterilized in the
second settling pond, where the amount of dissolved oxygen will be
increased and the amount of dissolved ammonia will be decreased before
being sent back to the growout pond through a filter system. The
biological waste left in the first pond will be cleaned out periodically
and used as fertilizer for nearby agricultural fields. In addition, the
content of feed has been improved to minimize the risks of water
contamination and thus the need for treatment drugs.    The project would
also rehabilitate abandoned state-owned fish ponds in Kavaja and
deteriorated state-own facilities in Lynn; therefore, no new fish ponds
would be developed for this project.   No cage culture is envisaged under
the project.   (b) Introduction of Alternative Fishing Technologies.   This
component would introduce new fishing techniques (set nets and bottom
long-lines) as alternatives to conventional fishing practices. Currently,
Albanian fishermen are not catching pellagic fish or demersal fish on the
rocky bottom (in particular, off Shkodra coast, Saranda Coast, and Lezhe
Coast), and there is some expected potential for utilizing these marine
resources. While there is no firm data available,fishermen reported that
they had considerable catches of small and medium pelagic fish such as
sardines and jacks when they used set nets before 1982.The primary purpose
of introducing set nets and bottom long-lines, however, is not to develop
large-scale fish production, but to reduce the pressure on demersal
stocks. This equipment will be used as an incentive for fishermen to
organize regional fishermen's associations and regulate the fishing of
demersal species. It will also provide them with an alternative source of
income. In addition, the equipment will be used to collect important
information on pelagic fish and demersal fish in rocky bottom areas.
There is no recent data on Albanian marine resources, and information on
pelagic and rocky bottom demersal species is particularly lacking since
fishermen stopped catching them in the early 1980s. It would be
prohibitively expensive to carry out a stock assessment of pelagic species
since it would require hiring a research vessel and covering a large
area. The set nets would provide valuable data on the current pelagic
stocks which would later determine the allowable catch and the number of
set nets that can be installed by fishermen in the future. (c) Marketing
Development. The establishment of local collection centers could possibly
have negative environmental impacts, for example, on water quality, noise
levels, and traffic volumes. Fish cleaning activities at markets would
- 8 -



discharge water containing organic solvent and solid wastes which would
accumulate at the bottom of harbors and deteriorate water quality,
especially by decreasing dissolved oxygen levels. As a mitigation
measure, these structures would be equipped with septic tanks for settling
and biodegrading the waste. The noise and traffic resulting from
commercial activities would be nuisances to surrounding neighborhoods.
However, this would be minimal, as the project envisages constructing very
small one- to two-floor structures with less than 200 square meters. The
impact on residential areas would be negligible, as these structures would
be built adjacent to fishing ports, which are far from residential areas.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Toru Konishi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2351
Fax: 202 522 1164
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 17, 2000.
-9-



