Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23554-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR4.4 MILLION
(US$5.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO ALBANIA
FORA
PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 31, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2002)
Currency Unit = ALL
ALL 142 = US$1
US$0.704 = ALL 100
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DoF                  Department of Fisheries
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FAO                  Food and Agriculture Organization
FMIS                Fisheries Management Infornation System
FMO(s)              Fisheries Management Organization(s)
FRI                  Fisheries Research Institute
IFDC                 International Fertilizer Development Center
IMO                  International Maritime Organization
MCS                 Monitoring, Control, and Surveillence
MoAF                 Ministry of Agriculture and Food
WUA(s)              Water User Association(s)
PMU                 Project Management Unit
PPU                 Project Preparation Unit
PL                  post larvae
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:  Joseph Goldberg / Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader    Toru Konishi



ALBANIA
PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        4
2. Key performance indicators                                                           4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         16
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                            16
2. Financial                                                                           17
3. Technical                                                                           19
4. Institutional                                                                       21
5 Environmental                                                                        24
6. Social                                                                              29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      33



2. Critical risks                                                                    34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    34
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           35
2. OtherConditions                                                                    35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        46
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary                                                      47
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      54
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    64
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  65
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           67
MAP(S)
IBRD #31551



ALBANIA
PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: January 30, 2002                           Team Leader: Toru Konishi
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P069479                              Sector(s): AF - Fisheries & Aquaculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development; Social Development;
Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[] Loan     [X] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.60
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard. A variable rate between
0.0-0.5% of the undisbursed credit balance, set annually by
the Executive Directors of IDA and beginning 60 days after
signing.
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      0.57           0.20          0.77
IDA                                                           2.19           3.41          5.60
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                             0.19           0.10          0.29
Total:                                                        2.95           3.71          6.66
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
Project Preparation Unit for Fishery Development Project
Addrcss: Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Skanderbeg Square, Tirana, Albania
Contact Person: Mevlan Balilaj
Tel: 355 42 53345           Fax:             Email: mbalili@,icc.al.eu.org
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      20t5      2006       2007
Annual     0.10       1.73       1.30      1.25      0.72       0.50
Cumulative    0.10       1.83       3.13      4.38       5.10      5.60
Project implementation period: March 2002 - March 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 03/15/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2007
DS PAD F RF; Mach 2OtX



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
A. Introduction
Albania's fisheries sector has been in decline since the demise of the socialist regime and currently accounts for a
small portion of the country's economy. Only about 2,000 families are directly involved in fishing the country's
coastal waters and inland lakes. However, Albania has considerable potential in the commercial fishing and
aquaculture industries because of its unique advantages in geographic location, its long coast line, abundant inland
water resources, and proximity to lucrative markets.  Development of this sector could provide expanded
employment opportunities, increased export earnings, and other contributions to the national economy.
The sector fell into near chaos after the end of the socialist regime, when the institutional framework collapsed,
management of fisheries resources and ports virtually ceased, and various illegal fishing activities were allowed to
flourish. Illegal trawling, the lack of enforcement of regulations, and unlicensed fishing are persistent problems in
marine fisheries. Trawling is very easy along Albania's sandy-bottomed coast; almost all Albanian vessels,
including many that are not licensed for fishing, trawl 3 to 4 miles off the coast (30 to 50 meters deep), which is
destroying some of the nursery areas for demersal (bottom dwelling) species. Foreign trawlers are reportedly
operating within as few as 12 miles off of Albanian territory. These activities alone have resulted in a serious
decline in production. A study carried out by the FAO (report published in 1997) indicated serious over-harvesting
of demersal fish stocks in Adriatic and lonian waters.
The lack of enforcement of fishing regulations is also having an impact. While current laws on fisheries and
aquaculture, including an agreement with FYR Macedonia on Lake Ohrid, stipulate various regulations on fishing
gear, size and quantity of the catch, and closure periods, these regulations are not enforced at all due to the weak
capacity of the Department of Fisheries. On Lake Ohrid, there are reportedly more than 300 fishing boats
operating, whereas only 80 licenses have been issued. The production of Ohrid trout (koran) has surged recently,
reflecting the activities of these illegal fishing boats. However, this level of activity is unsustainable, and
production will plunge in a few years once the current stocks are depleted. In addition, there are numerous reports
of fishing with explosives in both the Adriatic and the inland lakes.
In order to achieve the sustainable development of the fisheries sector, close collaboration between the Government
and the fishing communities is essential. The Government will develop a sector strategy and planning, and local
fishing communities will develop and enforce local fisheries co-management plans in cooperation with the
Government. The fishing communities would also facilitate the collection of information on marine resources to
help improve monitoring by the Government, which in turn will coordinate with regional organizations and
neighboring countries. However, at this moment, the capacity of the Government is very weak, and fishing
communities are not yet organized.
The Department of Fisheries (DOF) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF), has overall responsibility for
the fishery sector. This includes planning sector strategy, developing and enforcing regulations, negotiating
agreements with neighboring countries, monitoring, and research.  The Fishery Research Institute (FRI) is
designated to carry out assessment of marine resources and is also involved in freshwater restocking programs on
the lakes.
However, the DOF and FRI are severely under-resourced, and cannot perform their duties. For example, current
information on licenses and registration of vessels is largely in paper files, and is not used as a tool to monitor and
control fishing activities. However, recent progress has been made to improve data collection and analysis through
an FAO-ADRIAMED Project, which is funding the development of a Fisheries Management Information System
(FMIS). This project is expected to be implemented in one year, and its impact will be limited if further assistance
is not provided. Frequent replacements of experienced key staff due to political pressure further weaken these
institutions, low salaries and the lack of incentives also contribute to the poor performance of these institutions.
- 2 -



(See Section E.4 for a detailed institutional analysis of the DOF and FRI).
The absence of associations in fishing communities is also an issue, particularly concerning the enforcement of
fishing regulations. Licensed fishermen, most of whom have made a living from fishing since the socialist regime,
are generally aware of the need for enforcing fishing regulations, and indeed are very concerned about the
destructive fishing activities that they frequently observe, particularly in lagoons and inland lakes where access is
easy for general public. The Department of Fisheries is ineffective at enforcing regulations, and it is very difficult
for individual fishermen to try to do so alone. In addition, it has been reported that municipalities often use their
political power to intervene in licensing. Also, small artisanal fishermen in coastal lagoons are pressured by large
boats, as their traditional fishing rights have not been formalized.
Management of fishing port facilities is also an important issue. Fishing ports were managed and owned by the
fishing cooperatives during the socialist regime; at the demise of the socialist regime, the fishing ports have been
transferred to the respective port authorities. However, the port authorities focus on commercial and passenger
terminals, and pay little attention to the fishing terminals. Currently, no landing charges or levies are collected
from the fishing ports, and fishing ports are not properly maintained and in serious deterioration.  In fact, all
fishing ports do not even meet minimum sanitation and hygiene standards. For example, access to potable water is
severely limited, and huge piles of rubbish and wrecks hinder normal operations.
Management of fishing port facilities would not only increase the productivity of the fishery sector, but would also
contribute to the future development of tourism along the coast. Albania has good potential for developing
marine-based tourism, which could provide local fishing communities with new sources of income and an
incentive to protect marine resources. The rocky southern coast has not been explored for fishing, as it is not
suitable for trawling, and it is very likely that there are abundant large demersal fish such as grouper. Sunken
wrecks from the Second World War and undersea archeological sites have also been reported, so the area could
potentially attract a large number of divers. In addition, because of their proximity to Western Europe, Albanian
fishing communities could provide supplies and services to boats cruising the Adriatic Coast. Since fishing ports
would become key entry and departure points for tourists, it will be essential to keep them clean and well
maintained.
Aquaculture is another area in which Albania has good potential, given its abundant land, temperate, climate,
sufficient fresh water, and geographic proximity to Western Europe. Indeed, the development of aquaculture was
one of the priorities of the socialist regime. Approximately 800 hectares of fresh water fish ponds and aquaculture
facilities, mostly for carp and trout, were developed with Chinese and Australian assistance and were run by
cooperatives. Large reservoirs for hydropower stations in Kukes and Shkodra were also used for extensive carp
aquaculture by cooperatives. In addition, aquaculture of mussels was conducted on a large-scale on a cooperative
farm in Butrinti Lagoon.
However, since the demise of the socialist regime, these aquaculture cooperatives have collapsed, facilities have
been abandoned and fallen into disrepair, and no new activities have developed. With a little effort to organize the
fishermen who used to work in these aquaculture cooperatives, it would be very possible to restart fresh water
aquaculture for domestic markets. In addition, many irrigation reservoirs have recently been transferred to water
user associations (WUAs), and aquaculture could be easily introduced to provide additional revenue for WUAs and
their members to be used for operation and maintenance of their own irrigation facilities. Albania also has good
potential in the marine aquaculture of high-value species such as shrimp, sea bass and sea bream, possibly for
international markets. Aquaculture of these species could provide a lucrative alternative to capture fisheries, and
thereby ease the pressure on marine resources.
-3 -



B. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) improve the operation and management of fishing ports through rehabilitation and the introduction of
community-based fishermen's associations (to be called Fisheries Management Organizations, or FMOs);
(b) introduce an effective institutional framework for community-driven co-management of marine resources by
involving FMOs and strengthening the public sector's capacity; and
(c) restore the country's previous capacity in aquaculture, and explore the potential for further development of
aquaculture, particularly for high value species.
To achieve these objectives, the project would carry out the following activities:
(a) rehabilitation of fishing ports and provision of initial support to FMOs (Component 1),
(b) support for restocking carp and Ohrid trout and carrying out pilot programs on modem, high-value
aquaculture (Component 2), and
(c) policy and institutional support for the Department of Fisheries and Fishery Research Institute (Component 3).
These project activities would contribute to the (economically and environmentally) sustainable development of
Albania's fishery and aquaculture sectors by introducing fisheries resource management, including fishing
regulations, and by introducing alternative sources of income, such as aquaculture and marine-based tourism.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The impacts of the proposed project would be measured by the following indicators (figures in parentheses are
targets for the end of the project).
A. Inputs
Project Expenditures for Each Component (US$)
B. Outputs
Operation of Fishing Ports Improved (Component 1)
*   number of fishing ports rehabilitated (4 marine ports and 5 inland fish landing sites)
* number of FMOs taking over operation and management (6)
*   number of FMOs adopting fishing port management plans (6)
Institutional Framework for Community-Based Marine Resource Management Established and Operational
(Components 1 and 3)
*  number of fishery management organizations (FMOs) established (10)
*   total number of fisheries management plans developed (8)
* preparation of a business plan for Fishery Research Institute
*   total number of fishermen organized under the FMOs (2,000)
*   total number of FMOs adopting and enforcing the management plan (8)
*   number of FMO members/staff trained (50)
*   diving survey of southern coastline
-4 -



Aquaculture Sector Developed (Component 2)
*   number of fishermen engaged in freshwater aquaculture in large reservoirs (150)
*  number of water user associations (WUAs) participating in demonstration of new freshwater aquaculture
species (20)
hatchery at Ohrid Lake rehabilitated and operational
*   aquaculture demonstrations for shrimp
C. Impact
Fishing Ports Managed Satisfactorily
*   number of fishing ports and landing sites properly managed
*   collection of harbor fees
Achieve Sustainable Use of Marine Resources
*   enforcement of management plans by fishermen themselves, resulting in: decrease in illegal fishing (using
explosives, violating regulations, fishing without licenses)
*   steady production at inland lakes (Lakes Ohrid and Shkodra)
*   identification of suitable sites as Marine Protected Areas (for development of eco-tourism)
Aquaculture Development
*  number of fishermen and WUAs demonstrating increase in income at least by US$600 per year from the
project (200 fishermen and 100 WUAs)
*   number of WUAs routinely engaged in tilapia and carp aquaculture using their reservoirs (15)
*   annual production of Ohrid trout (Koran)
*   annual contribution to the operation cost for the hatchery in Lin from fishermen (US$7,500)
*   annual production of shrimp through demonstrations
*   preparation of a model business plan for shrimp growing-out for private investors
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA\R2000-20       Date of latest CAS discussion: March 21, 2001 (Progress Report)
The 1998 CAS identified poverty alleviation and human development as strategic priorities for Albania. A 2001
CAS Progress Report (No. IDA/R2000-20, presented to the Board on March 21, 2001) confirmed that these themes
would continue to be priorities, but with a greater emphasis on poverty and special attention to the social
underpinnings of poverty reduction. The Government is has prepared a Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
(GPRS), which will provide the basis for a new CAS to be completed in the second half of CY 2002.
The CAS sets out three assistance priorities for IDA: (a) governance and institution building, (b) promotion of
sustainable private sector growth, and (c) promotion of human development and poverty alleviation. The CAS
further identifies the agriculture and fishery sectors as the most critical for sustaining the country's overall growth.
The proposed project is fully compatible with these CAS priorities. As stated above, the project would contribute to
improved governance and institution building through developing community-based Fishery Management
Organizations (FMOs), which would manage fishing ports and fishing grounds in a democratic manner, and
through providing support for capacity building in the public sector. This would enable the Government and FMOs
to become partners in "co-managing" the nation's marine resources, working towards the sustainable management
and development of the fishery sector.
The CAS also indicates the importance of community participation in project implementation in light of weak
public sector capacity. Indeed, Albania is considered one of the four key countries in the World Bank's recent
initiatives in community driven development (CDD). The proposed project is designed to develop
community-driven marine resource management. Because the enforcement of laws and regulations in Albania is
currently very weak, particularly concerning environmental conservation laws, community involvement is
- 5 -



absolutely crucial to the sustainable development of the fishery sector. The proposed project would first establish
FMOs and strengthen the public sector. Through these, fishing communities would become partners with the
public sector in developing and enforcing management plans for both fishing ports and fishing grounds, including
various regulations on catches and fishing gear.
The proposed aquaculture activities under this project would contribute to private sector growth as well as to
poverty reduction. The demonstrations of aquaculture for new species, such as shrimp, eel, and tilapia, are
intended to stimulate private investment and provide training to potential investors. In addition, freshwater
aquaculture of carp and tilapia could be replicated throughout the country using existing infrastructure and without
making huge investments in civil works or foreign expertise. Fresh water aquaculture activities would contribute to
poverty alleviation by providing rural families with both a good source of supplemental income and added protein.
Carp aquaculture would mainly be targeted for large reservoirs in the mountainous areas where alternative income
opportunities are severely limited. The project would also include lagoon and inland fishermen, who are generally
poor with very limited land, in the ports rehabilitation and FMO development activities. In Lake Ohrid, the project
would support the restocking of Ohrid Trout (Koran) with the involvement of fishing communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues Needing Urgent Attention
In Capture Fisheries
*   Lack of an effective institutional framework for monitoring, control, and surveillance of fishing activities.
*   Extremely weak capacity of the DOF, which prevents it from carrying out its essential mandates, such as
developing and implementing a sector strategy and key legislation, negotiating bilateral agreements with
neighboring counties, and monitoring and surveillance of fishery activities.
* Inadequate management of fishing port facilities.
*   An absence of community-based fishermen's associations that are able to achieve economies of scale, monitor
fishing activities, and collect information; and
*   No collaboration between the public sector and fishermen to control harmful fishing activities.
These deficiencies have resulted in the following problems.
*   Over-exploitation of demersal stocks due mainly to the illegal trawling by foreign vessels and near-shore
trawling by Albanian fleets, and deterioration of overall sector profitability;
*   Serious deterioration of fishing port facilities;
* Excessive levels of illegal fishing activities (fishing without licenses, fishing with explosives) and both in the
marine and freshwater fisheries; and
*   Lack of information on the stock and the harvesting of marine resources, which would be the key to develop a
strategy and regulations for sustainable fishery development.
In Aquaculture Development
*   Slow development of aquaculture due to a lack of interest in cooperative farming; and
*   Lack of modem infrastructure and technologies in the aquaculture sector which, if run effectively, would
alleviate some of the pressure on coastal fisheries and increase fishing incomes.
Government Strategy
In 1999, the Government developed a fisheries sector strategy as part of an overall agriculture strategy (Green
Strategy) that includes the following pillars: (a) sustainable development of marine and inland fisheries, (b)
restructuring and modernization of production activities, marketing networks, fishery industries, and fishing ports,
(c) increasing production in marine and inland aquaculture while protecting the environment. Unfortunately, the
sector strategy did not provide concrete means and actions for achieving its objectives. Furthermore, it did not
- 6 -



elaborate on developing an effective institutional framework or on capacity building, and lacks quantifiable
indicators for its stated objectives.
A Fisheries Management Plan was also prepared in 1999. While this plan contains useful technical, biological,
and some micro-economic information, unfortunately, it is little more than a descriptive sector review. For
example, there is no macro-economic assessment of the fishery sector's contribution to GNP, and no mention of
issues related to coastal zone management, the socioeconomic dynamics of the sector, or an assessment of human
development needs. The document therefore does not constitute a management plan.
During project preparation, the Government has realized the importance of developing an effective institutional
framework for the fisheries sector to manage the common marine stocks, as well as collect essential data on the
stocks. This would be the prerequisite to develop a meaningful fisheries management plan. In this context, the
Government has decided to develop such a management plan in the following sequence; (i) establishment of
fisheries management organizations (FMOs), and (ii) development of fisheries management plans at the local
level, and a sector management plan at the national level. The Government also recognized the importance of
exploring income opportunities for the fishing sector alternative to capture fisheries, namely aquaculture and
marine-related eco-tourism.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would assist the Government's commitment to achieving its stated objectives for the sector,
and would help prepare a fishery management plan that could be implemented and monitored. The proposed
project would also play a catalytic role in nurturing a partnership between the Government and fishing
communities, and would assist the joint implementation of the above-mentioned sector strategy. In particular, the
project would carry out the following activities to facilitate implementation of the fishery sector strategy.
Introducing Community-Based Fisheries Management Organizations. As stated above, the sector's institutional
issues are: (a) weak capacity of the public sector, (b) absence of community-based fisheries associations, and (c)
neglect by the port authority of fishing port management.  In response, the project aims to establish
community-based fisheries management organizations (FMOs) as partners to the DOF. The FMOs would manage
fishing ports and grounds, and eventually become partners with the DOF in developing and enforcing fishing
regulations. In particular, FMOs will be involved in the following activities;
*   Rehabilitating and Managing Fishing Ports. The project would support the rehabilitation of fishing ports with
essential facilities to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and navigational safety. The rehabilitated ports
would be managed by the FMOs based on the fishing port management plans developed during project
preparation.
*   Introducing Community-based Co-management of Marine Resources.   The project would introduce
co-management of fisheries resources, which means the Government and local resource users would share the
responsibility for managing fisheries resources. Albania's public sector is generally weak, and it is crucial to
involve community-based FMOs in day-to-day fisheries management. The plans would include various
fishing regulations (controls on inputs/outputs, and indirect controls), and a rapid assessment of the flora and
fauna in each particular area to determine the potential for marine-based tourism and help fishermen diversify
their economic activities.
*   Collecting Information on Marine & Inland Fish Resources. The project would aim to address this issue in a
practical and cost-effective way through involving FMOs in a stock assessment program and establishing a
link between FMOs and the public sector to provide essential data. Further, the project would collaborate with
the on-going multinational project funded by FAO (ADRIAMED), and build on current assistance being
provided to develop a fisheries management information system (FMIS).
Introducing Modern Infrastructure and Technologies in Aquaculture. The project would aim to: (a) restart the
country's activities in freshwater aquaculture, (b) explore the country's potential in high-value marine aquaculture,
- 7 -



and (c) modernize the fish restocking center for Ohrid trout. In particular, the project would: (i) provide seed funds
for groups of farmers/fishermen to start up carp aquaculture, (ii) rehabilitate a hatchery in Lin for Lake Ohrid, and,
(iii) carry out pilot aquaculture demonstration programs for certain species currently not being exploited in
Albania.
Strengthening the Public Sector. The project would provide technical assistance to the Department of Fisheries
(DOF) and the Fisheries Research Institute to increase their capacity. In particular, the DOF would be fully
engaged in preparation of fishery management plans with the FMOs. The FAO's participation would be sought to
provide training on formulating and negotiating bilateral treaties. Similarly, the FRI would be in charge of
implementing the aquaculture activities proposed under the project with support from the technical assistance
team. In order to provide the staff with better incentives, the salary structure would also be improved to approach
that of the private sector.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises the following components and subcomponents:
Component 1. Support for Community-Based Co-Management of Fisheries
Rehabilitation of Fishing Port Facilities
Support for Coastal Zone Management
Component 2. Aquaculture Development
Support for Restocking Carp
Support for Restocking Koran in Lake Ohrid
Pilot Aquaculture Development
Component 3. Support for the Public Sector
Technical Assistance for the Fisheries Directorate
Technical Assistance for the Fishery Research Institute
Component 4. Project Management
Component 5. Refinancing PPF
Project preparation has been financed by a PHRD grant and a Project Preparation Facility, which will have to be
refinanced during implementation. Total project costs are estimated at US$6.66 million, of which US$5.6 million
would be financed through IDA resources and US$1.07 million through government and beneficiary contributions.
The features of each component are described in Annex 2.
.RC  o   ;               B a k-      % of
Component                     Seoctr                     % of      flnaiCIV     Bank-
; M$IiW    l Totm       (USA    l flnancing
Component 1. Support to              Fisheries &             3.35       50.3       2.90       51.8
Community-Based Co-management of Aquaculture
Fisheries
Component 2. Aquaculture            Fisheries &              2.14       32.1       1.61       28.8
Development                         Aquaculture
Component 3. Institutional Support for Fisheries &           0.25        3.8       0.25        4.5
the Public Sector                   Aquaculture
- 8 -



Component 4. Project Administration  Fisheries &             0.78        11.7       0.70       12.5
Aquaculture
Component 5. Refinancing PPF         Fisheries &             0.14         2.1       0.14        2.5
Aquaculture
Total Project Costs                        6.66      100.0       5.60      100.0
Total Financing Required                          6.66      100.0        5.60      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reform to be sought under the proposed project is to introduce co-management of
common fishery resources through community-based fishery management organizations (FMOs). The development
of FMOs would take place in two phases. Phase 1 (2002-2003) would focus on the management of fishing port
facilities, and Phase 11(2004-2006) would move towards the co-management of fisheries resources.
* Management of Fishing Port Facilities. The project would establish a sound institutional framework for
managing fishing ports separately from commercial ports, specifically by supporting FMO-based fishing port
facilities management. The commercial port authorities are under the control of the Ministry of Privatization
and the Ministry of Transport, but are currently undergoing privatization (eventually management of all
terminal operations will be privatized). The project would first carry out critical rehabilitation and clean-up of
the fishing ports, and would then engage FMOs as the designated operators of their respective fishing ports.
FMOs would then be responsible for all tasks associated with managing fishing ports, including controlling
landing activities, collecting landing fees, and contracting with private firms. During project preparation,
management plans were prepared for all major fishing ports, setting out norms for the FMOs' organizational
structures and estimated user fees.
*   Co-Management of Marine Resources. During the second phase, the project would assist FMOs in
co-managing marine resources in partnership with the Department of Fisheries. FMOs would be assigned
specific areas as their exclusive zones, and would be responsible for controlling fishing activities within these
areas. Co-management by gear type (rather than by zone) may also be a necessity in certain fisheries, such as
the deep-sea trawl and purse-seine fishery.  FMOs would also have formal linkages with other law
enforcement institutions (i.e., police and navy) to assist in the arresting of vessels engaged in illegal fishing
activities. The project would provide the initial support to FMOs for resource management, including
preparation of statutes, development of fishery management plans, including various fishing regulations, and
undertaking several demonstration programs on MCS (monitoring, control and surveillance). The fishery
management plans would also identify areas of potential ecological value or with potential for tourism and
needing protection.
New Legislation on FMOs
The various fisheries associations created to date have been established as private associations on the basis of
article 41 of the Civil Code. However, it is clear that this legal form does not provide a viable long-term basis for
the operation of FMOs as envisaged by the project. Such associations are not permitted to undertake commercial
activities and thus cannot lawfully manage and operate fishing ports and landing sites. In addition, the Civil Code
does not provide effective legal means of ensuring that the public interest or the interests of members and
beneficiaries are protected. Furthermore, FMOs will have important decision making powers over access to
resources and thus access to livelihood. It will therefore be particularly important to ensure that clear legal rights
are conferred on individual members so as to ensure that FMOs are not run for the benefit of a minority of their
members.
Consequently, given the specific and public interest tasks that are envisaged for FMOs, it was concluded that
specific new legislation on FMOs is needed. Such legislation would provide for the establishment of FMOs as
organizations sui generis in the same way that the recent Irrigation and Drainage Law provides for the specific
-9-



establishment of water user associations and drainage boards.
In particular, FMOs would be established under Public Law to be supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food. Given the importance of marine resource management, it would be mandatory for license holders to join
FMOs. FMOs would have their own general assemblies as the decision making body, the general assemblies
would elect board members, and the boards would appoint the Chairmen of the FMOs.
A draft amendment to the Fisheries Law has been prepared to support the above-mentioned point. Approval by
the Council of Ministers of the final draft amendment for submission to the Parliament would be a condition for
IDA Board Presentation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefits of the project would be increased sustainability of marine resources through policy and
institutional reforms, and increased income through aquaculture development.
Sustainability of Marine Resources. The project is expected to increase the economic and environmental
sustainability of exploiting marine and lake-resources by (a) strengthening public institutions and (b) improving
management of the sector by introducing a system of community-based resource co-management. These benefits
would be accrued through:
*   Addressing the economic problems inherent in an open-access fishery (as exists at present) by helping to
reduce producer costs, limiting access to the fishery, and improving catch rates;
*   Developing and enforcing fishing regulations by establishing partnerships between the Government and
fishing communities to co-manage fisheries resources;
* Conducting small activities to test alternative fishing gear and create artificial reefs that would enhance
marine habitats and possibly attract eco-tourism; and
*   Undertaking efforts to increase the efficiency of the Koran restocking effort at Lake Ohrid through
rehabilitation of the current hatchery, technical assistance, and engagement of fishing communities.
Increased Income. The aquaculture component would support the development of viable, income-earning
aquaculture activities in rural areas through:
*   Supporting low-tech, low maintenance aquaculture of marketable species such as carp and tilapia in Albania's
existing fresh water reservoirs; and
*   Exploring Albania's potential in the aquaculture of high-value marine species, such as shrimp.
Target Population
The proposed project could benefit some 1,200 fishermen and their families in the marine fisheries (including
small fishermen in lagoons), and some 300 fishermen and their families in the two major lake fisheries (Ohrid and
Shkodra).
Through the economic multiplier effect, the project would also indirectly benefit as many as 400 suppliers and
traders in the marine fishing industry. This includes agents, fish traders and exporters, fish processors, ship's
chandlers, etc., and a further 400 hundred vessel owners, by generating greater economic returns within the sector.
In addition, the project would support a large number of farmers and part-time inland fishermen who would
participate in the freshwater aquaculture programs to be implemented under the project. A conservative estimate
suggests that the freshwater aquaculture program would benefit 150 full-time fishing families near large reservoirs,
and about 4,000 families that are members of WUAs.
The project would not target a particular income group, as its aim is to support the fishery and aquaculture sector
per se. Fishing communities have mixed income groups, ranging from a handful of traders, to owners of
medium-size boats, crews for boats, and small-scale (artisanal) fishermen. However, specific project activities were
- 1 0 -



designed to include: (a) small-scale fishermen, such as the inland fishermen on Lakes Ohrid and Shkodra, (b)
lagoon fishermen, who are now subject to increased competition for resources, and (c) inland reservoir fishermen,
who live in areas where income-earning opportunities are severely limited. In addition, efforts were made in the
process of developing the coastal FMOs to include crew members as well as boat owners in order to give everybody
a voice.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The main actors in the implementation of the proposed project are (a) the Government, (b) a Project Management
Unit, and (c) fishermen (FMOs).
The Government
Ministry ofAgriculture and Food (MoAF). As the designated executing agency of the IDA credit, the MoAF would
have overall authority for project implementation (including procurement, reporting, and disbursement), and would
be responsible for formulating and enforcing fishery policies.
Steering Committee. A Steering Committee would be established within the MoAF to supervise the overall
implementation of the project. The committee would also discuss and approve all draft laws and regulations to be
developed under the project. The committee would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, and would comprise
the following members: (a) the Director General of Fisheries, (b) the Director of the Agriculture Program Office
(APO), (c) the Director of Finance, (d) the Director of the Fisheries Research Institute, (e) the Director of the
PMU, and (f) representatives from the FMOs.
Department of Fishery (DOF). The DOF would be mainly responsible for sector policy matters, particularly the
national and international legal framework. It would also be responsible for monitoring and supervising FMOs.
The project would also help strengthen the DOF under Component 3, Subcomponent 1.
Fishery Research Institute (FRI). FRI would be engaged mainly in the Aquaculture Component of the Project. The
FRI would be assigned overall responsibility for implementation of the component, with particular responsibility
for: (a) the pilot aquaculture programs and (b) the restocking program for Koran. The project would also help
strengthen the FRI under Component 3, Subcomponent 2. FRI will also be involved in the FMIS (Fishery
Management Information System) related project activities, as the FRI is responsible for resource management.
Project Management Unit (PMU)
A project management unit (PMU) would be established within the MoAF, which would have overall responsibility
for implementing the project and for acting as interlocutor between the Government, fishermen (FMOs), and IDA.
The main tasks of the PMU would include:
* facilitating the establishment of FMOs and supporting their engagement in fishing port management;
* reviewing and approving, in collaboration with FMOs, detailed designs, engineering studies and tender
documents prepared by consultants for fisheries related infrastructure;
* procuring goods, civil works, and consultant services;
* managing the technical assistance component and delivery of the training program;
*   verifying and processing statements of expenditures and withdrawal applications (the accounting department
would be shared with Agriculture Service Project);
* reporting, project accounting, and auditing arrangements,
*   preparing periodic progress reports for review by the Steering Committee, IDA and other donors; and
* monitoring and evaluating project impact.



Fishing Communities (Fisheries Management Organizations (FMOs))
Fishing communities would participate in the project through FMOs at all stages of the project, from planning to
implementation. A program to initiate formation of the FMOs started in 1998 with support from the International
Fertilizer Development Center (IFDC) and funding from USAID, and the efforts were intensified during project
preparation. In particular, fishing communities have been involved in determining the structure of the FMOs and
in preparing proposals for rehabilitating fishing ports.  As stated above, the FMOs would have primary
responsibility for managing fishing ports and grounds. They would also be actively involved in developing and
enforcing fishery management plans in partnership with the Department of Fisheries through a pilot MCS
program. FMOs are also expected to provide catch data essential for research (e.g., composition of catch,
quantities, age profiles) to the fishery inspectors.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A. Project Rationale
Taking no action was considered and rejected.  Albania's fishery sector is relatively small at present
(approximately 2,000 families are currently engaged in full-time fishing), and its contribution to the overall
economy is not significant. In addition, the sector is not profitable at this moment, particularly due to the depletion
of marine resources from unregulated activities. Nevertheless, fishery activities (fishing and aquaculture) have
good potential for development because of the country's topographical advantages (e.g., lagoons, bays, reservoirs,
and lakes), and its geographic proximity to major markets.
Unfortunately, the fishery sector is currently in disarray, with virtually no regulations or controls in place. Taking
no action would clearly lead to the total depletion of fishery resources, which would not only deprive the country of
the sector's development potential, but would also have severe consequences for large and important ecosystems,
including several lagoons and inland lakes, such as Karavasta Lagoon, a Ramsar site. Albania also has
considerable potential in marine-related tourism (e.g., scuba diving). Therefore, it is critical to organize fishermen
now, raise awareness on the importance of resource management, and introduce community-based co-management
of marine resources.
Albania's aquaculture industry is currently almost nonexistent. However, with a little effort it would be possible to
restore the country's previous capacity in freshwater aquaculture. Aquaculture could also help remote rural areas,
where income-earning opportunities are limited. In addition, it is hoped that demonstrations of high-value marine
aquaculture would stimulate private investment in a number of areas that are suitable to aquaculture.
B. Project Approach
The fishery sector in Albania, as in most countries, is very complex---biological, economic, sociocultural, and
institutional factors all play a role in its current state. In addition, the country lacks basic data, for example on
catches and fishery stocks, making it virtually impossible to develop a sector strategy. In principle, fishery projects
should be based on knowledge of the available resources and an estimate of the allowable catch, but because
Albania lacks this information, the project would concentrate on issues that are urgent, essential to helping
Albanian fishermen, and likely to bear results in the immediate future. Thus, the project proposes the following
main investments: (a) small infrastructure rehabilitation to facilitate the organization of community-based fisheries
management organizations (FMOs), (b) technical assistance programs for FMOs, the Department of Fisheries, and
the Fishery Research Institute (FRI), (c) support to farmers and fishermen to restart traditional carp aquaculture in
reservoirs, and (d) demonstration programs for new aquaculture activities.
The project follows the recent trend of the fisheries sector, and envisages developing community-based
co-management of fisheries resources and facilitating the development of private sector aquaculture. The project
- 12-



does not target the development of fleets, or the construction of large, fishery-related infrastructure, such as ports,
wholesale markets, and/or roads. Nor does the project include a large component to assist government institutions
in assessing fish stocks. These activities were rejected for the following reasons.
*   There are strong indicators of over-exploitation of demersal fish stocks in trawlable areas. For example, catch
per unit effort (CPUE) has declined significantly over the past ten years, and the average sizes of fish caught
by Albanian trawlers have also decreased. An investment to increase fishing fleets and further intensify
trawling would be irresponsible and environmentally unacceptable given the current state of the stocks off
Albanian shores and the current lack of regulatory and surveillance systems.
*   Investments for increasing the capacity of fishing ports is also not economic or environmentally desirable at
this time. Existing industrial fishing fleets, mostly bottom trawlers, are inefficient and any gain in efficiency
from large investments in fishing ports would be negligible, and at this stage, not desirable. Therefore, this
project would make no large investments in fishing ports, but would instead carry out small-scale
rehabilitation and improvement works so that the existing fishing ports would meet the minimum
international navigational safety and hygiene standards. It is hoped that rehabilitated and well-maintained
fishing ports can become key centers for marine-related tourism in the future so that fishing communities can
successfully diversify their activities.
*   Investments in large-scale wholesale fish markets would also not be economic, considering the current volume
of catches. In addition, at each major port, several traders have already made substantial investments, and
new wholesale markets would cause conflicts with them. Therefore, proposed wholesale market activity was
dropped. However, in Pogradec and Shkodra small landing sites would be developed with essential equipment
such as ice plants and insulated transport containers, when the FMOs have sufficient capacity to control their
own fishing activities.
C. Structure of Fisheries Management Organizations (FMOs)
During the early stages of project preparation, the concept for FMOs was based on the following premises.
* FMOs are voluntary associations involving all professional groups engaged in fishery-related activities,
including boat owners, crews, truck drivers, aquaculturists, and merchants. All members would have equal
voting rights.
*   FMOs would be engaged in: (a) fishing grounds management, (b) collecting statistics, (c) operating markets,
and (d) carrying out aquaculture.
*   Six FMOs would be established to cover the entire country.
During preparation, this concept was modified with the following key principles (see Section E.6).
*   FMOs are public organizations that are mainly involved in the management of fishing ports and fishing
grounds.
*   FMOs would, in principle, involve all professional groups sharing a common fishing port and fishing grounds;
however, voting rights would depend on a member's profession.
* FMOs would be established on the basis of shared interests (e.g., common fishing ports, and fishing grounds).
There was considerable resistance from boat owners to crewmen becoming FMO members with equal voting
rights. Boat owners have made considerable investments in their businesses, and have obtained licenses for
conducting business, and so believe it would be unfair if the FMOs were dominated by the more numerous
crew-members. In Durres and Vlora, boat owners suggested establishing separate groups for boat owners only in
that case. On the other hand, other fishing communities strongly support mandatory membership, since they
believe that everyone with legitimate licenses should follow regulations and contribute to the management of
fishing ports. In addition, fishing communities believe it is important that FMOs be organized according to shared
interests. For example, lagoon fishermen and ocean trawling fishermen do not share any common interests, since
their fishing grounds, landing places, and target species are completely different.
- 13 -



Marketing and collecting statistical data have been excluded from the FMOs' tasks. Marketing was excluded
because the private sector is developing sufficiently to perform this function. While FMOs would be involved in
collating and interpreting data on catch and fishing efforts, collecting statistics would be considered the main task
of the Fisheries Research Institute. Detailed features of the FMOs are provided in Section 6 (Social).
D. Aquaculture Component
Mussels
Technologies for mussel aquaculture have been established in Albania, and there is no need for further
demonstration. However, there is currently an EU ban on importing live mussels since an outbreak of cholera in
1994, although the Govermment of Albania has recently reapplied to the European Commission for export licenses
to EU. The project would provide technical assistance on packing and marketing to assist the MoAF in resuming
exports to the EU, where there is a considerable market for mussels.
Cage Culture of Sea Bass & Sea Bream
Albania has several lagoons and bays that are suitable for cage culturing sea bass and sea bream. Support for cage
culture was considered but rejected because (a) technology is available in the private sector, and (b) cage culture
may have potential environmental impacts, particularly in the absence of regulations.
Exploration of High-Value Marine Species
Under this project, the scope of exploring high-value marine species would be mainly limited to the growing out of
shrimp. During project preparation, the following activities were considered and rejected;
*   Aquaculture of eel was considered and rejected.  The profitability of eel would largely depend on the
availability of elvers (glass eel about an inch in length). Unfortunately, there is no hard data on this wild
resource. In addition, lagoon fishermen are reportedly against harvesting wild elvers, as it may affect their
catch of mature eel. Furthermore, the profitability of eel aquaculture declined by more than 50 percent in
2000, as international prices plunged. In Europe, the majority of eel aquaculture firms have shifted from
semi-intensive to intensive methods in order to increase profitability. However, these intensive methods
generally require large capital costs and sophisticated technologies, and are considered to be premature for
Albania. However, a small study on the availability of elvers has been included in the project, as it is
considered to be fundamental to developing a strategy and regulations for eel aquaculture in the future.
*   Intensive and semi-intensive culture of sea bass and sea bream was considered and rejected, as it is premature
for the current situation in Albania; it would require larger initial investment costs for grow-out and highly
sophisticated knowledge for hatchery operations.
*   Investment in a hatchery for shrimp was considered and rejected. Currently, the Government is participating
in a joint venture with an Italian private partner to carry out shrimp aquaculture. It was considered more cost
effective to utilize the existing hatchery at the joint venture and make some improvements than to develop a
second hatchery that would duplicate those efforts.
*   Adoption of Semi-intensive Aquaculture. While the eventual rate of return for intensive aquaculture is higher
than it would be for semi-intensive methods, the project would support only semi-intensive aquaculture.
Semi-intensive methods require less capital, and therefore less investment for the project as well as for
prospective investors who want to replicate the operation. In addition, the intensive method is highly technical
and has not been tested for Marsupeneus japonicus. Thus it was deemed too experimental for Albania where
experience with high-tech aquaculture is extremely limited.
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Project                    (PSR) Ratings
I ____________________________   ___________________________    (Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation Irrigation Rehabilitation Project  S          S
and drainage facilities              and Second Irrigation and
Drainage Rehabilitation Project
Providing medium-sized credit for    Agroprocessing Project              S              U
Igro-industry
Providing microcredit for poverty    Microcredit Project                 S              S
targeted groups
Providing access to and from rural   Rural Roads Project                 S              S
fivi'llages
Providing rural infrastructure       Community Works Project             S              S
Providing agricultural support to    Agriculture Services Project
private fanners
Rehabilitating and Restructuring the  Durres Port Rehabilitation         S              S
Durres Port, and Preparation of Master Project
P]ans for other Ports
|Other development agencies
Coordinating fisheries activities in  Adria-Med Project (FAO)
Adriatic Sea among Italy, Albania,   (on-going)
Slovenia, and Montenegro
Providing essential workshops (slipway EU Phare (planning)
and workshops) in Saranda and
w Shingkin
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. l,essons learned and reflected in the project design:
' Sector & Themes     A KM
In fishery projects, the active participation of fishermen from the early stages of project preparation is extremely
critical to successful implementation, and to achieving sustainable utilization of marine resources. When the Bank
tirst became involved in fisheries projects in the late 1970s, the projects emphasized development of production by
increasing a country's capacity to exploit fisheries resources and by developing the supporting infrastructure.
However, in the 1980s, data became available showing that exploitation of fisheries and limits of sustainable yields
had been significantly overreached in many fisheries worldwide. Consequently, Bank assistance has, for the most
part, shi fted emphasis to conservation of resources, increasing production through sustainable management
practices, establishment of marine or inland aquatic protected areas or sanctuaries, and formulation of integrated
oastal zone management programs that help protect resources.
The proposed project follows this trend in Bank-financed fisheries projects. In particular, the project would
provide local fishermen with community-based institutions (FMOs) to manage their own activities and move
towards more sustainable methods.  The project concept has been discussed on several occasions with
representatives of fishermen, and is fully endorsed by them. The project preparation team also collaborated with
- 15-



the fishing communities on organizing several large workshops to sensitize fishermen to the importance of
community-based marine resource management, and to explain the proposed project and the opportunities and
obligations for fishermen.
Furthermore, this project was designed incorporating lessons learned from the Bank's lending experience in
Albania. In Albania, the Government's capacity to enforce laws and regulations is generally weak, and community
participation has been extremely critical for successful project implementation, particularly in forestry, irrigation,
microcredit and rural development projects.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government's Commitment
The project was originally identified as a component of the proposed Agriculture Services Project (ASP). However,
given the fishery sector's unique geographic, socioeconomic, and environmental aspects, the Government decided
to make the ASP fishery component a separate project. Following the Government's decision, a project preparation
unit (PPU) was established, and two representatives from the fishing communities were recruited as national
consultants to facilitate the organization of FMOs. During project preparation, the Government made the
following commitments to support the FMOs: (a) preparation of a draft amendment to the Law on Fisheries and
Aquaculture for submission to the Parliament (as a legal basis for FMOs), and (b) approval of transferring
management of fishing ports and grounds to FMOs. Tfhe Government also successfully negotiated with its Italian
shrimp farm joint-venture partner to secure the site identified for establishing an Aquaculture Research and
Development Center.
Fishing Communities' Commitment
The proposed project adopts a demand-driven approach, and the communities' initiatives are crucial for successful
implementation. After consultations with fishermen, an informal association was established at the national level,
comprising some 1,000 fishermen. During project preparation, a series of workshops was organized by both
national and international consultants to raise fishermen's awareness of the need to organize and mobilize
community efforts to start managing fishing ports and co-managing fisheries resources with the Government. The
fishing communities have since organized infornal local associations that would be formalized upon the enactment
of related laws and regulations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank Group has been involved in several projects worldwide that focus on the development of
community-based organizations and the transfer of management responsibilities from the central government to
these organizations (e.g., water user associations, comrnmunal forestry). In Albania, IDA has been particularly
successful in advocating the importance of such community-based organizations as partners to central and local
governments. Examples include the Water User Associations in the Irrigation Project, village credit committees in
the Rural Development Project, communal forestry associations in the Forestry Project, and conmmunity
associations in the Urban Land Management Project. Various donors also consider IDA projects as leading
vehicles for support to Albania, and have already expressed their intentions to collaborate with IDA in the
development of the fishery sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit      NPV=US$ million; ERR = %    (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project comprises the following activities that would generate economic benefit: (a) rehabilitation of fishing
- 16-



ports, (b) improvements in fisheries resource management, (c) economies of scale for fishing vessel operators (in
terms of supply of inputs) and (d) development of aquaculture programs, including small grant and demonstration
programs. However, it would be difficult to carry out a conventional economic analysis, since a major part of the
project benefits are intangible and very difficult to compute. Following is a summary of the qualitative economic
analysis done for each component.
A. Rehabilitation of Fishing Ports
This component proposes the rehabilitation of up to 9 fishing ports and landing sites, and is estimated to cost
approximately US$2.2 million in total. However, estimating a quantified economic rate of return would be
difficult, as a major part of the proposed investment is designed to fulfill minimum navigational safety and hygiene
standards. The proposed investment would include:
(a)    cleaning up the sites and wrecks (which would increase the operational capacity of the fishing jetties),
(b)    provision of hygiene facilities, and ice and water supply (which would decrease the risk of disease),
(c)    provision of storage and refueling facilities (which would increase operational efficiency of fishing boats),
(d)    provision of lighting (to increase navigational safety at night), and
(e)    provision of essential quay works and fences (to demarcate areas designated for fishing ports).
These items, which are of small value individually, would provide very little measurable economic benefit, and
therefore, are not suitable to conventional economic analysis. Efforts have been made instead to develop a
management plan that ensures the financial affordability of fishing port management for fishing communities.
The plan suggests that all fishing ports could be managed for a total contribution of up to a maximum of
approximately US$200 per boat per year on average, which is considered well within the affordable range for
fishing communities (see Section F - Sustainability and Risks for details). Annex 4 presents an example of the
cash flow of the operation and management of fishing ports.
B. Aquaculture Development
The main activities for aquaculture would include: (a) restocking carp aquaculture in reservoirs, (b) restocking
Koran in Lake Ohrid, and (c) experimental programs for aquaculture of tilapia, and shrimp.
Restocking Carp in Reservoirs. The major economic benefit of this grant program would arise from the restoration
of carp aquaculture. This activity is designed to: (i) give fishermen incentives to organize FMOs in reservoirs, (ii)
solicit contributions from members of FMOs and WUAs for restocking carp in local reservoirs or lakes, and (iii)
enlist FMOs in managing and controlling their members' fishing activities. While the economic rate of return for
large reservoirs is difficult to estimate, an economic model for small reservoirs managed by WUAs suggests that
the grant program would yield an extremely high economic rate of return (well over 50 percent), even if
opportunity costs are considered.
Restocking Program for Koran. This subcomponent primarily aims to: (i) increase the capacity of the Lin hatchery
through rehabilitation and modest improvements, and (ii) investigate the effectiveness of the restocking program
through a tagging program. While these activities will be crucial to sustaining current Koran stock levels in Lake
Ohrid, it would be very difficult to estimate an economic rate of return for the restocking activities. The annual
catch of Koran varies substantially year to year for unknown reasons, and the effectiveness of the restocking
program (i.e., Koran survival rate) is still unclear.
Using conservative assumptions: (i) with the project, the annual catch of Koran would be maintained at the current
level of approximately 80 tons per year, whereas without the project it would likely decline to 50 tons per year by
Project Year 10, and (ii) project benefits would materialize in Project Year 5, and the investment would have an
estimated IRR of about 16 percent, which indicates that it would be of sufficient economic viability. In addition, the
investment would have intangible but not insubstantial ecological and social benefits such as preserving Lake
Ohrid's biodiversity and protecting an indigenous species with symbolic value for Albanians. The economic rate of
return would likely be estimated more accurately after the investigation on restocking effectiveness is conducted
- 17-



and technical adjustments to the restocking program are made (e.g., changing the target growth to increase the
survival rate of the fingerlings).
Aquaculture Demonstration Program. While it is difficult to estimate the economic benefit of the demonstration
program, an indicative economic analysis can be made based on some assumptions.
* The tilapia program would have an internal rate of return of about 44 percent, as the program requires few
incremental investment costs (US$20,000 for the Fishery Research Institute, which already has basic facilities
such as building and water supply), and very little operation cost (US$1,500 for participating WUAs to recrit
feeders).
*   It is not appropriate to estimate the economic rate of return of the experimental operation of shrimp growing,
since the program is to explore the best parameters for shrimp aquaculture and develop a business model for
potential investors. The operation would therefore be limited to a small scale not large enough to yield
positive IRRs. For shrimp, the demonstration program would start with about 2.4 hectares, which may not
even be sufficient to generate representative operating costs. However, the outcome of the operation would be
utilized by the existing joint venture first to improve their current operations. Then, all the outcome would be
shared by potential private investors to facilitate their investment in the growing out of shrimp.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A financial analysis was carried out for the fishing ports and the aquaculture activities.
A. Fishing Ports
The means of recovering investment and operation costs from beneficiaries were discussed and agreed with the
fishing conmmunities. In principle, the project would therefore not seek financial contributions for highly public
goods such as quay works. However some contributions for the common infrastructure to be used by FMO members
would be required in order to nurture their ownership. Typically, contributions from the fishing communities
would be up to US$200 per FMO member, amounting to 3-4 percent of the total costs for the rehabilitation. In
particular, the following formula would be applied:
*   FMOs would make no financial contributions towards the cost of initial clean up of the port areas (Phase I of
port rehabilitation sub-component), or quay works and reclamation work (Phase 2);
*   FMOs would, however, make up-front financial contributions of at least 10 percent of the cost of hygiene
works (water supply and sewerage), construction of FMO offices, and at least 20 percent of small-scale
economic infrastructure investments that would benefit fishermen directly (e.g., storage for fishing gear, fuel
tanks, and small ice plants).
The project would rather emphasize operation and maintenance of the fishing ports. In principle, fishing port
management would be fully delegated to FMOs. The FMOs would be required to collect user fees from their
members and utilize proceeds from the economic infrastructure to hire full-time staff and contractors to maintain
port facilities. During project preparation, a separate port management plan was prepared for each fishing port.
These plans, which include the structure of FMOs and estimates of operation costs, provide the basis for FMOs'
management of port facilities. While user fees would vary from place to place depending on the size of fishing
boats, a typical user fee for trawlers would be about US$100-200 per year, and for small inland lake boats about
US$50 per year. These figures would indicate that FMOs could well afford to carry out proper operation and
management of the fishing ports.
- 18-



B. Aquaculture Activities
Cost recovery issues have been carefully addressed in the design of aquaculture activities.
Carp Aquaculture. In order to participate in the project, beneficiaries would first have to organize an FMO
comprising at least 30 members. Then, the FMO would then have to pay at least 30 percent of the total costs of
restocking fingerlings in cash contributions each year. The project may finance up to US$10,000 or US$100 per
member per year for a reservoir. The project would support restocking up to only three years, since the objective of
the program is help fishermen organize FMOs and re-establish sustainable stocks of carp in three years. Irrigation
water user associations (WUAs) would also participate in this program in a similar manner. The project would
finance up to US$3,000 for only a year, considering that irrigation reservoirs are much smaller than the reservoirs
to be managed by FMOs.
Tilapia Aquaculture. Through the Fishery Research Institute (FRI), the project would provide participating WUAs
with fingerlings and cages, which are estimated to cost US$3,000 in total for raising tilapia in irrigation reservoirs.
The participating WUAs would be required to assign full-time staff to the activity (a typical salary would be US$50
per month). The staff would be responsible for day-to-day care of the fish, measuring growth periodically, and
doing test marketing. If WUAs find that tilapia aquaculture is profitable and want to continue, they would retain
the cages but would have to purchase fingerlings from the FRI at cost.
Restocking of Ohrid Trout. The project would increase the current level of expenditures on restocking activities in
order to make the restocking effort more meaningful and effective. At present, approximately US$10,000 has been
spent on restocking Koran. An estimate suggests that this figure should be increased to US$25,000 so that the
number of fry released can be increased to 1 million when rehabilitation of the hatchery is completed. The project
would use license fees collected by the FMO to finance part of the operation cost. The fishing communities agreed
that the FMO would issue 150 annual licenses at US$50 each (approximately US$7,500) to finance operating costs.
High Value Marine Aquaculture. As stated above, the demonstration activities are designed to be small-scale to
explore potential, and are not designed to be self-financing. As stated in Annex 2, this activity would be
implemented in three phases to mitigate technical and administrative risks and minimize financial exposure. It is
estimated that the total operational cost for this activity is about US$135,000, of which about 40 percent would be
covered by the proceeds of the sales of shrimp.
Fiscal Impact:
Rehabilitation of the fishing ports would have limited fiscal impact since it is envisaged that day-to-day managerial
responsibilities would be transferred to fishing communities (FMOs). This would ease the burden on the state to
manage these areas. However, some funds would be necessary in the future to carry out periodical dredging works
(say every five years) in Vlora to keep the fishing port operational. In Vlora, there is a periodical need to dredge in
a relatively large area within the designated fishing port area due to the along-shore drift of sand into the port area.
While these works may eventually be financed by the FMOs once their financial strength is established either
through the fishing activities or tourism activities, for the next five years there is no other possibility but the state
budget to carry out these works.
Restocking support for Ohrid Trout proposed under the project would have some fiscal implications. Due to:(a)
increased number of released fry, (b) introduction of environmentally friendly feed, and (c) increased remuneration
for the technical staff (currently they are paid less than US$80 per month), annual operation cost of the hatchery
will be increased from the current US$ 10,000 to US$25,000. However, it is expected that about half of this increase
(US$7,500) would be eventually financed by the license fees. During negotiations, it shall be confirmed that the
counterpart funds would be provided to finance the operation cost, as the Government will be solely financing the
operation cost.
- 19-



The proposed facilities for exploring potential of high-value marine species would require operational cost of
estimated USS20,000 per year for the first year and US$36,000 for the second year onward. However, these cost
would be recouped through the proceeds of the sales of aquaculture products from the second year.
3. Technical:
The following is a summary of technical issues related to the project.
A. Fishing Ports
The proposed intervention in Albania's fishing ports is low impact, aimed primarily to reverse more than a decade
of total neglect and to enhance the environmental well being of the fishing ports themselves. Investment and
upgrading proposed under the project are rather modest, and do not intend to increase the original capacity of the
fishing ports, and are fully compatible with the master plan prepared by the Govemment.
At all the coastal sites, effort would be made under the project to clean up the environment in general and in
particular to remove the sunken wrecks obstructing long stretches of quay wall. Boundary walls and fences will be
rehabilitated for additional safety and in some cases, entry to the port area will be monitored. At all the sites,
including the lake shores, minimum standards of hygiene and water supply have been introduced in full
compliance with international standards. In addition to this, infrastructure for port wastes management has been
introduced at all the coastal sites in full compliance with International Maritime Organization (IMO) and Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) recommendations. All effluent from the hygiene services will be treated on site.
At the lake shore sites, particular attention will be paid to landscaping and conforming building practices to avoid
any negative impacts on the surrounding environments.
All the proposed construction, including the quay walls at Saranda and Shingjin, are deemed possible in Albania
by domestic contractors with the type of plant currently available. No special plant will be required.
B. Aquaculture Technologies
Ohrid Trout (Koran)
The technology for the production of Koran fingerlings is relatively simple and well tested. The technology was
introduced on Lake Ohrid in FYR Macedonia by the Hydrobiological Institute. The production of fingerlings is
based on stripping and artificially fertilizing the eggs of mature females that are caught together with ripe males
during the spawning season. For the protection of the species, clearly a closed season, (when the Koran spawn)
would be best, but this is apparently not enforceable for socioeconomic reasons as Koran are very difficult to catch
during the rest of the year, in particular during the summer when they are dispersed in deep water.
The second best solution is not to let the eggs contained in the ripe females go to waste when they are caught
during the spawning season. This is the rationale behind the restocking program. On the Macedonian side, the
hatchery provides licenses to the fishermen to catch Koran according to the capacity of the hatchery to receive and
incubate the eggs. A similar system is foreseen for the hatchery in Lin and close cooperation with the
Hydrobiological Institute in Ohrid and the Macedonian fisheries organization should be established, because both
sides exploit the same stock.
It is even possible that the system as described above actually enhances recruitment of Koran because the hatchery
and grow-out ponds eliminate predation during the egg-larvae-fingerling development period which in nature is
usually the time of the heaviest losses. In other words more eggs may ultimately make it to mature fish when they
develop in a hatchery than if they were laid in the wild. Only a tagging program for fish to be released will give
insight into the efficiency of the hatchery in increasing fisheries yields and therefore a tagging program has been
included in the project.
- 20 -



Shrimp
The most suitable species for Mediterranean conditions is Marsupenaeus japonicus, a species that is cultured
elsewhere in the Mediterranean and occurs there as a wild intruder from the Red Sea via the Suez Canal. After
considering three different options for demonstration of shrimp farming (intensive, semi intensive and extensive),
the semi-intensive option has been chosen. The main limiting factor in shrimp culture in Albania is the short
grow-out season that lasts only about 165 days per year when the temperature is between 18 and 28 degrees C. It is
therefore uncertain whether a commercially viable operation can be established.
In this context, the main objective of the activities related to shrimp aquaculture under this project is to identify the
optimal parameters (e.g. stocking density, water exchange rate, salinity and feed rate) for shrimp fanning in
Albania, and explore the commercial viability of shrimp culture. Considering the risk involved in this activities,
the investment would be carried out in the following three phases.
Phase I (2002): The main purpose of this phase to ensure: (a) adequate capacity of the local staff, and (b)
adequate functioning of rehabilitated infrastructure. Rehabilitation of the four ponds would be carried out, and
test grow-out would be conducted in four ponds (2.4 hectares) using PLs to be purchased from the existing
Joint-Venture. Estimated cost for civil works in this phase is about US$180,000.
Phase 11 (2003): Depending on the success of Phase I, and on confirmation of adequate and timely availability
of PLs, experiments would be carried out in six ponds (4.8 hectares) adopting different parameters in each
pond. Investments, estimated to cost US$65,000, would be carried out to improve power line and sea water
supply.
Phase III (2004 onwards): Depending on the outcome of Phase II, further experiments such as introduction of
more intensive technology would be carried out. An investment of approximately US$68,000 is tentatively
envisaged for improving overall infrastructure.
To keep the water quality suitable for shrimp rearing, water exchange of at least 5% per day will be applied. This
water will be pumped from an existing canal that conveys water from the sea. The wastewater will flow into a
settlement and oxidation pond from where it will flow back to the sea. The outlet of the waste water canal will be
situated as far as possible from the intake of the water supply canal in order to avoid contamination. The oxidation
pond can also be treated with a disinfectant to ensure no potential pathogens are reaching the sea.
4. Institutional:
The project would be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food; however, the fishing communities
(FMOs) would play an important role as the main partner to the MoAF. In particular, FMOs will assume active
and participatory engagement in implementing Component I (Fisheries Development). Implementation of
Component 2 (Aquaculture Development) would largely be delegated to the Fishery Research Institute; however,
some FMOs would also be actively engaged. For example, for carp aquaculture, fishermen in Elbasan and other
areas using reservoirs will organize themselves into FMOs to be responsible for restocking carps and controlling
their own fishing activities. In Pogradec, on Lake Ohrid, fishermen will be also engaged in the Koran restocking
activities through the Pogradec FMO as main beneficiaries. They will provide the hatchery with fish eggs from the
catch during the spawning season, and contribute to part of the operation cost for the hatchery.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF) would be designated as the Executing Agency, and have the overall
responsibility for coordinating, through the Project Management Unit (PMU), the implementation of all of the
project activities. The MoAF will establish a Project Steering Committee, comprised mainly of technical directors
(refer Section C.4.A for details) from this ministry and other ministries as appropriate, to provide overall policy
guidance and make strategic decisions on important matters concerning project implementation. The Department
of Fishery (DoF) will be responsible, with the PMU, for the day-to-day coordination of project activities, with the
Fishery Research Institute (FRI) responsible for implementing Project Component 2 (Aquaculture Development).
- 21 -



Department of Fisheries
The DoF is the sole government institution responsible for managing both the marine and freshwater fisheries
sector. It is institutionally very weak, and has a permanent Head Office staff (based in Tirana) of only five people -
one Director and two staff in each of the Fisheries Resources Department and Fisheries Inspectorate. At least 2 of
these 4 staff below the Director function purely as administrators. The Fisheries Inspectorate in turn has a network
of some 7 inspectors at a number of the more important inland lake fish landing sites and coastal ports throughout
the country. Some of the key institutional issues that need to be addressed by the project include:
*   The staff is poorly paid and have inadequate incentives for better performance. In addition, their resources are
severely limited to carry out their duties properly. While the DoF assign regional fishery inspectors at major
landing sites, resources are limited to perform their duties--in most cases the inspectors are confined to
monitoring landings on a part time basis only. Institutional links with the Head Office are also very poor;
*   There is no fisheries policy or strategic development plan for both the sector and the resources;
*   The DoF has no means of enforcing the fisheries law in terms of capacity in MCS (Monitoring, Control and
Surveillance), and has no formal charter agreement with the FRI concerning fisheries research and resource
management (see comments below); and
*   The information system used by the DoF to register fishing vessels, their fishing licenses, catches and landings
is based largely on paper transactions and is ineffective as a tool to improve management of the sector.
The project aims to strengthen the role of the DoF as the key government institution to carry out its primary role of
providing sector policy guidance and strategic planning. In particular, capacity-building initiatives will include:
*   Preparation of a Training-Needs-Assessment (TNA) for all staff at the department and delivery of a training
program;
*   Improving links between the DoF Head Office and regionally based inspectors, and providing all staff with the
necessary skills and resources to perform their duties;
* Investigate the opportunity for recruiting extra staff for the department to build its capacity, and improving
terms and conditions of employment;
*   Preparation of a sector policy and management plan for the sector as tools for long term planning for the
sector; and
*   Development of a Fisheries Management Information System (FMIS) as a tool to improving management of
the sector.
Fishery Research Institute
The Fishery Research Institute (FRI) was established in 1958 in Durres. The primary functions of the FRI are to
explore and introduce new technologies in the fishery and aquaculture sector, and (b)carry out stock assessment in
Albanian waters. However, like other institutions in the MoAF, the FRI is institutionally very weak.
There are a number of institutional issues relating to the capacity of the FRI to perform its primary functions.
These can be summarized as follows:
*   Most of the staff, including technical staff, is paid a very low wage (in line with other public servants) and
there is no incentive for the staff to work efficiently of indeed full-time. Recruitment of new technically
qualified staff is also difficult.
*   Because the institute has a limited budget, the focus of the institute's work is rather on routine (commercial)
work than the scientific research. For example, the majority of the Aquaculture Department is involved in the
cultivation of carp fingerings.
*   The institute has no research vessel to undertake one of its primary functions, and much of its analytical
(laboratory) facilities are inadequate. There is therefore little in the way of applied research undertaken on fish
stock assessment.
*   The FRI has no charter (statute). In addition, although it appears that the FRI comes under the DoF, there is
- 22 -



no formal charter agreement between these two institutions. For example, the limited fish landing data that is
collected by the DoF is not passed on to the FRI unless they ask for it.
The project aims at strengthening the FRI as the main institution to carry out its original functions (refer above). In
particular, the project would assist the FRI in implementing a number of capacity-building initiatives, including:
*   Introduction of an element of performance related pay for technical staff (subject to agreement from the
Govermment and in line with current public sector employment policy);
*   Provision of some financial autonomy to management to sell fingerings and other marine products to the
private sector - such a strategy will help to implement a policy of performance related pay;
* Recruitment of the new younger technically qualified staff to work on developing and promoting the
aquaculture of new marine species;
*   Engagement of the FRI in a number of pilot aquaculture demonstration and rehabilitation projects, and
preparation of a Training-Needs-Assessment (TNA) for staff at the institute and delivery of a training
program.
Under Component 3 of the project, technical assistance would also be provided to the FRI to help prepare a
business management plan for the institute. This would incorporate a new statute to formalize the relationship
between the FRI and the DoF, and provide an action plan for developing the FRI's key competencies.
4.2 Project management:
A project preparation unit (PPU) was established and staffed to oversee preparation of the project. The staff
include a director, a fishery advisor, accountant, procurement specialist, and support staff. Two full-time national
consultants have also been recruited to facilitate the development of the FMOs. The director has worked closely
with the Ministries of Justice, Transport, Economic Cooperation, and Defense to reach consensus on the project
concept under the supervision of the Department of Fisheries. The MoAF intends to transform the PPU into a
project management unit (PMU) once the project is effective. The PMU would have the following sections: (a)
Procurement, (b) Accounting, (c) FMO Support, and (d) Aquaculture Support. A full-time staff would also be
recruited directly under the Director to coordinate with various units in the PMU in carrying out project monitoring
and evaluation.
It is also planned that the PMU would be supported by an international consultant as a Chief Technical Advisor
(CTA), considering the relatively complex technical nature of the project. The main tasks of the chief technical
advisor are to: monitor the overall progress of the project, provide policy guidance particularly on the fishery
management issues, help the PMU director develop an implementation plan, and monitor other international
experts' performance.
4.3 Procurement issues:
No procurement issues are anticipated. All civil works would be carried out using national competitive bidding.
Specialized goods for aquaculture would be procured through international shopping, as the amount for each
contract would be limited.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Project financial management. The financial management for the Fishery Project is handled by an accounting
office composed of two staff, one of which is handling accounting and the other disbursement and cash matters.
The office  is also responsible for the financial management of the Agricultural Services Project that is
implemented by a separate PMU.
The rationale of having one single accounting office for two projects is to avoid duplication of resources in a
country were financial management capacity is quite weak and professional skills available in the job market are
limited. Concentrating the financial management of two Bank-financed projects within a single accounting office
is a more effective way of managing professional skills and allows staff to focus on specific assignments. This also
improves segregation of duties between accounting and disbursement, which cannot be done in a project with only
- 23 -



one financial management staff (as it is in the majority of projects in Albania), and also gives the possibility of
having a back-up arrangement between the two, whenever needed. The fact that the two PMUs are located on the
same building floor has facilitated this decision.
Although the accounting offices for the two operations have merged, the financial management system for each
project is maintained separately. The Fishery Project system has been fully computerized, adopting locally
developed software, and tailored to the project components described above with the assistance of a consulting firm
Both staff have some accounting background, but not having had any previous experience in Bank-financed
projects, and need some further training on Bank financial management requirements.
To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain, and operate, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) denominated in US dollars in the Bank of Albania (BoA). Since
the BoA does not execute commercial transactions with third parties, the PMU will have to transfer the funds from
the SA to a second-level bank account, opened by the project in a bank acceptable to the Bank, from which it will
pay eligible expenses related to the project. All disbursements will occur under the Bank's traditional Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) method.
The project accounts and reports will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit will be
comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of funds, and expenditures
incurred) and it will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. Auditors will be
appointed by the Ministry of Finance to carry out this audit as part of an overall agreement for the audit of the
Bank-financed portfolio in Albania. However, the PMU will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, to provide
the Bank with the project's audited financial statements within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The cost
of the audit will be covered by the GoA.
The assessment of the financial management arrangements has been carried out by the Bank FMS and the project
has in place an adequate system as required by the Bank under OP/BP 10.02.
FMOs' financial sustainability. Since the FMOs will be the main institution to operate and manage the fishing
ports to be rehabilitated, the sustainability of the rehabilitated ports would largely depend on the capacity of the
FMOs to assure financial sustainability as well. Experience from the on-going irrigation project indicate that
financial management of community-based organizations is crucial in order to maintain trust among members, and
being able to collect adequate financial contributions from their members. During project implementation, the
MoAF will delegate the responsibility to monitor, support and train the FMOs in financial management to the
PMU.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A. Existing Environmental Issues to be Addressed by the Project
Currently the Albanian fishery sector is almost completely unregulated, and both marine and freshwater fisheries
are in danger of being depleted by over-fishing and the use of destructive and unsustainable fishing methods.
Ocean demersal stocks are particularly vulnerable due to heavy near-shore trawling, and the Koran fish, endemic
to Lake Ohrid, is in danger of extinction if unlicensed fishing is left unchecked. Foreign vessels are fishing
Albanian waters without control, contributing further to over-fishing and depletion of stocks. In addition, fishing
ports have been seriously neglected, leaving both grounds and waters polluted by solid waste, posing health and
safety risks to humans.
The project was designed to address these ecological and environmental issues; one of the two main objectives of
the proposed project is to achieve the sustainable use of fisheries resources through (a) developing a regulatory and
- 24 -



institutional framework for fisheries, (b) involving fishing communities in ports and fisheries resource
management, (c) training Department of Fisheries and Fishery Research Institute personnel, (d) establishing
programs for collecting information on fisheries stocks, (e) strengthening the Koran restocking program, and (f)
testing alternative, ecologically sustainable fishing techniques and gear. In addition, the project would assist in
rehabilitating and cleaning up Albania's major sea and lake port facilities, and would engage fishermen in
managing fishing ports.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Ocean Demersal Stocks
Fishermen in Albania are currently using old bottom trawlers to catch demersal fish, and because their operations
are unregulated, stocks have declined substantially in recent years, resulting in smaller and smaller harvests.
Fishermen sometimes invest in new trawling gear and engines, wrongly believing that they can increase their catch
using the same techniques with newer equipment. In addition, recent increases in oil prices have limited the areas
fished to those nearest the shore, which are used as nursery grounds by demersal species. There are no controlled
closed seasons for spawning, no minimum size of fish allowed for catch, and no conservation of nursery areas.
And illegal fishing by foreign vessels is rampant, contributing further to the depletion of stocks.
The Government has no institutional or regulatory framework, and no monitoring or enforcement capacity for
protecting and sustainably managing these demersal stocks. Therefore, the project would support the institutional
strengthening of local Fishery Management Organizations (FMOs), and make them partners with the Government
in co-managing fisheries resources. To develop the management capacity of FMOs, the project would raise
fishermen's awareness and knowledge of sustainable marine resource management, promote self regulation
towards sustainable marine resource management, and set up programs for collecting information regarding
catches and stocks of fisheries resources. The project would assist the FMOs in developing fishery management
plans and local fishing regulations on allowable catch, off-limits seasons and areas, minimum sizes, and allowable
equipment, as well as licensing and enforcement mechanisms.
In addition, the project would assist the Government in developing regulatory and institutional frameworks, and a
management plan for the sector. The project would also provide technical assistance to prepare the Government
for negotiating bilateral treaties on fisheries. It would also provide a Fisheries Management Information System
(FMIS) and help to develop the capacity of the Fishery Research Institute in collecting information regarding
catches and stocks of marine resources, and in conducting research on new species for aquaculture.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lake Ohrid Koran
The rapid decline in the stock of the Lake Ohrid trout (Koran) is also becoming a major environmental concern.
Koran is endemic to the lake, and has a strong domestic market. The decline is reportedly due partly to the large
volume of illegal (unlicensed) fishing, and to less than successful efforts to restock the lake. Therefore the project
would support the Government's and the communities' efforts to address these challenges through (a) establishing
FMOs that would co-manage the fishery with the Government, (b) assisting FMOs in developing and enforcing
fishing regulations, (c) rehabilitating the restocking facilities in Lin to intensify the restocking effort, and (d)
exploring the financial and technical viability of aquaculture for Koran.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lagoon Fisheries
Lagoon fishing is popular in Albania, and reportedly some 500 families depend on lagoon fishing, mainly for eel
and sea bass. However, during recent years lagoon fisheries have declined significantly, due partly to illegal
(unlicensed) fishing, and partly to the use of explosives as a method of fishing. Fishermen will be sensitized to the
damage done by explosives and enforcement of regulations will be addressed through the community-based
co-management proposed under the project. Under the project, FMOs would share the responsibility for the
enforcement of fisheries regulations with the State. As these lagoons provide important habitats for migratory
birds, such as pelicans and herons, it is critical that lagoon fishing is controlled and fisheries stocks are
maintained. The project plans to help establish lagoon FMOs in Narta, Karavasta, and Butrint.
- 25 -



Pollutionfrom Fishing Ports
The project would carry out minor rehabilitation and improvements to fishing port facilities in order to meet very
basic international standards of navigation safety and hygiene, and to support the FMOs' management of these
facilities. Specifically, the project would clean up wreckage, repair damage to essential port facilities (e.g., quays
and jetties), and provide essential infrastructure such as water supply, toilets, offices for FMOs, and small storage
facilities. In addition, the project would finance the preparation of management plans for fishing ports and
grounds, which will be carried out jointly by the FMOs and the Department of Fisheries.
Compliance with International Conventions
Compliance with a number of international conventions also needs to be addressed by the project. In accordance
with the recommendations of the Committee on Fisheries (COF) at its Nineteenth Session in March 1991 and the
subsequent International Conference on Responsible Fishing, held in Cancun (Mexico) in 1992, the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations prepared a voluntary Code of Practice for Responsible
Fisheries (1994). The Code was formulated so as to be interpreted and applied in conformity with the relevant
rules of international law, as reflected in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982 (UNCLOS).
The Twenty-eighth Session of FAO in Resolution 4/95 adopted the Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries on
31 October 1995. The same Resolution ushered in appropriate precautionary (as opposed to reactionary) technical
guidelines for the procedures for the development and management of harbors and landing places for fishing
vessels. Some of the provisions in these guidelines may be or have already been given binding effect by means of
legal instruments or third country directives, such as:
UNCLOS 82 (UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, December 82);
MONTREAL PROTOCOL (Montreal Protocol to the Vienna Convention);
MARPOL 73/78 (International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1973, as modified
by the Protocol of 1978);
*UNCED 92 (UN Conference on the Environment and Development, June 1992);
LDC 1972 (London Dumping Convention, 1972);
EEC COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 91/493/EEC.
B. Potential Environmental Risks from Project Activities
Environmental assessments were carried out for port rehabilitation components at each of the six major ports
selected for the project's first phase. Environmental assessments were also carried out for the aquaculture
component for Koran, shrimp, and eel. The aquaculture of tilapia will be tested on a small scale in irrigation
reservoirs that have no outlets to natural lakes or rivers.
There are two major project activities that may potentially present risks to the environment and ecology: (a) the
larger-scale aquaculture activities for Koran, and high-value marine species; and (b) construction works for the
rehabilitation of the fishing ports. There are also some environmental risks associated with the possible increase in
fishing activities that result from the project's ports rehabilitation and fisheries management activities.
- 26 -



Aquaculture
The second major objective of the project is to restore the country's original capacity in traditional fresh water
aquaculture, and explore Albania's potential in the aquaculture of high-value species in order to provide new
opportunities for income generation and take pressure off diminishing stocks of wild species. The aquaculture
development component would mainly aim to: (a) restore the original capacity of fresh water aquaculture through
support to FMOs at inland reservoirs, (b) support the Government's program to restock Koran in Lake Ohrid, and
(c) support the Government's initiatives to explore the potential for aquaculture of new, high value species through
demonstration programs. Specifically, the project would include: (a) support to restocking of carp in reservoirs, (b)
support to the Koran restocking program, and (c) a pilot program to test the aquaculture of new marine and fresh
water species.
In general, the preliminary assessments found that the potential environmental impacts of the proposed aquaculture
programs are not significant and can be mitigated sufficiently. The primary impacts would come from: (a) organic
waste water from hatcheries and grow-out ponds, and (b) organic sedimentation (sludge) in the grow-out ponds.
There are also risks associated with the accidental introduction of new species into the wild, which may carry
disease, unfavorable changes in the genetic pool, and competitive pressure on indigenous species. The project is
designed to minimize these environmental risks associated with aquaculture.
Restocking Koran in Lake Ohrid. The Ohrid trout, or Koran, (salmo letnica) is endemic to Lake Ohrid, and its
stocks are being depleted mainly due to over-fishing. The Government is already operating, at low capacity, a
hatchery in Lin for restocking Koran. This subcomponent would mainly consist of rehabilitation of and minor
improvements to the existing hatchery, and technical assistance programs to improve the management of the
restocking facilities.
The primary environmental risks associated with this subcomponent would be from the organic wastes discharged
from the hatchery into the lake, which could lead to the build-up of organic matter on the lake bottom, causing
eutrophication. To mitigate this risk, the project would utilize specially formulated fish food containing limited
amounts of phosphorus, which would minimize the amount of phosphorus in the effluent discharged into lake.
The project would also construct a purification wetland in the area between the hatchery and the lake. The wetland
or "pond" would function as a bio-filter, using specific plant and fish species that are able to utilize the organic
waste from hatchery operations. A plan for regular monitoring of water quality is being developed, and technical
assistance would be provided to hatchery staff for environmental management.
There is no risk from the release of mature Koran into the lake. Usually there is a reluctance to release animals
bred in captivity into wild populations because they may be genetically less vigorous or lack the imprint necessary
to find their spawning grounds. This is not a concem in this case because the Koran fry will come from wild
parents that spawn in the area where the hatchery raised fish are being released.
Demonstration of Shrimp Aquaculture. Under this subcomponent, the project would establish an aquaculture
demonstration unit, including a hatchery and some on-growing ponds, to demonstrate semi intensive shrimp
farming methods and to provide a training center. The demonstration unit will utilize existing carp farm facilities
in Kavaja that were formerly operated by the state.
The environmental impact of the demonstration farm is limited because of its siting in an area already converted to
aquaculture, near a commercial shrimp farm already in operation. The risks of introducing Marsupeneus
japonicas into Albanian waters are considered insubstantial since the species already exists in the Mediterranean,
and there are no reported cases of it displacing the native species, Marsupeneus kerathurus. The hatchery's main
impact would be the discharge of effluent into the sea in front of the farm. This discharge will contain organic
waste, but otherwise no toxic or non-biodegradable substances.  Thus far, there have not been adverse
environmental impacts of the existing shrimp farm in Kavaja and the canal conveying the outflow from the ponds
and hatchery is full of fish, which means that the water is sufficiently oxygenated. Nevertheless, to ensure that the
waste water is of acceptable quality, a purification wetland from which filtered water can flow into the sea will be
constructed. The sea is shallow in front of the farm, so the receiving waters will be well aerated, which is
- 27 -



conducive to a speedy breakdown of the remaining organic material. In addition, the management practices
described in a document called "Codes of practice for responsible shrimp farming" issued by the Global
Aquaculture Alliance would be adopted by the project.
To limit the spread of diseases, the project would use strict quarantine procedures with new brood stock. Also, the
area for releasing effluents will be carefully situated so that effluents do not mix with the water supply of the same
and other shrimp farms.
Demonstration of Sea Bass and Sea Bream culture. The environmental impact of Sea Bass and Sea Bream culture
is practically identical to the envirounental impact of shrimp culture. The only impact will be the discharge of
waste water from the grow-out ponds and eventually the hatchery. Waste water from the culturing of Sea Bass and
Sea Bream will be treated in the same way as the waste water from the culturing of shrimp, using the same
purification wetland. Monitoring of BOD and COD of the effluent according to standard methods will be carried
out by the FRI every 2 months during reproduction and grow-out season. Although the existing farm does not
report any accumulation of sludge, (the ponds are periodically dry and the bottom is plowed and disinfected with
quick lime), eventual sludge will be used as fertilizer in the adjacent agricultural land after being put in one of the
numerous unused ponds first to leach the salt from it.
Demonstration of Tilapia Aquaculture. Aquaculture of tilapia is currently underway on a pilot basis under the
IDA-financed irrigation project, for which water user associations are using cages to conduct grow-outs of tilapia
fingerlings provided by the Fishery Research Institute. It has been found that the particular species of tilapia
proposed for this project very likely cannot survive in the wild because water temperatures are too low during the
winter in Albania. Tilapia would therefore not pose any threat to native species. This would be confirmed during
the first year of the project before the Pilot Fishery Development Project sets up a demonstration of tilapia
aquaculture at a state-owned hatchery facility at Durres.
Rehabilitation/Upgrading of Fishing Port Facilities
Because Albania's shore-based fisheries infrastructure has been neglected for more than a decade, much of it has
fallen into disrepair, and solid waste materials have accumulated near the jetties. Therefore, the project would
provide FMOs with basic fishing port infrastructure or would rehabilitate existing facilities to international
standards in order to improve navigational safety and hygiene standards. It would also set up waste reception
systems in line with International Maritime Organization (IMO) recommendations, and carry out substantial
clean-up works to remove the many wrecks and accumulated rubbish. Construction for the proposed rehabilitation
and/or upgrades to the port facilities would not be substantial, and would not alter any of the ports' locations or
capacity.
A comprehensive Environmental Assessment of the proposed port development work was undertaken in
March-May 2001. The following is a list of issues addressed (and mitigating measures proposed) in the EA Report
with regard to the physical works proposed under the project.
*   Physical intrusion on the environment of the FMO buildings
*   Loss of shoreline habitat
*   Pollution of aquatic environment from vessel operations (oily bilge water, spent engine oil, hazardous waste,
nontoxic voluminous wastes, wet wastes and Refueling)
*   Generation of Wastes on an Industrial Scale
*   Generation of Objectionable Odors
*   Generation of Increased Traffic Within City Limit
*   Increased Demand for Public Utilities (in relation to water, electricity and sewerage treatment), and
*   Increased Demand for Forest Products
An Environmental Assessment Report was prepared in May 2001. The Govermnent organize a public consultation
on June 15, 2001 inviting fishing communities, local government officials, local NGOs, and officials from relevant
ministries, including the National Environmental Agency.  During the consultation, the findings of the
- 28 -



environmental assessment were presented, and no concerns were raised.
IDA received a copy of the Environmental Assessment and minutes of the environmental consultation on July 1,
2001. The translated Environmental Assessment is also available at the World Bank Tirana Office.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A key environmental issue to be addressed is the status of natural fish stocks, and the primary purpose of the
project is to rebuild and maintain exploitation of those stocks on an environmentally and economically sustainable
basis. The environmental management plan intends to ensure that the project activities designed to achieve these
objectives, specifically aquaculture and ports rehabilitation, do not have additional negative environmental
impacts. Specific measures must be taken to prevent or minimize environmental impact during the construction
and start-up phases of these activities, and mitigation and monitoring procedures will be established for the
operational stages in collaboration with FMOs, the Department of Fisheries, and the National Environmental
Agency.
Infrastructure works would be designed in conformity with all the relevant codes and conventions. In addition, the
project would install waste reception hardware and implement the FAO-IMO Cleaner Harbors Program at each of
the project sites in conjunction with the FMOs. The project would also introduce proper wet waste disposal
receptacles which will go a long way in solving potential hygiene and odor problems. Receptacles would also be
provided for hazardous solid wastes, such as starter batteries, oil filters, and oily rags.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: July 1, 2001
Final draft EA was forwarded to IDA on July 1, 2001 with the minutes of the public consultation.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Public consultations on the proposed project were carried out with a large number of project stakeholders in
collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and the National Environmental Agency.
Prior to the public consultations, workshops were carried out by both the PPU, local and international consultants
during each phase of project preparation (identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal) at fishing ports and inland
fish landing sites throughout the country, explaining the project concept, and identifying public concerns on
environmental impact. These workshops were attended by a variety of stakeholders, including local fishermen
(FMOs), local NGOs, and local government officials. These workshops have certainly influenced the design of the
project; for example, eel culture has been dropped from the project, as there were concerns raised by lagoon
fishermen who may be influenced by the wild catch of elvers.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Monitoring
In principle, the PMU will be responsible for monitoring the environmental impacts of the project under the
supervision of the Department of Fisheries. However, FMOs and FRI would also be involved in data collection,
they will be trained in environmental monitoring, and environmental regulations would be established for the
management of each of the aquaculture and fishing port operations.
Monitoring would be carried out for the following items specified in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
Rehabilitation of Fishing Ports. The FMOs will monitor the handling of waste via the reception facilities provided
under the project. It will be an integral part of their management of port facilities. The DoF will monitor
- 29 -



compliance using its fishing inspector.
Aquaculture Component. The FRI will be mainly responsible for collecting data.
*   Koran Restocking. The effluent of the purification wetland will be analyzed for BOD and COD according to
standard methods every 2 months throughout the year. Monitoring equipment will be provided under the
project. The technical personnel of the Lin hatchery, which is a part of the FRI, will be trained in BOD and
COD analysis by the international consultant.
*   Demonstration Facilities in Kavaja. The effluent from the demonstration facility in Kavaja will be analyzed
and monitored in the same way and with the same frequency as the effluent from the hatchery at Lin. The
monitoring would be carried out by a local biologist who will be recruited for this project with the assistance of
an international consultant.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The major social objective of the project is to introduce community-based co-management of fishing ports and
common marine resources. In particular, the project envisages establishing fishermen's organizations to be called
Fishery Management Organizations (FMOs), which would democratically undertake fishing port management and
marine resource management in partnership with the Department of Fisheries (DoF) within the MoAF and other
stakeholders such as the National Environmental Agency (NEA). The FMOs would be community-based,
semi-private bodies that operate on a nonprofit basis.
The first task for the FMOs is to manage the fishing ports. Upon their establishment, general assemblies would be
organized to select the president and the members of the board, which would largely be responsible for the
day-to-day operation of the FMOs. In practice, a technical manager and other staff (e.g., accountant) will be
employed in accordance with a decision of the General Assembly.  During project preparation, extensive
discussions were held with fishing communities at each key fishing site about the qualifications for membership in
the FMOs.
The consensus among the fishing communities, including boat owners, captains and other crew members consulted
to date is that boat owners (licence holders) should certainly be members. Captains, engineers and experienced
professional fishermen should also be allowed to join in accordance with criteria established by the FMOs
themselves. However voting rights will not be equal. The boat owners will be entitled to around 75% of the votes.
The crew members (i.e., including captains and engineers) will hold the remaining 25% of votes. The effect of this
arrangement will be that the boat owners will hold a majority of the votes. However the crews will still have a say
in the operation of each FMO. It is also considered appropriate to reserve one or more seats on the Administrative
Council of each FMO for crew members.
Regarding the allocation of votes among boat owners this could be done on the basis of equality, with each boat
owner holding the same share of votes. However, this would only be fair if they all paid the same contribution
towards the running costs of the FMO. A fairer approach might be to base contributions on the size or capacity of
each vessel and then to allocate votes in the same proportions. A similar approach could be taken to the allocation
of the votes among the crews, with more votes being allocated to captains and engineers who would also have to
pay a higher membership fee. This issue was discussed during project appraisal and broadly agreed upon as a
reasonable concept by the fishing communities.
The second main task of the FMOs will be to participate in the management of fisheries resources in partnership
with the Department of Fisheries. The current approach to fisheries management in Albania is rather traditional
and conventional. Management rules concerning access to, and the exploitation of, fisheries are set centrally by the
state, largely on the basis of scientific criteria. These rules, which include a requirement for licenses and
registration, are intended to be enforced by the state through the use of penalties and sanctions for noncompliance.
- 30 -



This approach is a 'top down' approach that at present the state cannot afford to implement. In turn this has led
over the last few years to wide scale illegal fishing. However, even if the state did have adequate resources to pay
for fisheries enforcement measures (such as patrol vessels, spotter planes, the recruitment of scores of armed
fisheries inspectors with sophisticated surveillance equipment etc.) it is unlikely that this 'top down' approach
would work. It is an approach that has been tried throughout the world and which is invariably adjudged to have
tailed.
First of all, the failure to involve fishers and fishing communities in rule setting means that inappropriate rules are
often set in the first place. Furthermore such rules, which are imposed without consultation or agreement with
stakeholders, lack legitimacy among those against whom they are directed. Consequently they are not followed.
The nature of the fisheries sector is such that the costs of enforcement are prohibitive and unaffordable for most
states. Weak enforcement in turn leads to reduced incentives for compliance leading to a gradual breakdown of
management systems. Consequently, the modern approach to the management of fisheries resources is
co-management'. This approach is found in several European countries, including the Mediterranean fisheries of
France and Spain and is proposed for Albania.
In the Albanian context co-management would mean that the State, through the Fisheries Directorate, and the
FMOs would share responsibility for the management of Albania's marine and inland fisheries resources.
Specifically, decisions concerning the management of fisheries resources would be made jointly by the State and by
the FMOs. A co-management approach in Albania would require the joint preparation of management plans for
individual fisheries, or fishing areas, by the state and the FMOs. These plans would be based on fisheries data,
such as data on the quantities and types of landings, obtained both by the state (for example by the Fisheries
Research Institute) and by the FMOs. The plans would then be jointly agreed by the state and the FMOs following
consultation with other stakeholders, such as the Local Fisheries Consultative Commissions and the Environment
Agency. The plans would set out the management measures to be taken, such as the use of licenses, restrictions on
types of gears, closed seasons and areas etc. These measures would be turned into management rules which would
then be enforced by the FMOs against their own members through self-policing and by the State against
nonmembers, such as illegal fishermen. Implementation of the management plans would of course require the
continued collection of data. The co-management approach will lead to the making of better and more enforceable
management decisions.
The Fisheries Development Project would provide technical assistance both to the state and to FMOs concerning
the development of the co-management approach.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As stated in the previous section, this project envisages to support the initial development of community-based
co-mnanagement of fishing ports and marine resource management. In this context, the fishing communities are not
only participating in the project, but also have substantial ownership of the project. The participation of the fishing
communities would take place in each phase of the project cycle as follows.
- 31 -



A. Project Preparation
During project identification, a series of workshops for fishermen was organized in the major fishing towns of
Vlora, Shingjin (Lezhe), Shkodra, Durres, Saranda, and Pogradec in order to raise awareness on the importance of
organizing themselves and establishing FMOs. A Social Assessment was conducted following these workshops to
identify the key social development issues and to inform the design of the project. Several workshops were held
among those active in the fishing communities to discuss the findings of the Social Assessment and recommend
actions to address the findings. Through these measures, the proposed rehabilitation and improvement for the
fishing ports have also been identified through consultation with the fishing communities. During these
workshops, it was found that fishermen indeed have many concerns over the current fishing practices such as
rampant illegal trawling, and explosives fishing. Fishermen are also concerned about the absence of management
in fishing port facilities and obsolete facilities. It was also found that fishermen are generally not satisfied with the
Government because they are not consulted on its policies. Fishermen are frustrated by the fact that the
Government takes no action against the illegal operation either by foreign or national vessels, and are ready to
organize themselves to take actions.
However, these workshops also revealed that there are several informal groups established in each port
representing different interest groups, such as boat owners, small fishermen, and lagoon fishermen. The project's
design was based on consultations with representatives of such various informal groups and facilitate the
integration of these groups into a single organization. In some areas, it was difficult, as they are often in conflict
with each other, and it is apparent that the first effort during project preparation is to set up a FMO as an umbrella
to encompass all of these informal groups, and harmonize each group's interest. Finally, the concept of FMOs was
discussed and agreed with all different interest groups, and these groups are being merged into a single entity. A
draft amendment to the Law on Fishery and Aquaculture was prepared during project preparation, and has been
approved by the Council of Ministers for submission to the Parliament (a condition for Board presentation).
A social assessment was conducted for the purpose of systematically understanding the conditions in Albania that
affect development of fisheries and to determine how to best design and implement the project in light of these
conditions at six sites: Kukes, Lin, Narta, Saranda, Shiroka and Vlora. The Social Assessment confirmed that
fishermen in general strongly support the project, and concept of the FMOs. The key findings of the assessment
are: (i) some fishing communities have been attempting to establish and operate informal associations to manage
fishing resources, but with very limited effect; (ii) establishment of FMOs will be critical to addressing key social
development issues of declining fishing-based incomes and inadequate management of fisheries resources, but
there is significant lack of confident among fishermen about their own ability to make FMOs work; (iii) fishermen
feel that FMOs should address fish reproduction and restocking, law enforcement, licensing, development of
port/landing site facilities, and development of marketing and marketing facilities; (iv) an overwhelming majority
of fishermen are willing to help enforce rules, regulations and laws of FMOs; (v) FMO membership should be open
to various groups, including part-time fishermen and service suppliers, and the licensing system should
accommodate the needs of these various groups; and (vi) a vast majority of fishermen are willing to pay
membership dues and can afford to pay annual amounts that exceed the dues of existing associations. Stakeholder
workshops in several regions of Albania are planned to discuss the findings and implications of the Social
Assessment prior to the Board Presentation.
B. Project Implementation
The project is designed to be implemented in full partnership between the Government (PMU) and fishing
communities (FMOs). In particular, under Component 1, a series of investments including physical investment
and technical assistance would be provided to FMOs. FMOs will be involved in the detailed design, and
supervision of civil works to be carried out. Upon completion, FMOs will take over managerial responsibilities of
the fishing ports. Technical assistance would be provided under this component to support the FMOs in this end. It
would cover the following topics: (a) initial support for FMOs (preparing charters and internal regulations, setting
up administrative procedures), (b) preparation of the fishery management plans, and (c) on-site demonstrations.
In addition, several aquaculture activities proposed under Component 2 would also be carried out in collaboration
- 32 -



with the FMOs. In particular, carp aquaculture would be carried out through a grant program by the FMOs. In
support for restocking Ohrid trout, FMOs will be responsible for providing fish eggs and make financial
contribution to the hatchery operations.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As stated in the previous section, FMOs, democratic organizations of fishermnen in principle, will be fully consulted
and actively involved in project preparation and implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As stated above, FMOs will be fully consulted and actively involved in project preparation and implementation. As
a first step, two representatives from fishing communities have already been recruited as national consultants to
PPU. Under the Component 2, these two national consultants would be retained and directly collaborate with the
FMOs together with eight regional coordinators to ensure that the project would keep its linkage with the fishing
communities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terns of social development outcomes?
Annual assessment of FMO performnance is planned to ensure FMOs' technical and administrative capacity. The
project implementation unit (PIU) will be responsible for monitoring the project and evaluating its results.
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) results will be used to identify problems in project planning and
implementation and facilitate effective changes to the project. Stakeholders will participate in the M&E process to
ensure thorough feedback of results and to educate targeted beneficiaries about problems and successes. Key
performance indicators include baseline data, process indicators, output indicators and project impact indicators.
The Social Assessment identified several indicators to monitor and evaluate the project's impact:
*   Number of FMOs established;
*   Number of people, by type of member, joining FMOs and actively participating in FMO activities;
* Number of fishing zones covered by active FMOs;
*   Number of people trained in FMO management, fisheries management, fish reproduction, fishing techniques,
and other educational programs relevant to the fisheries industry;
*   Number of fish reproduced in each fishing zone;
*   Number of violations of fishing laws and regulations by FMO members and nonrembers in each fishing zone;
*   Absolute size of fish populations and their growth rates in each fishing zone;
*   Number of people actively fishing in each fishing zone; and
*   Amount of income by households derived from fishing-related activities.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                       Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)               0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                       0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                      O Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)       * Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*            0 Yes 0 No
- 33 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment (EA). An EA was carried out in compliance with the OP 4.01 during preparation. (See
Section 6.)
Natural habitat. The project would support groups of fishermen who are currently fishing in lagoons designated as
natural parks. One of these lagoons, Karavasta, is an important habitat for various migratory birds including
several endangered species and is designated as a Ramsar Site. Butrint Lagoon, which is located near a valuable
archeological site, is designated as a national park. Ohrid Lake, shared with Macedonia, is also designated as a
national park.
However, it should be noted that the project would focus on the sustainability of lagoon fishing, mainly through
development and enforcement of fishing regulations through FMOs, and would not aim to increase the capacity or
intensity of fishing in lagoons. The project would mainly focus on technical assistance to lagoon FMOs, including
the preparation of Fishery Management Plans and support for controlling unlicensed fishing and the use of
explosives.
International Waters. The project would finance rehabilitation of the existing research facilities in Lin and
construction of a small landing facilities in Udenisht, both of which are located on the shore of Lake Ohrid, which
is shared with FYR Macedonia. Similarly, the project would develop small landing facilities in Koplik and Zogaj
on Lake Shkodra, which is shared with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Both riparian countries were duly
notified of these project activities in accordance with OP/BP 7.50. FYR Macedonia provided its no objection to the
proposed rehabilitation on Lake Ohrid on January 21, 2002, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia gave its no
objection to the project's proposed landing facilities on Lake Shkodra on January 18, 2002.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project aims to provide an appropriate policy and institutional framework for technically,
environmentally and socially sustainable marine resource management and fishery sector development. To
achieve this, the project would:
*   Explicitly promote the participation of fishermen (the major stakeholders) in day-to-day resource
management through community-based organizations (FMOs);
*   Strengthen the essential functions of the public sector (resource monitoring, policy coordination, and
research) through technical assistance to the Department of Fisheries and the Fishery Research
Institution;
* Provide essential facilities for landing fishery products which can be maintained by the FMOs
themselves.
Aquaculture activities are also planned to achieve sustainability. In particular, the following considerations
were made for each planned activity.
*   Carp. The proposed activity would facilitate the establishment of FMOs which would control fishing
activities, and jointly finance the annual restocking costs. The project would only fnance part of the
restocking costs for the first three years.
*   Tilapia. The project would provide participating WUAs with cages. After the trial during the first
year, the WUAs would decide whether to retain cages and continue tilapia culture. If they did, they
would purchase fingerlings from the FRI at cost, and continue the aquaculture activity on their own.
*   Koran. While the restocking facility needs continuous state funding, partial cost recovery from the
fishing communities would be introduced.
- 34 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Cannot achieve sustainable use of marine   H         Continuous training for FMOs and full
resources due to lack of fishing                     involvement in preparing fisheries management
comnmunities' interest.                              plans. Special promotions of identified
eco-tourism related to marine resources would
be helpful raise awareness in the fishing
communities.
Cannot achieve proper management of         S        Extensive monitoring during implementation to
fishing ports due to lack of                         identify any issues in operation of FMOs (e.g.,
capacity in fishing communities.                     misuse of funds) and early intervention.
Lack of political commitment to            N          The draft amendment to the Law on Fisheries
supporting FMOs.                                     and Aquaculture must be approved by the
Council of Ministers as a condition of Board
Presentation.
Inability of the State and FMOs to reach a  S        Appointment of a facilitator/arbitrator to reach
compromise on the co-management                      consensus on both sides.
framework.
From Components to Outputs
Insecure and politically unstable           S
environment.
Insufficient capacity of the PMU due to     S        Training of all PMU staff in project
the departure of critical staff.                     administration; specialized support, particularly
M&E, in financial management; and planning
with expatriate advisors to establish a strong
team.
Availability of counterpart funds and      M         Timely annual review of the needs for
co-financing.                                        counterpart funds and continuous discussion
with identified prospective cofinanciers.
Inadequate capacity of the FRI in          H         Provide staff with better incentives and training.
aquaculture activities.
Technical and administrative difficulties  H         Implement a phased approach for advanced
for advanced aquaculture activities.                 aquaculture.
Overall Risk Rating                        H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
It should be noted that the overall risks involved in the proposed project are high. This is mainly because:
(a) the proposed approach of community-based co-management of marine resource is new to the country,
and (b) the proposed activities in advanced aquaculture may face technical, administrative, and social
challenges. The risks have been mitigated by adopting a phased approach and providing technical
assistance. For example, the rehabilitation of ports would be carried out in three phases linked to the
development of the FMOs. The aquaculture activities would also be carried out in three phases to ensure
the capacity of the borrower.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
- 35 -



None
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board Condition:
*   Council of Minister's approval on the draft Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture for submission to
Parliament.
Dated Covenant:
*   Submission to IDA of an Annual Work Program and Budget satisfactory to IDA by November
30 of each year for the following Government fiscal year.
Covenant:
*   Provision of adequate funds for Operation and Maintenance costs for the hatchery in Lin.
Audits and Account:
*   Standard auditing covenants will apply.
Management:
*   The PMU will be maintained and adequately staffed.
Monitoring, review and reporting:
*   Standard reporting covenants will apply.
*   An in-depth mid-term review will be undertaken no later than June 30, 2004.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
E 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Borrower is currently preparing detailed designs for the rehabilitation of fishing ports and first year
- 36 -



construction for the aquaculture facilities using the PPF.
A project implementation plan has been prepared by the Borrower.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1I 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
-    Toru Konishi                          ephR. Goldberg                  Christ            an
Team Leader                          ector Manager                    Coun    Manager    rector
- 37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Performance        Data Colhiction Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indlcators                                    Critlcal Assumptons
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increased production in the  Sectoral GDP           Annual Economic Report    Steady macro-economic
fisheries and aquaculture                                                     stability
sector
Regional security
Good access to international
markets
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Fishing ports managed     Number of fishing ports and  Annual Report          Adequate technical and
satisfactorily            landing sites properly                              financial capacity of the
managed                                             FMOs
Collection of harbor fees                           Support to FMOs from the
government as well as fishing
communities
Sustainable use of marine  Enforcement of management Annual Report            Good management and
resources achieved        plans by fishermen                                  adequate administrative skills
themselves, resulting in                            of FMOs
decrease in illegal fishing
Collaboration with the
relevant authorities
Steady, but sustainable   Annual Report             Adequate technical and
production at inland lakes                          financial capacity of the
concerned FMOs
Satisfactory operation of the
hatchery at Lin
Aquaculture development   Number of fishermen/farmers Annual Report           Steady domestic market
achieved                  demonstrating increase in
income
Annual contribution to the                          Adequate capacity of the
operation cost for the hatchery                      Pogadec FMO, Fishermen's
in Lin from fishermen                               recognition of the need for
restocking
Annual production of the                             Sufficient technical capacity
shrimp/eel at the                                   at the FRI
demonstration center
Preparation of the model  Annual Report             Sufficient technical capacity
investment plan for shrimp                          at the FRI, Access to market,
and eel farms                                       suitable climatic conditions
- 38 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Operation of fishing port  number of fishing ports  Annual and Quarterly Report Adequate interest of
improved (Component 1)    rehabilitated                                       fishermen in organizing
themselves into FMOs and
number of FMOs taking over                          participating in the project
operation and management
Political commitment to
number of FMOs adopting                             support FMOs
fishing port management
plans
Institutional framework   number of FMOs established                          Adequate capacity of the
towards community-based                                                       Department of Fishery, FMOs'
marine resource management                                                    commitment and interest in
established and operational  number of fisheries                              fisheries management
(Components I and 3)      management plan developed
and adopted
total number of members
organized under the FMOs
number of FMO members
trained
preparation of a business plan
for the Fishery Research
Institute
number of staff at DoF and
FRI trained
Aquaculture sector        Number of fishermen engaged Annual and Quarterly Report Adequate interest of
development (Component 2)  in freshwater aquaculture in                       fishermen/farmers
large reservoirs
Normal Weather /Marine
Resource Conditions
Number of WUAs participatin                         Adequate interest of
in demonstration of new                             fishermen/farmers
freshwater aquaculture
Hatchery at Lin rehabilitated                       Adequate motivation by the
and operational                                     FRI
Aquaculture Center for                              Adequate motivation by the
Shrimps and eels established                        FRI
in Kavaja
- 39 -



Project Components       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                        Outputs)
Component I (Support for                           Annual and Quarterly Report Secure and politically stable
Community-Based                                                             environment
Co-management for Marine
Resources)                                                                  Sufficient capacity of the
PMU due to the continued
support of critical staff
Component 2 (Aquaculture
Development)                                                                Availability of counterpart
funds and contributions from
fishing communities and
Component 3 (Institutional                                                  WUAs
Support for DoF and FRI)
Component 4 (Project
Administration Support)
-40 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The proposed project aims to carry out the following components: (i) Support for Community-Based
Co-Management of Fisheries, (ii) Aquaculture Development, (iii) Institutional Support for the Department of
Fisheries and Fisheries Research Institute, (iv) Project Management, and (v) PPF Refinancing.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.35 million
Support for Community-Based Co-Management of Fisheries
The aim of this component would be to support the fishery sector through developing community-based Fishery
Management Organizations (FMOs) and rehabilitating fishing ports. The component would also support the
preparation of fisheries management plans for the FMOs, which would include rules and regulations for fishing
activities.
Subcomponent 1. Rehabilitation of Fishing Port Facilities (US$2.16 million)
This subcomponent would carry out small-scale rehabilitation work and/or improvements to facilities at a number
of fishing ports and fish landing sites in order to meet basic international standards of navigation safety and
hygiene, and to support the FMOs' management of these facilities. The project would clean up wreckage, repair
damage to essential port facilities (e.g., quays and jetties), and provide essential infrastructure such as water
supply, toilets, offices for FMOs, and small storage facilities. Fences would be constructed to limit access to the
fishing ports, protect them from theft, and help maintain hygiene standards. In Zogaj and Koplik (on Lake
Shkodra), and Udenisht (on Lake Ohrid), small landing facilities would be established to help fishermen land their
catches. The proposed rehabilitation and improvements are summarized below.
Table 1. Proposed Rehabilitation of Fishing Ports
Shingjin:             Site clean-up, FMO office, water supply, sewage tanks, quay works, fuel storage, waste
receptacles.
Durres:               Site clean-up, FMO office, water supply (mobile), sewage tanks, quay fittings, fuel
storage (mobile), waste receptacles.
Vlora                 Site clean-up, removal of wrecks, two FMO offices, water supply (mobile), sewage
tanks, quay fittings, fuel storage (mobile), and water receptacles.
Saranda               Site clean-up, removal of wrecks, office, water supply, sewage tanks, quay fittings and
works, fuel storage, and water receptacles.
Zogaj                 Water supply, sewage tanks, work platform and perimeter fencing.
Koplik                FMO office, water supply, sewage tanks, perimeter fencing.
Udenisht              FMO office, water supply, sewage tanks, electricity, delivery truck, perimeter fences.
Pogradec              Electricity, monitoring, control and surveillance equipment.
USS210,000 is appropriated in the project costs for additional investments to be identified during project
implementation.  These investments would include additional infrastructure, environmental improvements,
enhanced security and hygiene measures. It should be noted, however, no increase in the port's berthing capacity
- 41 -



will be carried out.
Subcomponent 2. Support to Coastal Zone Management (US$1.19 million)
This subcomponent would support the institutional strengthening of Fishery Management Organizations to
improve their management of fishing port facilities, and to promote self regulation as the key to sustainable marine
resource management. This subcomponent would comprise the following activities:
*   National Coordinator and Regional Promoters. Two national coordinators and initially six regional
promoters would be recruited to provide training and capacity building support to the FMOs throughout the
duration of the project.
* International Technical Assistance to FMOs. A team of international consultants, including the Chief
Technical Advisor (CTA), a Training Needs Assessment/Training Specialist, and Specialist Trainers would
provide technical assistance to the FMOs. In the first two years of the project, following establishment of the
FMOs, the technical assistance would focus on assessing the FMOs' training needs and preparing a training
plan. The initial training would include organizational management, management of fishing port facilities,
and introduction of the concept of community-based resource co-management (linked in Year 3 of the project
to the preparation of Fishery Management Plans). Resources would also be required for a study tour in the
Mediterranean region to provide FMOs experience from existing co-management regimes in other countries.
During Project Years 3 and 4, the technical assistance would focus on implementation of the fishery
management plans, and on strengthening local capacity in community-based resource co-management.
Approximately US$175,000 is allocated for the training costs, including study tours, to be identified during
project implementation.
* Preparation of Fishery Management Plans. A total of five man/months for a team of international consultants,
plus one man/month of input from the CTA, is envisaged for the third year of the project to assist in
developing a fishery management plan for each coastal and inland lake FMO. Preparation of these plans
would provide an opportunity to analyze the state of each fishery (by species, season, region, gear type used,
etc.), the biology of the most important species targeted in the fishery (life cycle, size, growth patterns, etc.),
and an assessment of the state of the stocks. Each plan would include a strategy for managing each fishery,
and an elaboration of the management tools required, including development of local fishing regulations, and
licensing and enforcement mechanisms. The plans would attempt to identify the marine areas that have
potential for marine based eco-tourism and therefore need protection, and identify areas where artificial reefs
could be established.
*   Marine Ecotourism Development. There is great interest among dive operators and divers in Europe in what
Albania may have to offer as a diving tourist destination. It is of the utmost importance that a survey be
carried out to assess the attractiveness of the Albanian coastal waters for diving tourism and to protect the
potentially attractive sites before they are spoiled by uncontrolled activities. The FMOs could play a valuable
role in this regard and earn an extra income on a non-extractive basis from diving tourism as the fishermen
would be the natural persons to transport divers to diving sites and to keep an eye on illegal activities in the
diving areas. Developing diving tourism in Albania could follow a phased approach, with each phase
depending upon the results of the previous phase:
Phase 1. Diving survey
Phase 2. Planning and implementation (by FMOs) of Marine Protected Areas (MPA's) as diving sites
Phase 3. Setting up of diving centers, training of local operators, and marketing
Phase 4. Enhancement of the MPA's by creating artificial reefs.
*   MCS Planning, Training and Pilot Demonstration Program. This activity would provide three man/months of
technical assistance, and equipment for a pilot MCS (Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance) demonstration
program. Proper MCS is an essential part of effective resource management, and therefore strengthening of
- 42 -



MCS capability complements the project's focus on resource co-management. There is currently almost no
MCS in the fisheries sector (for either the coastal or inland fisheries), and the Government has almost no
resources for policing the 12-mile coastal zone. An MCS report was prepared by FAO in 1994, which
proposed a number of costed options. These should be re-visited by the project, and an integrated approach
taken (for example in conjunction with current support being provided by the FAO Adria-med Program,
establishing a fishing vessel register database) to strengthen the MCS capacity of the Fisheries Directorate,
Fisheries Research Institute, local Fisheries Inspectors and the FMOs. The concept for a demonstration pilot
would be developed during preparation of the MCS plan, and could include, for example, an aerial
surveillance demonstration and/or links with a proposed network of coastal radar stations.
* Demonstration Of Alternative Fishing Technologies and Artificial Reefs. A small grant program is planned to
enhance fisheries resource management by the FMOs. This program would finance: (a) testing of alternative
fishing gear such as set nets, cages, and fish traps, and (b) the creation of artificial reefs, which would be
identified in the fishery management plans. It is intended that the artificial reefs are not to increase fisheries
but to provide protected diving sites. They do however have a positive influence on fish production, as they
constitute safe havens for fish to reproduce and hide.
Project Component 2 - US$2.13 million
Aquaculture Development
This component would mainly aim to: (a) restore the country's earlier capacity in fresh water aquaculture through
support to FMOs on inland reservoirs, (b) support the Government's program to restock Koran (salmo letnica) in
Lake Ohrid, and (c) support the Government's initiatives to explore the potential for aquaculture of new, high value
species through demonstration programs. In particular, the project would include
(a)     Support to restock carp in reservoirs to restore carp aquaculture;
(b)     Support to the Koran restocking program; and,
(c)    A pilot program to test the aquaculture of new marine and fresh water species such as tilapia and shrimp.
This component would be managed by the Aquaculture Department of the Fishery Research Institute.
Subcomponent 1. Support for Restocking Carp (US$0.31 million)
This program aims to restock carp in reservoirs to restore the country's previous capacity in carp aquaculture. It
would provide fishermen at large reservoirs with incentives to organize themselves, solicit contributions from each
other, and control their fishing activities. During the communist era, carp culture was quite popular, and was
carried out extensively using reservoirs and fish ponds in a form of cooperative farming. The country developed
some 800 hectares of fish ponds and associated hatchery facilities supporting carp aquaculture. However,
cooperative fish farming collapsed after the demise of the communist era, and few activities in carp aquaculture
have resumed. The main constraint to carp aquaculture is the absence of community-based organizations to
control fishing and maintain stocks. State-owned hatcheries have been privatized, but private operations have not
yet developed due to a lack of demand for carp fingerlings.
This subcomponent would support the restocking of carp in the large reservoirs where former employees of the
carp farming cooperatives are fishing (e.g., Ulza), and in irrigation reservoirs managed by WUAs. Prior to
restocking, fishermen would have to: (a) organize themselves into FMOs whose statutes must be approved by the
Department of Fisheries, (b) develop management plans that show licensed members and basic regulations, and (c)
provide financial contributions of 30 percent of the total fingerling costs. This program aims to benefit 400
ex-fishermen in two major reservoirs and 100 WUAs.
- 43 -



Subcomponent 2: Support for Restocking Koran in Lake Ohrid (US$0.67 million)
This subcomponent aims to support the Government's program to restock Koran in Lake Ohrid through
rehabilitation of the state-owned hatchery in Lin, and through various technical assistance programs.  In
combination with the technical assistance provided to the Pogradec FMO under Component 1, this subcomponent
aims to establish controls on fishing on the Albanian side of Lake Ohrid (which is shared with FYR Macedonia),
and enhance the sustainability of the Ohrid trout fishery. Ohrid trout (Salmo letnica), or koran in Albanian, is of
particular scientific interest as it is endemic to Lake Ohrid.
The subcomponent would include the following activities.
*   Rehabilitation of the Lin Hatchery. The rehabilitation works would include: (a) increasing the water supply
capacity of the spring, (b) rehabilitation of the incubation hall, (c) installation of breeding facilities.
*   Improving Management of the Restocking Facilities. Four man/months of technical assistance is envisaged to
help improve the management of the hatchery. Technical assistance would cover technical issues (hatching
and growing out), administrative functions (planning and monitoring), and environmental management.
*   Technical Program for a Restocking Impact Assessment. As stated above, continuing the release of Koran
from the hatcheries in both Albania and Macedonia may be critical to the future of this fishery. While it has
been estimated that these releases may account for as much as 90% of recruitment to the stock, there are no
studies that prove the cost effectiveness of stocking Lake Ohrid with Koran. This research program aims to
answer that question through tagging the fish that are released and assessing the proportion of tagged to
untagged fish caught.
*   Aquaculture Assessment. Using part of the rehabilitated hatchery, technical assistance would be provided for
conducting experimental research on the potential of Koran for intensive cultivation to market size.
Operation and maintenance costs are estimated at US$25,000 including staff, utilities, and material costs, and
would be covered by the Government and the local fishermen.
Subcomponent 3: Pilot Aquaculture Development (US$1.15 million)
This subcomponent would support the Government's efforts to explore Albania's potential in the aquaculture of
new marine and freshwater species. In particular, the project would provide support to the Fishery Research
Institute (FRI) to carry out the following pilot programs.
A. Tilapia
The project would support small-scale demonstrations of aquaculture of tilapia to test technical and financial
feasibility and to monitor ecological impacts. Tilapia (tilapia nilotica) is known to be a high-value freshwater
species that has already been introduced in Greece and Italy and is easy to culture. In addition, it seems that this
particular kind of tilapia cannot survive winter in Albania, and thus it would be very unlikely to cause ecological
problems. Under this subcomponent, a small hatchery would be developed at the Fishery Research Institute in
Tapiza (Durres) to raise tilapia fingerlings. Grow-out would be tested in cages installed at irrigation reservoirs
managed by water user associations (WUAs).
-44 -



B. Eel Study
The European eel (Anguilla anguilla) is a high value species that is widely distributed in the waters of Albania,
mainly in the lagoons and rivers along the Adriatic Sea. Eel have traditionally been caught and consumed in
Albania and are currently being fished commercially, mostly in lagoons. While eel aquaculture may be possible,
Albania does not have any reliable information on the availability of elvers.  Such information would be
fundamental for Albania to develop a future policy on the development of eel aquaculture, including regulations.
Under this project, a small-scale stock assessment would be carried out in two stages. First, an international
consultant would be contracted in November to organize a survey and train fishermen in the use of special catching
gear. Before the consultant's arrival, the Fisheries Research Institute would (a) gather all available information on
elvers so the consultant's mission would coincide with the arrival of the elvers, and (b) identify the fishermen who
would participate in the sampling. The consultant would then conduct one or two subsequent missions to catch
sample elvers when they arrive in the late winter/early spring of next year.
C. Exploration of High Value Marine Aquaculture
This subcomponent would assist the Government's initiatives to support mussel culture, and explore the potential
for high value marine products, such as shrimp. In particular, this subcomponent would: (a) provide equipment for
monitoring mussels, and (b) support the development of an aquaculture center at the abandoned state fish farms in
Kavaja in order to demonstrate the technical and financial viability of culturing high value species. Considering
the high risks involved in the development of aquaculture demonstrations, implementation would be carried out in
several phases in order to limit financial exposure.
*   Phase 1 (2002): The main purpose of this phase to ensure: (a) adequate capacity of the local staff, and (b)
adequate functioning of rehabilitated infrastructure. Rehabilitation of the four ponds would be carried out, and
test grow-out would be conducted in four ponds (2.4 hectares) using PLs to be purchased from the existing
Joint-Venture. Estimated cost for civil works in this phase is about US$180,000.
* Phase 11 (2003): Depending on the success of Phase I, and on confirmation of adequate and timely availability
of PLs, experiments would be carried out in six ponds (4.8 hectares) adopting different parameters in each
pond. Investments, estimated to cost US$65,000, would be carried out to improve power line and sea water
supply.
*   Phase III (2004 onwards): Depending on the outcome of Phase II, further experiments such as introduction of
more intensive technology would be carried out. An investment of approximately US$68,000 is tentatively
envisaged for improving overall infrastructure.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.25 million
Support for the Public Sector
Given that the public sector is institutionally weak, a key priority for this component is the preparation and
implementation of a Training Plan for the staff of both the Department of Fisheries and the FRI, including the
regionally based Fisheries Inspectors. The Training Plan would be prepared by the CTA and a TNA/Training
Specialist and would include the estimated costs of implementing a Training Program at both institutions. This
component has two subcomponents which, aside from specific local and international TA inputs, would also
benefit from TA inputs by the part-time international Chief Technical Advisor.
Subcomponent 1: Technical Assistance for the Department of Fisheries (US$0.21 million)
This subcomponent would include the following activities.
*   Legal Training and Assistance for Preparing Technical Documents to negotiate bilateral agreements with
neighboring countries. Legal training would be provided on the provisions of UNCLOS and associated
-45 -



international agreements (such as the Straddling Stocks Convention). This is important given the
multi-species nature of the demersal fish stocks in the Adriatic and the shared fish stocks in the inland lakes
that straddle the borders of Montenegro and Macedonia (Shkodra and Ohrid).
*   Legal Assistance to Support the Fisheries Directorate in reviewing, developing or amending various laws,
particularly in relation to establishing FMOs as distinct semi-private organizations that serve the public
interest, and in improving integrated coastal zone management and MCS.
*   Support to the Development of a Fisheries Management Information System (FMIS) for the sector. This would
target both government institutions and the FMOs/Fisheries Inspectors, and would incorporate as appropriate a
fishing vessel registration database and a landing data collection system. This work would also complement
the MCS planning and training proposed in Component 1 of the project. Some work in this area is already
being undertaken by the FAO, and the project would aim to build on this work and ensure compliance (even at
this early stage) with European Commission requirements, in view of the Government's policy to seek
accession to the European Union at the earliest opportunity.
Subcomponent 2: Technical Assistance for the Fishery Research Institute (US$0.04 million)
The Fisheries Research Institute is institutionally very weak and lacks a formal relationship with the Fisheries
Directorate. Increasingly it will need to be able to obtain its own funding, contribute to regional research projects
(it is already the responsible institute for much of Albania's contribution to the regional FAO-Adria-med
Program), and contribute to the co-management of fisheries resources by the FMOs. This subcomponent would
include the following activities.
* Preparation of a Business/Management Plan for the FRI. Under the project, two man/months of international
technical assistance and one man/month of local TA would be provided to develop a business plan for the FRI
which would include: (a) an institutional review and analysis of the FRI's current activities, including the
operation of various hatcheries; (b) development of an activity plan for each of the institution's key activities
and core competencies, including an assessment of the resources required and cash-flow projections for a 2-3
year period; and (c) preparation of an overall business strategy based on agreed objectives for the institute, and
taking into account govermment policy for such a research institution.
*   Renovation of Offices. A provisional budget of $23,000 would also be made available for the funding of minor
renovation works. This would help strengthen its administrative capacity at the head office and operational
capacity in the hatcheries.
Project Component 4 - US$0.78 million
Project Management
This component would provide support for project administration and implementation, including incremental
operation costs for a project management unit (PMU), and essential technical assistance for project implementation
(e.g., financial management, procurement, auditing, and coordination of the FMO and public sector training
program).
Project Component 5 - US$0.14 million
Refinancing PPF
This component would refinance a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for US$0.14 million.
- 46 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million   US $million   US $mfllion
Support to the Community-Based Co-Management of Fisheries     1.50          1.39         2.89
Aquaculture Development                                      0.63           1.25          1.88
Support to Department of Fisheries and Fisheries Research    0.09          0.13          0.22
Institute
Project Administration Support                               0.40           0.28          0.68
Repayment of the PPF                                         0.07           0.07          0.14
Total Baseline Cost                                           2.69          3.12          5.81
Physical Contingencies                                      0.31          0.24           0.55
Price Contingencies                                         0.17          0.14           0.31
Total Project Costsl                3.17          3.50          6.67
Total Financing Required                 3.17          3.50          6.67
Identifiable taxes and duties are O (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 6.66 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 84.07% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 47 -



Annex 4 Economic Analysis
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
As a major part of the project benefits are intangible and very difficult to compute, the project is not amenable to
conventional methods of estimating an economic rate or return (ERR). For example, the major part of the
proposed investment for fishing port rehabilitation would establish minimum navigational safety and hygiene
standards, rather than increase capacity; therefore, the incremental economic benefit resulting from the proposed
investment would be difficult to quantify. In addition, the absence of reliable landing data at the current fishing
ports makes it virtually impossible to compute quantitative ERR for this component.
Similarly, certain activities under Component 2 (Aquaculture Development) are for demonstrating the technical
and financial feasibility of high value aquaculture, and their economic benefit would be hard to estimate.
During project preparation, every effort was made to conduct economic assessments to the extent possible. The
following is a summary of the analysis.
A. Component 1 (Fisheries Management Development)
This component proposes the rehabilitation of eight fishing ports, and is estimated to cost approximately US$1.8
million in total. However, estimating a quantified economic rate of return would be difficult, as a major part of the
proposed investment is designed to fulfill minimum navigational safety and hygiene standards. The proposed
investment would include: (a) cleaning up the sites and wrecks (which will increase the operational capacity of the
fishing jetties), (b) hygiene facilities and water supply (which will decrease the chance of outbreaks of disease), (c)
storage and refueling facilities (which will increase operational efficiency for fishing boats), (d) lighting (to
increase navigational safety at night, and (e) essential quay works and fences (to demark areas designated for
fishing ports). These items, which are of small value individually, would provide very little measurable economic
benefit, and therefore, are not suitable to conventional economic analysis.
Efforts have been made instead to develop a management plan so as to ensure the financial affordability of
managing fishing ports for fishing communities. The management plan suggests that all the fishing ports can be
managed for approximately US$200 per boat per year on average, which is well within the affordability of the
fishing communities (see Annex 5 for details).
B. Component 2 (Aquaculture Development)
This component includes the following main activities: (a) restocking support for carp, (b) restocking program for
koran, and (c) demonstration programs (tilapia, shrimp).
(a) Restocking support program for carp. The major economic benefit of this activity is the restoration of
sustainable carp aquaculture. This activity is designed to give fishermen incentives to organize themselves, solicit
contributions from each other for restocking carp, control their fishing activities on their own, and establish a
financial principle for financing restocking. In addition, this activity would be extended to water user associations
(WUAs). There are about 650 irrigation reservoirs across the country that are managed by WUAs (groups of
farmers using irrigation facilities). WUAs would culture carp, and utilize the proceeds from sales of mature carp
for operation, maintenance, and small repairs of the irrigation facilities.
Estimating the economic return for this activity is very difficult, particularly for large reservoirs, as the final
economic return depends on a number of unpredictable factors such as: survival rate, growth rate, and catch rate.
For illustrative purposes, a model was developed to analyze the economic impact of carp aquaculture based on the
following assumptions.
*   Conversion factor of I was used to estimate the economic cost.
*   With the project, a fisherman would harvest about 600 kg. of carp a year starting from Year 3; the price at the
-48 -



landing site is estimated at USS3 per kg.
*   Without the project, a fishermen would be engaged in agricultural labor for 15 days a week at a daily fee of
USS 7.
*   Fifty (50) members would join the FMO, which will recruit three full time staff to control fishing activities.
1        2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9        10
Fingerings
Project             5,000    5,000
Contribution        5,000    5,000    10,000   10,000    10,000   10,000    10,000    10,000  10,000    10,000
Opportunity Cost
Fishermen                             63,000   63,000   63,000    63,000   63,000    63,000   63,000   63,000
FMO Management      3,780    3,780    3,780     3,780    3,780     3,780    3,780     3,780    3,780    3,780
Total Cost          13,780   13,780    76,780   76,780   76,780    76,780   76,780    76,780   76,780   76,780
Revenue                -        -     90,000    90,000   90,000    90,000   90,000    90,000   90,000   90,000
Cash Flow          (13,780)  (13,780)  13,220   13,220   13,220    13,220   13,220    13,220   13,220   13,220
The economic model mentioned above suggests that the program for carp aquaculture would yield an extremely
high economic rate of return (37.2 percent), even if the opportunity costs for fishermen and the future costs of
restocking are considered. The model also suggests that the program would create decent income opportunities,
albeit for a modest number of people, in areas where alternative income sources are limited.
(b) Restockinig program for Korani. This subcomponent mainly aims to: (i) increase the capacity of the Lin
hatchery through rehabilitation and minor improvements, and (ii) investigate the effectiveness of the current
restocking program through a tagging program. While these activities are crucial to sustaining the current stocks
of Koran in Lake Ohrid, it is very difficult to estimate the economic rate of return of the restocking activities. The
annual catch of Koran varies substantially year to year for unknown reasons, and the effectiveness of the restocking
program (i.e., the survival rate) is still unclear at present.
Nevertheless, every effort was made to estimate an indicative economic rate of return using the following
conservative assumptions.
*   With the project, the annual catch would be stable at the current level (80 tons per year), whereas without the
project it would decline from the current 80 tons per year to 30 tons per year by Project Year 10 (end of the
project life).
*   The price at the landing site (US$7.0 per kg) was used as the economic value of Ohrid trout.
*   Project benefits would materialize from Year 5, and the proposed investment would have an estimated IRR of
about 16 percent, which indicates that it would be of sufficient economic viability.
*    A conversion factor of .9 was applied to the local portion of the rehabilitation costs to estimate the economic
cost.  No conversion was made for operation costs, as the proportion of labor is low. Costs for technical
assistance and the tagging program were excluded from the analysis.
- 49 -



Year 1       Year 2-4      Year 7      Year 10
With Project
Cost
Investment Cost
Rehabilitation                 256,000            -
Opeation Cost                     25,000        25,000      25,000       25,000
Harvest                                                    490,000      490,000
wl Project Cost-Benefit        (281,000)       (25,000)    465,000     465,000
Without Project
Operation Cost                     5,000         5,000       5,000        5,000
Harvest                                                    349,872     211,096
wlo project Cost Benefit          (5,000)        (5,000)   344,872      206,096
Net Project Benefit             (276,000)      (20,000)    120,128      258,904
Based on the above-mentioned assumptions, an estimated IRR is about 23 percent, which indicates that the
proposed rehabilitation would be of sufficient economic viability. In addition, the investment would provide
intangible but not insubstantial ecological and social benefits, including preservation of the koran, the most
symbolic fish species for Albanians, and protection of Lake Ohrid's biodiversity. A more accurate economic rate of
return could be estimated after an investigation of the effectiveness of the current restocking program is carried out
under the project, and some technical adjustments on the restocking program are made (e.g., changing the target
growth) in order to increase the survival rate of fingerlings.
(c) Demonstration Program. While it is difficult to estimate the economic benefit of the demonstration program,
an indicative economic analysis was done based on some assumptions.
*    The tilapia program would have an economic internal rate of return of about 27.3 percent, as it would require
small incremental investment costs (US$20,000 for the Fishery Research Institute, which already has basic
infrastructure such as water supply), and minimal operation costs (US$1,800 for participating WUAs to recruit
feeders and purchase feed (locally available)).
1           2           3           4            5
Investment
Hatchery                 20,000.00
Particpating WUAs        20,000.00   20,000.00   20,000.00    20,000.00
Operation Cost
FRI                       6,000.00    6,000.00    6,000.00     6,000.00     6,000.00
Particpating WUAs         8,100.00   16,200.00   24,300.00    32,400.00    32,400.00
Revenue                   13,125.00   60,000.00   90,000.00    52,500.00    52,500.00
Net                       (40,975.00)  17,800.00  39,700.00    (5,900.00)   14,100.00
Assumptions:
*    The target production per WUA is about 1.0 ton, The estimated market price at the
site is $2.5 per kg;
*    Estimated economic cost per WUA is about $1,600, considering the opportunity cost
for the labor (US$1,300 per month);
*    No conversion was made to estimate the economic costs for the investment from
financial prices, as most of the investment is for equipment.
- 50 -



*   The shrimp demonstration programs have a negative economic rate of return on their own, since they are
designed for demonstration purposes and do not have sufficient scale to yield positive IRRs. For shrimp, the
demonstration program would start with about 1.7 hectares, which would not be sufficient to generate the
operating costs. Estimates suggest that there would be annual net operating costs of US$15,000 during project
implementation.
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A financial analysis was conducted for: (a) management of the fishing ports, and (b) aquaculture development
activities. This annex summarizes the outcome.
A. Management of Fishing Ports
A financial analysis was carried out for each fishing port to be rehabilitated and a three-year cash flow model was
developed for each FMO. FMOs will be designated to manage and operate fishing ports, so it is crucial to confirm
that FMO members can afford to maintain the fishing ports exclusively from their contributions.
In principle, the FMOs would generate income through: (a) membership subscriptions, (b) tariffs on the ports, (c)
activity levies, based on actual catches, (d) income from renting facilities (gear storage), and (e) other profits from
businesses they operate (e.g., chandlery). In developing a financial model for each FMO, the following assumptions
were made.
*   Each cash flow projection was made using estimates of current fishing activity, and made no allowance for any
increase in fishing activity. As such, these represent a basic, no-change position, and are thus a conservative
representation of cash flows.
*   Subscriptions would be charged to all licensed boat operators and active crews. The rates would be different
for boat operators and crews. In this analysis, the following indicative rates for membership were used: (a)
medium trawlers (US$200), (b) small trawlers (US$80), (c) in-shore boats (US$30), crews (US$8), and traders
(US$20).
*   For the sea ports, a harbor levy would be charged in two forms: (a) an annual moorage fee, and (b) a
per trip fee. Some, but not all, of the larger vessels are currently paying these charges. These charges
reflect the use of basic harbor facilities and services (quayside, berthing, lay-up, navigation facilities,
communication facilities). Since some of these facilities would continue to be provided by the main
port authorities, a proportion of the annual moorage fee would be allocated to them accordingly. The
per trip fee is considered a legitimate income for FMOs.
*   For the lake ports, there would be no equivalent moorage fee. There would be facilities use associated
with each of the FMO centers, but revenue towards the upkeep of these is assumed to be derived from
the combination of membership subscriptions and ad valorem charges on the value of landings made.
*   An additional activity / business charge would be levied as an ad valorem tax. An indicative charge of
0.25% of the value of landings would be made. This spreads the load of member contributions for
FMO and port upkeep and services according to the benefits derived from the fishery. It should be
levied at the same rate across the entire country. In theory, some distinction could be made between
fresh water and marine fisheries, but at the margins this is likely to complicate matters. Accordingly, it
is still proposed that such charges be made at the same rate for all fisheries.
*   Specific assumptions (e.g., number of members, required personnel, required maintenance) were also
made for each port to estimate site specific costs and revenues. The case of Shingjin, described below, is
given as an illustrative example (details are available in the project file).
Site Specific Assumptions
*   Full time Staff: I manager; 1 assistant manager; two laborers; 4 security guards; 1 office
cleaner.
* Harbor dues: 50% of the harbor dues collected are returned to the Port Authority.
* Maintenance: the FMO would be responsible for maintenance on the facilities under its
- 52 -



control; allowances were made for a minimum of equipment and materials for this purpose, but
in practice the FMO might be expected to apply additional resources for this task.
*    Rentals: the FMO would rent out 10 gear stores, and four small workshop premises.
*    Businesses: it is assumed that the FMO        would manage a chandlery business supplying nets,
fishing gear, and spare parts.
The estimated cost and revenue stream     is described in the following two tables (Tables 1 and 2).      These table
shows the positive cash flow each year, implying that with modest fees and membership contributions, the fishing
ports could be managed properly.
Table 1: Estimated Cost Stream for Shingjin
Costs stream           Y_     r 1                    I rer                        rear
I      Il l      i    fst q& 2id     Jid                         &       4d  Xs t     d _ A55
-   Variable
Personnel
manager            300    30C    30C   300   30C    300    300    30C   300    30(    301   30C
assistant          15     15C    15C   150   15C    150    15C    150    15C   15C    15G   15C
labourers (x2)     1I5    15     15    15    15     15C    15     1      15    15C    15C   15C
,security (x4)      40C    40C    40C   40l   40C    40C    40     40C   40C    40C   40    401
loffice deaner       3      3      3      ( 3C  3     3      3      31  3-       3C    31    31
water & electricity    2'     2      25    2'    2!     25     2      2!    2'     2      2!    2!
stationery             1      1      1     1     1      1      1      1     1      1      1     1
printing / copying     3      3      3     3(    31    3C      3(     3C     3(    3      31    3
__  __ telephone              1     1;      15    1     1!     15  l         1!     1'    1  1        1!
travel                 3      3      30    3     3      30     3            3      3      3     3
harbourdues to  #   1,10(  1,10   110   1,10C 1,10(  1,100   1,10(  1,10  1,10   1,10(  1,101  1,10
entertainment          2(     2C     2C    2(    20     20     20     2q    2(     20     2C    21
Fixed                      --           _
office furniture
I tables           _     l0(_bo_                    5(                          5t
_ _chairs             100                        55                         5C
_ cupboards          50                                                     I
safe               10(
_   =  _ notice-boards        5C                         22                         2C
other               5t                       5I                          5C
radio                 40                        IO                         IO
computer         I  1,5C    15C    150   15(   30(    150    15(    151   30C    15(    15(   15(
printer               20(                        5(                         5C
typewriter            20(                        22 
maintenance         3,00C                      1,00C                      1,00C
materials          30C    200    200   200   20C    200    200    20C   20C    20C    200   20C
7 Iar{c_                    8,31'i 2,61   261   2,61  4.10   2,6154 2611   21     4,1    2,611 2,61  2,6
- 53 -



Table 2: Estimated Revenue and Cash Flow
Revenue                      raYw 1                     a2 2wJ
rate/ qtr. Isi  2    JW     4*  Wfit           iV$' 4     & 1sf  t          w& . f 404t
_ membership             ======
owners      I                                                                                        I
-med.trawlers     50   80    80C    800   80C   80     801    80[    80      80     80     800    800
-small           2C    24C   24C    24(   2424        24      24    24       24C    240    240    240
trawlers
-inshore         7.5    6     6      6(    6     6      6      6      6       6      6      60     60
boats
I _ crew                  13E   13E   13E    13q   13E    131    13E    13E     13E    13E    136    136
traders                 4C    4( 44 41           44 4           4    4        4    4        4      4
_-_    _ s u p p o r t     5   1 6 I  1 6 C  16(   16C   16(    16(    16(    16C     16(   16(    160    160
harbour dues
med. trawlers    1    1,60C  1,60  1,60C  1,60  1,60  1,60   1,6q   1,60    1,60  1,60   1,60   1,60
_   _  _ small trawlers   41   48C    48(   48C   48(    48C    481    48(    48C    48C    48     481    480
inshoreboats      1    12C   12     12C   12    12(    12(     12    12      12     12     12     12
top fees              I
I I Imed. trawlers      :    72C   72q   72     72C   72     721    72(    72(     72(    72(    72(    720
small trawlers     1   36C   36           363   3      36     36(    36(     360    36(    36(    360
inshore boats   0.25    2E    28     2     28    28     21     28     2E      28     2t     2E     28
ad va/orem levy  0.250/  834   834    8     834   83     8       8      8      8      8      83     834
re tals
I gear stores (x         5C    5C     5   C 5      5     5              5(     5(     5(   _        50
10)
workshops (x      2    10    10      10  10C          10      10     10     10     10     1      100
4)
other income
IIIchandlery    10     1OC   1 10 (       100   10    10(     10i    100    10(    10     1      10
_ Jc _ ' im               44S 441                4P4             4m     4e      4      4&M 410 4
_MWXV                     44"       4214211,7              42A 24221?                         421f 421
_                  =~mhw  4^      M    4m    )15 417 f42         14A    14512 42                    4
Simnilar exercises were carried out for Durres, Vlora, Shingjin, and Saranda, for Zogaj and Koplik on Lake Shkodra,
and for three towns on Lake Ohrid, Udenisht, Lin, and Pogradec. Details are available in the project file.
- 54 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under the
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of
Consultants' Contract will be used. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development
Business of the UN in December 2001.
Procurement Responsibilities
The project will be implemented by the PMU, first established under the PHRD Grant to implement the project
preparation activities. The PMU is presently staffed with a director, an administrative assistant, a procurement
specialist, a financial specialist, an accountant, and two national technical experts, and is well equipped. On
December 21, 1999, the Government passed Decree No. 616 which made the PMU an autonomous agency. The
PMU is supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and headed by a Director who is familiar with the
Bank's procurement requirements. The director and the procurement specialist attended the procurement seminar
organized by the Bank in December 2000 in Tirana, which made them more familiar with WB procedures and
guidelines.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, technical services, works and consultant services. A detailed
procurement plan for these needs has been prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). During
project implementation, the procurement plan will be updated every six months.
The Project procurement arrangements are shown in Table A below.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods
(i)    International Shopping = Less than US$75,000 per contract.
(ii)   National Shopping = Less than US$30,000 per contract.
(iii)  NCB for Works = Contracts estimated to cost less than US$0.5 million equivalent per contract, may be
procured under contracts awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
Conditions for NCB
The following procedures will be followed:
(a) all tenders should be advertised in at least one local newspaper of general circulation;
(b) pre-qualification should be conducted for large or specialized works;
(c) minimum experience, technical and financial requirements should be stated clearly in the
pre-qualification documents or, in the case of post-qualification, in the bidding documents;
(d) Government-owned enterprises in Albania should be permitted to bid only if they are legally and
financially autonomous and operate under commercial law;
(e) the bidding period should not be less than 30 days from the date of publication of the Invitation To
- 55 -



Bid or the date of issuance of the bidding documents to the bidders, whichever is later;
(f) procuring entities should use the Bank's regional standard NCB bidding documents, which should be
satisfactory to the Bank prior to their issue to bidders;
(g) the opening of bids should follow immediately after the deadline for bid submission and bidders'
representatives should be permitted to attend;
(h) a single-envelope procedure should be used for the submission of bids;
(i) where pre-qualification has not been undertaken, post-qualification should be conducted only on the
lowest evaluated bidder; no bid should be rejected at the time of bid opening on qualification grounds;
(j) bidders who contract as a joint venture should be held jointly and severally liable;
(k) bidders should be required to submit bid and performance securities in an amount appropriate to the
estimated value of the contract and in a form acceptable to the Government;
(l) award of contract should be to the lowest evaluated, substantially responsive bidder who is determined
to be qualified to perform in accordance with pre-defined and pre-disclosed evaluation criteria; and
(m) contracts of long duration (more than 18 months) should contain appropriate price adjustment
provisions.
(vi)   Minor Works. Contracts estimated at less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three(3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
Consulting Services
Consultants' Services will be selected through the Quality and Cost Based method of Selection (QCBS). Such
contracts will be advertised in Development Business and in a national newspaper for expressions of interest, from
which a short list will be drawn. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000, short lists may be based
solely on national firms. Contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 each for audit design, supervision and
financial management, and support to the Public Sector as per the procurement plan, will be procured following
the Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications (CQ). Individual consultants contracts will be selected in
accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines. The services of FAO will be engaged on a sole-source basis,
earmarked at US$13,000 for organizing a seminar. This service is available only from FAO on a cost-effective
basis. All individual contracts will be advertised. The aggregate amounts for consultants services are shown in the
footnotes to Table A.
PMU staff will be procured under the individual selection method. A contract for each PMU staff would be annual
basis, subject to the renewal based on his/her performance. During the project preparation period, four key PMU
staff were selected, the project director, aquaculture specialist, procurement specialist, and financial controller, and
these staff will continue to work for the implementation of the project.
Training
A schedule for training activities will be prepared on a semi-annual basis by the PMU and submitted to IDA for no
objection. The first schedule should be submitted before implementation.
Incremental Operating Costs
The Loan will finance part of the incremental operations costs of the PMU to administer the project. These will be
incurred in accordance to an annual budget that the PMU will prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval
before any expenditures are incurred.
- 56 -



Prior Review Thresholds
(i)    First IS and NS contracts for goods; first NCB and MW contracts.
(ii)   All consultant contracts estimated to US$100,000 or more per contract - full review.
(iii)  All consultant contracts estimated to US$50,000 or more per contract - partial review.
(iv)   All consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or more per contract; and
(v)    Al] terms of reference
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to ex-post review, on a selective basis. One out of
five contracts for goods, works and consulting services will be subject to ex-post review. Supervision missions will
include a procurement specialist especially in the first year, whose main responsibility will be to conduct ex-post
reviews of the procurement process and documentation, and provide his or her findings.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): Goods, technical services and consulting services, PMU incremental
operating costs, and repayment to Project Preparation Advance.
Special account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the PMU will establish, maintain, and operate, under
conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA. The
maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account will be limited to US$ 0.5 million. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well
as other appropriate supporting documents.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Reimbursement of expenditures made from the Special Account may
be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for the following items:
*   Goods: contracts amounting to less than US$75,000 per contract.
*   Works: contracts amounting to less than US$500,000 per contract.
*   Consulting services-firms: contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract.
*   Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than US$25,000 per contract.
*   Training and operating costs: all contracts.
Financial Management
Project Accounting. The financial management system for the Fishery Project has been established and the PMU
will be fully in charge of all financial management aspects of the Project through the accounting office shared with
the Agriculture Services Project.
Since the Fishery Project's preparation phase had two sources of financing (PPF and PHRD Grant) that are
accounted under the accounting system adopted by the PMU, financial management arrangements for project
implementation are basically an upgrading/customization of these arrangements. Once the Credit is approved, the
financial management system for the preparation phase will be kept separate from the IDA FMS.
Overall the financial management arrangements for the preparation phase satisfies the Bank minimum financial
management requirements, with risks limited to general capacity shortcomings in the implementing agency that
may result in unintentional errors, omissions, miscalculations, late submissions of financial statements. Due to the
recent hiring of the accounting staff, some weakness in the accounting capacity might be noticed in the beginning
phase of the implementation of the project. For this reason, the training of the newly hired staff will be of great
importance.
Internal Controls System. A consulting firm assisted the accounting office for both the Agriculture Services and
- 57 -



the Fishery Projects in the establishment of the financial management systems for the two projects. In their
assignment, the consultants also assisted in the preparation of a comprehensive Financial Management Manual for
each project. These Manuals set out the financial management and internal controls policies and procedures and
are intended to guide staff and minimize the risk of errors and omissions, as well as delays in transactions,
recording and reporting. These written standards also clarify responsibilities, including level of authority, clear
control over assets, cash and bank accounts and timely and accurate financial reporting. In addition to the
Financial Management Manual, the PMU will have to follow the procedures set out in the Project Implementation
Manual and all PMU staff must become familiar with the Bank regulations (legal, disbursement, procurement,
financial management, etc.) applicable to their relevant area.
During the recent past some concerns have been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in the
region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. The risk that the
Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as acceptable by
introducing several measures, in principal the 'ring-fencing' of the Project through the establishment of the PMU,
segregation of duties within the PMU, requiring beneficiaries' representatives to certify the works done before
payments are made by the PMU and an independent yearly audit of project funds by an international audit firm,
acceptable to the Bank.
Staffing. The accounting office has two staff members, one in charge of accounting, planning and control, and the
other disbursement and cash matters. Considering that both have been recently hired, training has been arranged
by the Bank Financial Management Specialist and the Disbursement Assistant while hand-holding assistance on
the use of the accounting package has been given by the consultant.
Disbursement. Disbursement will occur under the SOE method. The PMU will be responsible of operating the
Special Account in the Bank of Albania and will use a separate Project Account for the Government contributions.
Audit Arrangements. Although the auditors will be appointed by the Ministry of Finance that carries out this
annual assignment as part of an overall agreement for the audit of the IDA-financed portfolio in Albania, the PMU
is responsible of delivering to the Bank, within six months of the closing of each fiscal year, the audited financial
statements. Since the PPF funds in FY00 have been disbursed under the Agricultural Services Project and the
PHRD Grant started to be disbursing only in FY01, auditor will be appointed starting from FY01. The annaul cost
of the audits will be covered by the Goverment of Albania.
Project Reporting.The PMU will prepare, and submit to the Bank, (i) quarterly reports and (ii) bi-annual Progress
Reports in March and September.
Financial Management Capacity Assessment. A Bank Financial Management Specialist has monitored the
establishment and implementation of the financial management system for both the Agricultural Services and the
Fishery Projects.
- 58 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                             1.96          0.47                      2.43
()            (1.52)        (0.37)          (         (1.89)
2. Goods                                                           1.40                      1.40
o)              ()          (1.28)          0         (1.28)
3. Services                                                        1.72                      1.72
()              ()          (1.72)          (         (1.72)
4. Incremental Operating                                           0.48          0.27        0.75
Costs
()__________________________  o) 0(0.35)  (0.00)      (0.35)
5. Training                                                        0.22                      0.22
o)              ()          (0.22)          0         (0.22)
6. Refinancing Project                                             0.14                      0.14
Preparation Advance                   ()              0           (0.14)          0         (0.14)
Total                             0.00            1.96          4.43          0.27        6.66
(0.00)          (1.52)         (4.08)       (0.00)      (5.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, works through the procedures
applicable to minor works, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management
office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the
project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Aggregated amounts, including the IDA financing, for other procurement methods are follows: (i) Consultants
Qualifications (USS 0.32million), (ii) Individual (US$ 1.39 million), (iii) Sole Source (US$0.01 million), (v)
National Shopping (US$ 0.49 million), (vi) International Shopping (US$0.91 million); and (vii) Minor Works
(US$0.47 million)
- 59 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.32    0.01    0.00     0.33
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.32)  (0.01)  (0.00)  (0.33)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    1.39    0.00     1.39
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.39)  (0.00)   (1.39)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    1.40    0.00     1.72
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.32)  (1.40)  (0.00)   (1.72)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Sole Source, Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 60 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                    Contracts Subject to
Threshold                Procurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category         (US$ millions)               Method                  (US$ millions)
1. Works                          <0.500                  NCB (First)                   0.14
<0.050                  MW (First)                    0.06
2. Goods                          <0.075                   IS (First)                   0.07
<0 030                   NS (First)                   0.03
3. Services                       or > 0.100              QCBS (All)                    0.00
< 0.100                     CQ                        0.10
<0.02                   Sole Source                  0.02
< 0.100                  Individuals                  0.70
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 1.12 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Recommendations of the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report to strengthen the capacity of the PMU
(i)    The PMU will be assisted by an international procurement expert in the early phases of implementation.
(ii)   Around the credit effectiveness period, a project launch workshop will be held for all government officials
involved in the project implementation, the PMU staff, and the beneficiaries from the Fisheries Management
Organizations.
(iii)  The PMU director and the procurement specialist shall receive procurement training in Turin to enhance
their knowledge of procurement. This training will be undertaken within six months of loan signature. They
should also attend seminars offered by the World Bank in the regional locations.
(iv)   Establish a computerized monitoring system within six months of loan effectiveness.
(v)    Immediately after Board approval, Bank staff will prepare a procurement book containing all procurement
related documents, including Standard Bidding Documents, both in hard and soft copies, and send it to the PMU.
The contents of the procurement book will be discussed during the project launch workshop.
(vi)   One year after loan effectiveness, the conduct of procurement under the project would be reviewed and
recommendations made if necessary, to improve the procurement process.
Country Procurement Assessment Report dated January Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions
2001                                            of the first year ready by Board?
Yes    No X
- 61 -



Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of  Estimated date of  indicated if there is  Domestic Preference  Domestic Preference
Project Launch     publication of General procurement subject to for Goods:  for Works, if
Workshop:          Procurement Notice: mandatory SPN in                     applicable:
September 2001     Development        Yes
November 2001                         Business:                             No
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ N o
Retroactive financing: No                                        Advance procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored
through progress reports and supervision missions. At least one supervision mission per year will include a
procurement specialist who will be responsible for updating the procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews.
His/her findings will be included in the supervision reports for monitoring their implementation.
Co-financing: None
Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project:
Naushad Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist, Ext. 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: A project officer in the Resident Mission
will be responsible for supervising project implementation and providing procurement support.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of six years.
The disbursement profile of the Project is based on experience gained during
the previous four Bank-funded projects within the agriculture sector in
Albania.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount In USSmillion          Financing Percentage
Works                                        1.75                          80%
Goods                                        1.16           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost and
85% local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants' Services and Training           1.42                         100%
Incremental Operating Cost                   0.60                          70%
Refinancing Project Preparation              0.14                         100%
Advance
Unallocated                                  0.56
Total Project Costs                          5.63
Total                                        5.63
- 63 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proect Schedule                                   plan.e                      Ac.a
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      17                          22
First Bank mission (identification)             09/011999                   09/01/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     02/15/2001                   07/15/2001
Negotiations                                    10/08/2001                   11/15/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/30/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Government of Albania, Project Preparation Unit
Preparation assistance:
The Government of Albania received a PHRD Grant and Project Preparation Facilility resources for the
preparation of the project.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Toru Konishi                      Economist
Ibrahim Hackaj                    Agriculture Specialist
Jan Post                          Marine Ecology Specialist
Roy Southworth                    Economist
Hermine De Soto                   Sociologist
Sandro Zanus Michiei              Financial Management Specialist
Naushad Khan                      Procurement Specialist
Ahmed Mohammed Jehani             Legal Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Disbursement
Sarah Leigh Hammill               Project Assistant
Ronald Zwaig                      Aquaculture Specialist (reviewer)
Robert A. Robelus                 Environmental Specialist (reviewer)
The following consultants worked on the project and contributed to the preparation;
Joseph Sciotino     Fishing Ports Engineer
Simon Diffey        Fishing Management Specialist
Daniel Lee          Aquaculture Specialist
Zoran Spirkovski    Aquaculture Specialist
Stephen Hodgson     Environmental Lawyer
- 64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
A draft final version of the Project Implementation Plan is available.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Fishing Port Engineering Assessment
C. Other
Fishing Port Component Review
Opportunities for Eel Aquaculture
Fishery Project Environmental Review
Fishery Development Project - Environmental Assessment
*Including electronic files
- 65 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
03-Jan-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                         Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P070078        2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                      0.00      8.10                            0.00       7.03       1.80      0.00
P055383        2001 SOC SERV DEVT                                      0.00     10.00                            0.00       9.99      0.00       0.00
P054736        2001 AG SERVICES                                        0.o0      9.90                            0.O0       9.91      0.12       0.00
P057182        2000 LEG/JUD REF                                        0.00      9.00                            0.00       7.70      2.95       0.00
P066491        2000 WS URG REHAB                                       0.00     10.00                            0.00       7.90      2.71       0.00
P068853        2000 EMG ROAD REPAIR                                    0.00     13.65                            0.00       7.19      4.44       1.44
P069079        2000 FIN SEC IBTA                                       0.00      6.50                            0.00       4.75      1.23       0.00
P069120        2000 EDUC REF                                           0.00     12.00                            0.00      10.44     -0.30       0.00
P069939        2000 PUB ADM REF                                        0.00      8.50                            0.00       7.60      1.60       0.00
P043178        1999 IRRIG& DRAIN II                                    0.00     24.00                            0.00      10.83     -1.01       0.00
P051309        1999 COMMUNITY WORKS                                    0.00      9.00                            0.00       0.88     -5.64       0,00
P051310        1999 MICROCREDIT                                        0.00     12.00                            0.00       6.21     -0.43       0.00
P045312        1998 HEALTH RECOVERY                                    0.00     17.00                            0.00      12.68      13.66      0.00
P054384        1998 RCVRY PROG TA                                      0.00      5.00                            0.00       0.46      0.48       0.54
P051602        1998 PRIV IND REC                                       0.00     10.25                            0.00       5.39      5.90       0.00
P040975        1998 LAND DEVT                                          0.00     10.00                            0.00       7.16      6.10       0.00
P040818        1998 DURRES PORT                                        0.00     16.99                            0.00       9.66      9.00       0.00
P034491        1996 POWER TRNSM & DIST                                 0.00     29.50                            4.49      11.92     20.46       0.00
P036060        1996 NATL ROADS                                         0.00     25.00                            0.00       1.48      3.11       0.00
P008271        1996 FORESTRY                                           0.00      8.00                            0.00       3.05      3.63       0.44
Total:        0.00     254.39                            4.49     142.22      69.82      2.41
- 66 -



ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
JAN-2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               AAP                            0.00   28.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.97     0.00    0.00
2000                NCBank                        0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Eurotech                   .09     0.00    0.00     0.00     .09    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF FEFAD Bank                 0.00    0.98    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.98     0.00    0.00
2001                Seament                      15.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        15.90   31.48     0.00    0.00      .09   11.95     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
1998               Patos Marinza                   30.00      0.00      0.00     50.00
2001               Patos Marinza In                 10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        40.00     0.00      0.00     50.00
- 67 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ALBANIA: PILOT FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   middle-
Albania      Asia   Income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        3.4       475      2.046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$1                              2,010     1.140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         ..      956      2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%J                                         1.1        0.1       1.0
Labor force (%)                                        1.5        0.6       1.3     GNI                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national povertv line)
Urban Dopulation (% of total Population)                42        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                        72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 five births)                24        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               8         ..       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    76        90        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    15         3         15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  107       100        114        -     Albania
Male                                                 106       101       116         -      Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               108        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                             ..      2.1        3.7       3.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                34.5     29.3       16.8      19.0
Exports of qoods and services/GDP            23.1     14.9       11.4      18.9                     Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                   35.0     21.0       -6.6      -2.6
Gross national savinqs/GDP                      ..    21.5        9.1      12.0
Current account balance/GDP                    ..     -4.6       -7.2      -7.0     Domestic 
Interest paymentsiGDP                           .      0.1        0.6       0.7     savings                      Investment
Total debttGDP                                  ..     16.6      26.5      30.4     s
Total debt service/exports                     ,,       1.9       3.7       3.4
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..      ..       18.1      19.5
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..       66.8      58.1
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    2000-04
(averaee annual orowth)
GDP                                  1.5      3.4      7.2        7.8       7.0         -     Albania
GDP per capita                      -0.6      2.9      6.1        6.7       6.4               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..    11.4     47.0        5.8       9.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  33.6     35.9       52.6      51.0
Industry                                     45.0     48.2       25.3      25.8     so
Manufacturinq                                 ..     41.8      11.9      11.6
Services                                     21.4     15.9       22.0      23.1      0
95   aa    97    98   99    00
Private consumption                          56.1     60.5       95.9      91.7    .so
General qovernment consumption                9.0     18.5       10.8      10.9                    GDI 9GDP
Imports of qoods and services                22.7     23.2       34.8      40.4                    GDI _         GDP
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aoriculture                                   1.9      6.1        4.0       5.0     60- 
Industry                                      2.1     -0.4       10.6      11.9     40
Manufacturina                                 ..     -6.6       6.0       5.0     20
Services                                     -0.4      4.6        0.1      10.0 '
Private consumption                            ..      4.6        8.7       1.9    -20     95    98   9    K      99   00
General oovernment consumption                  ..    -1.1       15.9       7.4    -40
Gross domestic investment                    -0.3     22.1       14.9      20.4            -     Exports    e*  Imports
Imports of aoods and services                  ..     11.2       11.3       6.5     -
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 68 -



Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic or,ces
(% chanrqe)                                                                       45
Consumer Drices                               ..       ..       0.4       0.1    30
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..    -0.5       2.5      -1.2    15
Government finance                                                                o1
(% of GDP, includes current erants)                                                       9    96     7    9B    99    0
Current revenue                               ..     46.8      21.3      22.4    .15
Current budqet balance                        ..      3.4      -3.9      -2.4           -     GOP deflator   ec
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -15.4     -11.4      -9.1
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          367      231       275      256     1,250
n.a.                                         ..       ..                        1,009
n.a.
Manufactures                                 ..       ..      174                750
Total imports (cif)                          354      381     1.121     1.070     500
Food
Fuel and enerqY                                                                  250
Capital goods                                ..       ..                          o - _
94   95   96   97   98   99  50
Export price index (1 995=100)                ..
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        ..        ..                 Exports      Etmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of qoods and services                378      144       594      706      o
Imports of coods and services                371      253     1.436     1.513
Resource balance                               7     -108      -842     -807
Net income                                     4       -3        68      107
Net current transfers                          .       15       510      439         I      'l       l     "
Current account balance                       16      -96      -264     -261     -10
Financinq items (net)                        -13     -105       347      372
Chanqes in net reserves                       -3      201       -83     -111     -15
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (US$ millions)        ..       ..       485      608
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)              ..      8.0     137.7     143.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandino and disbursed          ..      349       975     1.139
IBRD                                                  0         0        0                     G:37
IDA                                          ..       0       296      346
Total debt service                                     30 3      37                   F: 26. ./                  346
IBRD                                         .        0         0        0
I DA                                         ..       0         2        2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..        2       273      108
Official creditors                          ..        2       121      106
Private creditors                           ..       31        -4       -1                             -      c: 8
Foreiqn direct investment                   ..        0        51      141                              -
Portfolio equitv                                       0                               E. 348          D. 58
World Bank orooram
Commitments                                 ..        0       139       54      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..        0        81       64      B- IDA   0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..        0         0        0      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..       0        81       64
Interest pavments                           ..        0         2        2
Net transfers                               ..        0        80       62
Development Economics                                                                                              10/9101
- 69 -






IBRD 31551
FEDERAL REPUBLIC                            OF YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA:_
L:
E f-VA 41t.        ill- jc It
J
F*-DDEF?
,A -olv-
VLIKE<
f;
4E,lHF
ALBANIA                                                           mwDiTE
;*4
FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                  Di6EI?
A             r iEv. LNCHN-_ ',ITB                 F.sm K,,a
F Y R
MACEDONIA
EUUDIZIE
S.
C-I:rFIZl 'ENff;5                                                 r1RANIE
TiF LTjE
NAI iC.NAL                       PPOPC-SED SiTE FOR
P-10-:14c`                        AN AQUACULTURE
RESEARCH CENrER
t II:
OVI.-I
LUSHNjE
;.c            Pt:o ,P. Ai)
FIER
J.
A     cl r 1' a t 1' c                                                                               KC-RC F       DEv6LL
S e o
:t.                                                                !FF-FLErJF                      KCjL,2;NjE
L,r
J'
i.,F -                                                           LORE
F'E FE I
La.,                     G     R E E C E
EL. 11`J
C.kg
rjC.E
AUGU5T 2001



