E482
ALBANIA: FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
June 30, 2001
PREPARED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
PROJECT PREPARATION UNIT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
FILEF COPY



ALBANIA: FISHERY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Category B Environmental Assessment
PART I - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Introduction
Currently the Albanian fishery sector is almost completely unregulated, and both marine and freshwater fisheries are
in danger of being depleted by over-fishing and the use of destructive and unsustainable fishing methods. Ocean
demersal stocks are particularly vulnerable due to heavy near-shore trawling, and the Koran fish, endemic to Lake
Ohrid, is in danger of extinction if unlicensed fishing is left unchecked. Foreign vessels are fishing Albanian waters
without reprisals, contributing further to over-fishing and depletion of stocks. In addition, fishing ports have been
seriously neglected; leaving both grounds and waters polluted by solid waste, posing health and safety risks to
humans.
Existing Environmental Issues that Need to be Addressed by the Project
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Ocean Demersal Stocks. Fishermen in Albania are currently using old bottom
trawlers to catch demersal fish, and because their operations are unregulated, stocks have declined substantially in
recent years, resulting in smaller and smaller harvests. Fishermen sometimes invest in new trawling gear and
engines, wrongly believing that they can increase their catch using the same techniques with newer equipment. In
addition, recent increases in oil prices have limited the areas fished to those nearest the shore, which are used as
nursery grounds by demersal species. There are no controlled closed seasons for spawning, no minimum size of fish
allowed for catch, and no conservation of nursery areas. Illegal fishing by foreign vessels is also rampant,
contributing further to the depletion of stocks.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lagoon Fisheries. Lagoon fishing is popular in Albania, and reportedly some 500
families depend on lagoon fishing, mainly for eel and sea bass. However, during recent years lagoon fisheries have
declined significantly. This is due partly to illegal (unlicensed) fishing and partly to the use of explosives as a
method of fishing. Fishermen will be sensitized to the damage done by explosives and enforcement of regulations
will be addressed through the institutional strengthening component (FMAs) proposed under the project. Under the
project, FMAs would share the responsibility for the enforcement of fisheries regulations with the State.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lake Ohrid Koran. The rapid decline in the stock of the Lake Ohrid trout (Koran) is
also becoming a major environmental concern. Koran is endemic to the lake, and has a strong domestic market.
The decline is reportedly due partly to the large volume of illegal (unlicensed) fishing, and to less than successful
efforts to restock the lake. Therefore the project would support the Government's and the communities' efforts to
address these challenges through establishing FMAs, assisting FMAs in developing and enforcing fishing
regulations, rehabilitating the restocking facilities in Lin to intensify the restocking effort, and exploring the
financial and technical viability of aquaculture for Koran.
Project Objectives
The project has been designed to address these ecological and environmental issues. In summary, the key objectives
of the proposed project are to:
*  Improve the operation and management of fishing ports through rehabilitation and the introduction of
community-based fishermen's organizations (to be called Fishery Management Associations, or FMAs);
*  Introduce an effective institutional framework for community-driven co-management of marine resources by
involving FMAs and strengthening the public sector's capacity; and
*  Restore the country's previous capacity in aquaculture, and explore the potential for further development of
aquaculture, particularly for high value species.
1



Project Components
To achieve these objectives, the project will provide assistance through 3 components. Component 1 involves the
rehabilitation of fishing ports and provision of initial support to FMAs. Component 2 involves the provision of
support for restoring carp aquaculture and pilot programs on modem, high-value aquaculture. Component 3 will
provide policy and institutional support for the Department of Fisheries and Fishery Research Institute.
The Government is under-resourced and institutionally weak, and currently lacks the capacity to enforce regulations
and manage the sector. Close collaboration between the Government and fishing communities to develop the sector
is therefore essential. The Fishery Development Project intends to assist the Government with developing a coherent
sector strategy and planning, and supporting local fishing communities to manage port facilities and co-manage the
fish resources. Improved data collection and monitoring, control and surveillance will help to improve the
management of marine resources, and improved coordination by the state with regional organizations and
neighboring countries will also assist in improving regional marine resource and environmental management.
The Government has no institutional or regulatory framework, and no monitoring or enforcement capacity for
protecting and sustainably managing these demersal stocks. Therefore, the project would support the institutional
strengthening of local Fishery Management Organizations (FMAs), and make them partners with the Government in
co-managing fisheries resources. To develop the management capacity of FMAs, the project would raise
fishermen's awareness and knowledge of sustainable marine resource management, promote self regulation towards
sustainable marine resource management, and set up programs for collecting information regarding catches and
stocks of fisheries resources. The project would assist the FMAs in developing fishery management plans and local
fishing regulations on allowable catch, off-limits seasons and areas, minimum sizes, and allowable equipment, as
well as licensing and enforcement mechanisms.
Management of fishing port facilities is an important issue. Fishing ports were managed and owned by the fishing
cooperatives during the socialist regime; but since the demise of the socialist regime these ports have been
transferred to the respective port authorities. The fishing ports do not meet minimum sanitation and hygiene
standards, access to potable water is severely limited and huge piles of rubbish and wrecks hinder normal operations.
The Fisheries Development Project therefore aims to assist in the rehabilitation of a number of marine ports and
inland fish landing sites. Improved management of fishing port facilities will not only improve efficiency within the
fishery sector, but also will also potentially contribute to the future development of tourism along the coast.
Aquaculture is another area in which Albania has good potential, given its abundant land, climate, sufficient fresh
water, and geographic proximity to Western Europe. Indeed, the development of aquaculture was one of the
priorities of the socialist regime. However, since the demise of the socialist regime, these aquaculture cooperatives
have collapsed, facilities have been abandoned and fallen into disrepair, and no new activities have developed. With
a little assistance to organize the fishermen who used to work in these aquaculture cooperatives, it would be very
possible to restart fresh water aquaculture for domestic markets. In addition, many irrigation reservoirs have
recently been transferred to water user associations (WUAs), and aquaculture could be easily introduced to provide
additional revenue for WUAs and their members to be used for operation and maintenance of their own irrigation
facilities. Albania also has good potential in the marine aquaculture of high-value species such as shrimp and sea
bass, very possibly for international markets. This could provide a lucrative alternative to harvesting natural
fisheries, thereby easing the pressure on marine resources.
These project activities would contribute to the economically and environmentally sustainable development of
Albania's fishery and aquaculture sectors by significantly strengthening capacity in fisheries resource management,
the adoption of new fishing regulations, and by introducing alternative sources of income, such as the aquaculture of
new high-value species and marine-based tourism.
Environmental Impact of the Project and Mitigation Measures
The conceptualization of this fisheries development project was carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines and
has included site visits, field surveys and consultation with stakeholders and Government officials. The potential
2



environmental impact likely to be raised by the project have been assessed to be low given the nature and scale of
the proposed works, both within the sector of the proposed project and in terms of cross-cutting, multi-sectoral
aspects.
*  Over-exploitation of existing fisheries: The proposed project will not increase the fishing effort in existing
fisheries that are already heavily exploited. The specific goal of the project is to reverse a decade-old decline in
maintenance of the existing fisheries infrastructure.
*  Destruction of coastal areas: The proposed project sites of the port component (4 coastal and 6 lakeshore)
where physical intervention is proposed are all existing port/landing sites; However, 3 of the lakeshore sites are
located on Lake Ohrid, which is a UNESCO world heritage site.
*  Pollution and other direct or indirect impacts of infrastructure elements of the project: The proposed project
will provide replacement infrastructure inside existing ports and landings and aquaculture sites. Full mitigation
measures are included in the design of the physical infrastructure to deal with the impacts identified in the
scope.
The project has been assigned to Category B. The assessment concludes that the overall impact on the environment
resulting from the proposed development would be positive, due mainly to the fact that the project has been
designed to redress envirornmentally damaging activities. Moreover, the infrastructure is mostly going to upgrade
existing sites. Direct and indirect mitigation measures are built into the design of the physical infrastructure
components and through the institutional strengthening component of the project.
Safeguard Policies
The project is in compliance with the following Bank's safeguard policy.
Environmental Assessment (OPs 4.01). The environmental assessment has been prepared in compliance with the
OP 4.01. In addition, an Environmental Monitoring Plan has been prepared for each component. The EA and EMP
have been discussed at the public consultation, which took place in Tirana on June 15, 2001.
Natural Habitat (OP 4.04). The project does not aim to have any investment plans in the lagoons which are
considered of the precious natural habitats, such as Karavasta Lagoon (a Ramsar Site). Instead, the project would
provide the local fishermen with technical assistance to facilitate the organization of their own associations and
develop their own fishing regulations in order to increase sustainability of the fishing activities.
Forestry (OP 4.36). Not applicable
Pest Management (OP 4.09) Not applicable
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) Not applicable
Involuntary Settlement (OD 4.30) Not applicable to the project. The proposed sites for the fishing ports and landing
sites are state land, and no land appropriation is necessary.
Indigenous People (OD 4.20). Not applicable
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37). Not applicable
Projects in International Waters (OP. 7.50) The project plans to construct small landing sites in Lake Ohrid and
Lake Shkodra. Correspondingly, the Government plans a letter informing about the proposed investment plan to the
Government of FRY and the FYR Macedonia shortly.
Project in Disputed Areas (OP. 7.60) Not applicable
3



PART II - PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed project aims to carry out the following components:
1.     Support for Community-Based Co-Management of Fisheries
2.     Aquaculture Development
3.     Institutional Support for the Department of Fisheries and Fisheries Research Institute
4.     Project Administration.
PROJECT COMPONENT 1: SUPPORT FOR COMMUNITY-BASED CO-MANAGEMENT OF FISHERIES
This component would mainly support the establishment of Fishery Management Associations (FMAs) in the
development of community-based management of fishing ports and fishing grounds. Subcomponent 1 would
mainly focus on the physical rehabilitation and improvement of the current fishing port facilities. Subcomponent 2
mainly aims to provide technical support to FMAs to enable them to take over managerial responsibilities for fishing
ports, and later to develop and enforce fishing regulations. Detailed descriptions of these two subcomponents are
provided below.
Sub-component 1: Rehabilitation of Fishing Ports
Albania has fishing ports at four major coastal towns and on two of its inland lakes, which serve a total of about
1,000 fishing boats, mostly ocean trawlers and motorized skiffs. However, facilities at these ports are currently in
terrible condition and are not being managed at all. The port authorities under the Ministries of Privatization and
Transport are officially responsible for managing fishing ports, but they tend to focus on commercial and passenger
terminals, and pay little attention to the fishing terminals. Consequently, facilities are not properly maintained, and
do not even meet minimum sanitation and hygiene standards. Access to potable water is very limited, and huge
piles of rubbish and wrecks hinder normal operations. Needless to say, fishermen are not paying for operation and
maintenance of these facilities.
To fill this management vacuum, the project aims to engage fishing communities in managing fishing ports
separately from commercial ports. This sub-component would provide minor rehabilitation and make small
improvements to facilities at Albania's major coastal fishing ports of Durres, Vlora, Saranda, and Shingjin, and
inland fishing landing sites ports on Lake Shkodra and Lake Ohrid. This work will be done in order to (a) meet the
basic intemational standards of navigation safety and hygiene, and (b) support the FMAs' management of these
facilities. Rehabilitation of these ports and landing sites would reverse more than a decade of neglect in this sector
and restore fishermen's confidence in the Department of Fisheries. It would also provide an incentive for fishermen
to cooperate on managing and maintaining these facilities. And by removing accumulated solid waste and installing
sanitary and waste disposal facilities, it would also protect the environment from further pollution. In addition, it is
hoped that rehabilitated and well-maintained fishing ports can become key centers for marine-related tourism in the
future so that fishing communities can successfully diversify their activities.
Specifically, the project would clean up wreckage, repair damage to essential port facilities (e.g., quays and jetties),
and provide essential infrastructure such as water supply, toilets, and offices for FMAs, and small storage facilities.
Fences would be constructed to protect the fishing ports from the public and maintain hygiene standards. In Shiroka
(on Lake Shkodra), and Udenisht (on Lake Ohrid), small landing facilities would be established to help fishermen
land their harvests.
A. Port of Durres Fisheries Facility
General Description of the Site. The commercial Port of Durres is located 39 kilometers east of Tirana, situated on
a sandy coastline directly opposite the town of Durres. The fishing port facilities are located inside the commercial
port, between the ferry terminals and the floating dock. The ferry berths are currently under expansion eastwards,
towards the fisheries area, and studies indicate that the entire fisheries area is likely to be taken over by the Port
4



Authority for the expansion of ferry traffic. Construction of an alternative new fisheries port has been proposed,
constructed away from the existing port, but this is unlikely to happen within the next 2 years.
All existing buildings at the fishing port appear to be dilapidated from the outside, although inside they seem to be in
good repair. Each has its own frozen/chilled storage (12 x 6 x 3 meters high) and small 2-ton flake ice machines.
Water is not available inside the facility and is brought in by individual boat owners in jerry cans. Larger vessels
utilize road tankers.
Proposed Works. The current area occupied by the fisheries facilities would revert back to the commercial Port
Authority in about 2 to 3 years from the time of writing, and fishery activities will hopefully be relocated to a
proposed dedicated fishing port outside of the existing port. Thus, except for foundations and leveling works, a
major part of the capital investment in infrastructure must be able to be relocated. Proposed works include:
*   General clean-up of the area and setting up of a waste reception system in line with IMO recommendations;
*   Installation of portable containerized offices and hygiene facilities;
*   Rehabilitation of derelict areas into containerized portable lock-ups for fishing gear storage;
*   Minimum storage and mobile supply of potable water;
*   Minimum storage and mobile supply of fuel;
*   Installation of missing fittings on the jetties and missing boundary walls.
At the head of one of the jetties an oily water separator would be installed to handle bilge water from all vessels
operating out of the port of Durres. A billboard would also be erected at the entrance to the compound detailing the
port regulations, hygiene laws and fines levied for infringement. The boundary wall would be re-instated and a steel
gate would be installed at the entrance of the fisheries complex.
B. Vlora Fisheries Port
General Description of the Site. Vlora's commercial port lies in front of the town center, but the fishing port
complex, also known as Porto Nuovo, lies approximately 3 kilometers to the northeast. Porto Nuovo was intended
to service a nascent chemical industry (the site is littered with now derelict factories), and the fisheries complex was
to form part of this port. It was initiated prior to 1976 and halted in 1991 after the change in Government due to lack
of funds. When the project was abandoned, the inner breakwaters and one half of the main breakwater had been
completed, and three buildings-the engine workshop, the main office block, and the market hall-had been
completed in shell form. All buildings are still in shell form and need to be completely refurbished inside. There is
no water supply, as the water main stops at the derelict factories, and no lighting or fuel. All breakwater heads are
unmarked. Quay walls are practically all incomplete. A variety of construction debris litters the site and two wrecks
are located inside the inner basin. One of the wrecks is a piling barge that sunk at one end of the existing quay,
thereby negating its use. The main breakwater now stands half-complete with the navigation channel partly silted
up. Lack of maintenance dredging, navigation beacons, and channel marker buoys makes entry into the port an
arduous task for the larger vessels.
Proposed Works. The layout of the port would not be altered, but as the port basin is extensive, the project will
focus on one quayside only at the land-ward end of the fishing port. The project would refurbish and complete the
existing facilities within this area of the fishing port, upgrade the power supply, and install water and hygiene
facilities. The facility would first be cleaned up of all scrap items that currently litter the area, and the sunken piling
barge at the deep-water quay would be removed. Proposed works include:
*   General clean-up of the area (including wrecks) and setting up of a waste reception system in line with IMO
recommendations;
*   Rehabilitation of existing office/workshop block;
*   Conversion of existing out-building into hygiene facilities;
*   Minimum storage and mobile supply of potable water;
*   Minimum storage and mobile supply of fuel;
*   New transformer for the substation;
5



*  Navigation aids (channel markers and light towers);
*  Rehabilitation of a stretch of existing quay wall;
*  Installation of basic quayside lights for night operations;
*  Rehabilitation of permanent fencing of the fisheries compound.
C. Port of Saranda Fisheries Facility
General Description of the Site. The town of Saranda lies practically opposite the Greek Island of Corfu, close to
the Greek border with Albania. Saranda is the center of activity for a coastal area ranging from the town of Himara
to Butrinti. The entire stretch of coastline forms an important tourist destination for the burgeoning intemational
tourist market.
Like in Vlora, the fisheries complex does not lie inside the main commercial port but inside a cove approximately 1
kilometer west of the town center. This cove is shared with a small naval base that has since been shut down. The
naval base has its entry on one side of the cove and the fishing facility on the opposite end. Various derelict
warehouses are located behind the fisheries area which, together with a small jetty adjacent to the fisheries area,
belong to the commercial port authority. Apart from the private chill rooms around the fisheries area, no real
infrastructure exists. Quay space is non-existent and fish are now offloaded at the Port Authority's jetty. Vessels
then moor inside the cove as best as they can. A wreck at the end of the port authority's jetty makes it difficult to
offload anywhere else.
Proposed Works. The port at Saranda belongs to the commercial Ports Authority; however, part of the port has
been set aside for fisheries operations and the project would formalize the boundaries. A strip of land approximately
5 meters wide would be reclaimed along the quay, and approximately 300 square meters would be reclaimed below
the workshop. Starting from the edge of the Navy yard and proceeding towards the deepwater end, a new shallow-
draft marginal quay wall would be constructed. The new slipway would be located at the bend in the quay wall.
Proposed works include:
*  General clean-up of the area (including wrecks) and setting up of a waste reception system in line with IMO
recommendations;
*  Construction of a marginal quay and reclamation, including slipway;
*  Construction of office and hygiene facilities in masonry;
*  Minimum storage and quayside supply of potable water;
-  Minimum storage and quayside supply of fuel;
*  Installation of basic lights for night operations;
*  Permanent fencing of the fisheries compound.
D. Port of Shinglin Fisheries Facility
General Description of the Site. The commercial Port of Shingjin is situated near the town of Lezhe, 69 kilometers
north of Tirana. The commercial port is situated at the foot of a mountain range at the northem end of a natural bay.
The fisheries compound is located inside the commercial port, between the ferry jetty and the commercial jetty. The
fisheries area is currently derelict land, unpaved and fronting the sea in an ill-defined manner. A light timber-
decked jetty on steel piles juts out into the bay for approximately 120 meters. No services whatsoever are supplied
to the jetty. There are no boat servicing facilities, although a rubber-tired facility is currently under construction
under EU funding.
Proposed Works. The facility's layout would be altered by the construction of a new marginal quay and much
needed reclamation. A new building for three FMA offices, a meeting room, the fishermen's rest-bar, the hygiene
services, and a spare-parts outlet would be constructed at the entrance to the fisheries compound. Proposed works
include:
* General clean-up of the area and setting up of a waste reception system in line with IMO recommendations;
6



*   Construction of a marginal quay and reclamation;
*   Construction of offices, hygiene facilities in masonry on reclaimed area;
*   Installation of containerized portable fishing gear stores on reclaimed;
*   Minimum storage and supply of potable water;
*   Minimum storage and supply of fuel;
*   Installation of concrete sinkers to enable the vessels to moor stem-to;
*   Installation of basic lights for night operations;
*   Permanent fencing of the fisheries compound.
E. Lake Shkodra Fisheries Facility
General Description of the Site. The town of Shkodra lies at the southeastern tip of Lake Shkodra, at the
confluence of the Drini and Bunes Rivers. Albania shares the lakeshore with Montenegro. Fishing activities are
centered around the tiny villages of Zogaj and Koplik and around the area of Shiroka. Shiroka is recognized as the
center of activity. Zogaj is 6 kilometers from Shiroka, and Koplik is about 50 kilometers away, on the opposite side
of the lake. The coastline from Shiroka to Zogaj is dotted with pebble beaches and at certain points littoral drift is
clearly visible. None of these sites have any existing fisheries infrastructure except for a paved road.  All
establishments in the area draw potable water from shallow bore wells on the foreshore. However, electricity supply
appears to be stable, except for the winter months when it is normally rationed during cold spells. Proposed works
include:
*   Ground water supply at sites at Zogaj, Shiroka, and Koplik,;
e   Installation of a 1,5 Ton/day ice plant at Shiroka;
*   Construction of offices and hygiene facilities in masonry at Shiroka;
*   Supply of I refrigerated truck to be based at Shiroka for distribution of ice and ice fish around the lake;
e   Supply of HDPE fish boxes and cleaning equipment;
e   Supply of Monitoring, Control and Surveillance equipment (1 night vision scope, 1 searchlight, life jackets, and
uniforms).
F. Lake Ohrid Fisheries Facility
General Description of the Site. The town of Pogradec lies at the southern end of Lake Ohrid, which was declared
a cultural heritage site by UNESCO in 1980. As part of this project, the jetty at the western end of Pogradec, also
known as the GEF Jetty, has been designated as the center for enforcement of fishing regulations. The town of Lin
is the center for reproduction of Koran. The lakeshore is accessible from the paved road running along the shoreline
north of Pogradec. A rail line runs along part of the lakeshore but is intersected by crossings at most points. The
only infrastructure currently available to the Fisheries Department is the GEF jetty for use as a center for
monitoring, control and surveillance. The jetty lacks a power connection for nighttime operations and basic
comforts for the boat crews. Although an inboard powered vessel is available for use, the operation lacks all basic
equipment. The jetty deck itself also needs some strengthening/rehabilitating. The sites chosen for development are
located along the lakeshore, one at Udenisht, between the railway line and the shore line, and one at Lin. Proposed
works include:
*   Installation of insulated storage unit at Udenisht and Lin;
*   Handling/packing area and scales at Udenisht;
*   Installation of a 1,5 Ton/day ice plant at Udenisht;
*   Construction of offices and hygiene facilities in masonry at Udenisht and Lin
*   Step down transformers at Udenisht and the GEF jetty;
*   Supply of Monitoring, Control and Surveillance equipment (I night vision scope, I searchlight, life jackets,
uniforms) for the GEF jetty.
7



Sub-component 2: Technical Assistance to Fishery Management Organizations (FMAs)
Objectives
This sub-component aims to support the institutional strengthening of FMAs to improve their management of
fishing port facilities, and to promote the concept of resource co-management, particularly by developing and
enforcing sustainable fishing practices through local FMAs. This support would be provided for the duration of the
project.
Background and Justification
There is currently a serious lack of information on the state of marine and freshwater natural resources in Albania.
What little landing data is collected is not verified and may be grossly inaccurate. Indications from official data
(including FAO) suggest that total landings have decreased by some 80% from a traditional annual production of
some 14-17,000 tons in the late 1980s. A key question is whether this reduction in the recorded landings is due to
unreported catches and landings by the Albanian fleet and/or illegal fishing by foreign vessels or due to a lower level
of fishing effort by the Albanian fleet? It is difficult to assess from historical data what has happened to fishing
effort in recent years, but indications (from published data) are that the yield per fishermen have decreased
significantly in recent years, from 2.59 mt in 1990 to 0.68 mt in 1995. This suggests that there is serious unregulated
over-fishing of the country's aquatic resources. Recent official statistics are not available, but the sector reportedly
employs some 2,000 (full-time equivalent) fishermen.
The Department of the Fishery (DoF) within the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF) is institutionally very
weak, and has a permanent Head Office staff of only five people - one Director and two staff in each of the Fisheries
Resources Department and Fisheries Inspectorate. There is also a network of inspectors at a number of fish landing
sites/ports throughout the country, but again their resources are very limited (in most cases they have no mode of
transport and only limited means of communication with the DoF in Tirana). The Fisheries Research Institute (FRI)
based in Durres is also institutionally very weak, and despite the fact that it has a staff complement of 50, only 8
deal with fishery resource management. The limited fish landing data that is collected by the DoF in Tirana is not
automatically passed on to the FRI for analysis.
There is almost no effective Monitoring, Control and Surveillance (MCS) of the fisheries sector. The Government
has no resources for policing the Albanian 12-mile zone, and it is suspected that foreign vessels (primarily Italian)
are fishing unchecked within this zone. No benefits are accruing to the Albanian economy from this illegal activity,
and the MoAF appears to be powerless to stop it. Anecdotal evidence also suggests that there is increasing conflict
within the domestic fleet between the coastal fishermen (who use static gear) and the demersal trawling fishermen.
Illegal fishing is also a problem on a number of the inland lakes, in particular Lakes Ohrid and Shkodra.
Because of this near-total absence of fishery sector law enforcement (Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, and
associated fishery regulations), there is great concern over the potential depletion of Albania 's fisheries resources.
This includes both coastal and offshore marine fisheries, and inland freshwater lake fisheries. Consensus amongst
those advising the MOAF is that the future of the fisheries sector depends on a combination of (a) strengthening the
institutional capacity of the public sector, including fisheries policy and planning (see Component 3), and (b) the
involvement of fishing communities in co-managing these resources with the Government.
The principle of fisheries co-management is the sharing of responsibility and/or authority for managing fisheries
resources between the government and local resource users. Co-management represents a new approach to fisheries
management, and as such is an alternative to the traditional 'top-down' management approach (i.e., the government
makes all the decisions without consulting the resource users), which has failed in the past to resolve the problems
inherent in managing an open access fishery.
There are a number of fisheries associations already in existence in Albania typically centered geographically on a
fishing port or fishing village. Membership is voluntary, but as these associations have no fornal status under the
law, they do not have any substantive rights to co-manage their own aquatic resources. Currently there is little in the
way of a legal framework in place in Albania to support co-management arrangements. This issue has been
8



addressed through the proposed establishment of Fisheries Management Associations (FMAs), which will be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the improved fishing ports and landing sites, after these are
transferred to their control. The second main task of the FMAs will be to participate in the management of fisheries
resources in partnership with the Department of Fisheries at the MoAF.
FMAs will be community-based bodies that will operate on a non-profit basis and be controlled by its members. In
other words any surplus income will be retained within the FMA. The national network of FMAs will incorporate,
but not necessarily supercede, the existing fishermen's associations. In order to establish the FMAs and achieve the
two key objectives, a number of amendments and additions will have to be made to the Law 'On Fisheries and
Aquaculture' of 1994. First, a new chapter on FMAs would be introduced to provide for the establishment and
operation of FMAs. Secondly the law would be modified so as to provide for the introduction of a formal system of
co-management by conferring substantive rights and duties on the both Fisheries Directorate and the FMAs
regarding the co-management of Albania's fisheries resources. This work is currently on-going as part of the critical
path to project implementation.
Outputs and Key Activities
The specific (immediate) objective of this sub-component is to establish and institutionally strengthen a national
network of Fishery Management Associations (FMAs) to improve their management of fishing port facilities and to
promote self regulation, through community co-management, towards sustainable aquatic resource management.
The outputs from this sub-component would be:
1.     A total of 6 FMAs established, functioning and financially self-sustaining in order to manage fishing ports
and fishing grounds;
2.     Additional 5-7 FMAs established, functioning, and financially self-sustaining in order to manage marine
coastal lagoons and reservoirs
3.     All FMA staff trained to manage and undertake the roles of the organization
4.     FMA members trained in the principles and practice of co-management
5.     Improved aquatic resource management
To achieve these outputs, the following activities would be carried out under this sub-component, supported by the
provision of an international part-time CTA (Chief Technical Advisor) to provide technical assistance on the
establishment of FMAs and assist with project planning, monitoring and reporting, and the delivery of the training
program.
1. Provision of National Coordinators and Regional Promoters. The IDA-fumded Second Irrigation and
Drainage Rehabilitation Project has successfully used a network of national coordinators and regional promoters to
help establish and institutionally strengthen a national network of water-users associations. A similar model is
proposed to support the establishment and management of the FMAs.
Because of the diverse geographic coverage of the FMAs, and fundamental differences in the nature of marine
versus freshwater fisheries, it is proposed that the project will recruit and train 2 National Coordinators, both to be
based within the PMU. The national coordinators would be responsible for the overall monitoring and supervision of
technical support to the FMAs, including coordination of the FMA training program.
Regional Promoters (effectively Fisheries Extension Officers) would be based within each of the FMAs to provide a
range of extension and training services to the local fishing communities, and would also be responsible for the day-
to-day monitoring and follow-up on FMA operations and administration. They would also be expected to liaise
closely with the local Fisheries Inspectors, the MOA Fisheries Directorate (through the Project Management Unit,
PMU) and the FRI.
2. Provision of Training for FMA Staff and Members. The staff and members of the FMAs will require
considerable support through a training program if the FMAs are to fulfill their (initial) dual roles of management of
port facilities and resource co-management. A total of two man-months of international technical assistance are
9



envisaged to support the provision of training to the FMAs. A local Training Institute, selected through competitive
tender, will deliver the training program most if not all of which will be done in Albania.
In the early stages of Phase 1 of the project (i.e., in Year 1), following establishment of the FMAs, a Training
Specialist, supported by local TA, will be recruited to focus on assessing the training needs and preparation of a
training plan for the FMAs. The training needs are likely to include topics such as:
*  Assisting with the establishment and intemal organization of FMAs
*  Financial and general administration of FMAs
*  Port management
*  An introduction to the concepts of community-based fishery resource co-management
*  Fishery management planning and implementation of these plans, and
*  The role of MCS in fisheries management.
The CTA will, over the duration of the project, assist the selected Training Institute and PMU with preparing a
standardized training program for each FMA, and to provide monitoring and evaluation inputs. Training inputs will
include the provision of a regional study tour within the Mediterranean to experience existing fisheries co-
management regimes already known to function in France and Spain.
3. Preparation of Fishery Management Plans. A port management-planning consultancy in March-April 2001
has prepared port management plans for each of the six sites where the FDP is proposing to develop and/or
rehabilitate local fisheries related infrastructure. These plans will help support one of the primary functions of the
FMAs. The other primary function of the FMAs - co-management of resources - will require an estimated six man-
months of international technical assistance, plus local consultancy support, during Phase I to develop a fishery
management plan for each coastal and inland lake FMA. Each plan would include a strategy for management of
each fishery, and an elaboration of the management tools required, including development of local fishing
regulations, licensing and enforcement mechanisms. Preparation of a uniform portfolio of plans would incorporate
the following information:
*  An analysis the state of each fishery
*  A review of the biology of the most important species targeted in the fishery
*  An assessment of state of the discrete fish stocks
*  Development of a strategy for fisheries management
*  Fishery management options and plan (including cost implications of co-management, enforcement regime etc.)
These plans would provide an opportunity to strengthen the capacity of the FRI and integrate the latest findings from
current regional fisheries research projects within the marine fishery (in particular work currently being undertaken
through FAO). Implementation of these plans will be supported by the project during Phase 2.
4. Marine Eco-tourism Development. The Mediterranean Sea is a very important diving destination for the
rapidly growing diving industry in Europe. Albania however, having been closed to diving until recently may still
harbor diving sites that offer a glimpse of a relatively intact Mediterranean ecosystem, possibly in combination with
unknown archaeological sites and ship- and air plane wrecks from the second world war. There is great interest
among dive operators and divers in Europe in what Albania may have to offer in this regard. Therefore it is of the
utmost importance that a survey be carried out to assess the attractiveness of the Albanian coastal waters for diving
tourism and to protect the potentially attractive sites before they are spoiled by uncontrolled activities. The FMAs
could play a valuable role in this regard and earn an extra income on a non-extractive basis from diving tourism as
the fishermen would be the natural persons to transport divers to the diving sites and to keep an eye on illegal
activities in the diving areas. In most popular diving sites, fishermen earn much more money from diving tourism
(and protecting the dive sites from fishing) than from exploiting those areas for fishing.
The project will initially assist with a survey of the Albanian coast to assess its potential for diving tourism, and
would aim to determine its relative attractiveness compared with other destinations in the region. A diving operator
from the region (Corfu) together with a Marine Biodiversity Specialist will undertake the survey, supported by 2
10



Albanian divers and use of a locally chartered fishing vessel. An important component of the survey would be the
documentation by under water video and photography that could later also be used for promotion purposes.
5. Fishing Gear Technology & Marine Habitat Enhancement Pilot Demonstration Project. A small grant aid
program will be made available to support and enhance fisheries co-management through the use of more
appropriate and selective fishing gear. This program would finance: (a) the testing of altemative fishing gear such
as set-nets, cages, and fish traps, primarily within the coastal lagoon and inland lake fisheries, and (b) the creation of
artificial reefs within the coastal marine fishery. Development of this program will be an output from the preparation
of the Fishery Management Plans.
6. MCS Planning, Training and Pilot Demonstration Program. Proper Monitoring, Control and Surveillance
(MCS) is an essential element of effective fisheries resource mnanagement. Strengthening of MCS capacity across
the sector therefore complements the project's overall development objective of sustainable resource exploitation
and improved resource co-management. MCS fundamentally involves the implementation of a plan or strategy,
effected in line with an agreed fisheries policy and development plan. It is therefore necessary for this cluster of
project activities to be phased appropriately, following on from the preparation of the Fishery Management Plans
and in line with proposed assistance to the public sector in developing a sector policy and strategy.
There is currently almost no MCS within the fisheries sector (either the coastal or inland fishery), and the
govermment has almost no resources for policing the 12-mile coastal zone, which in the Mediterranean Sea is the
extent to which member coastal states currently legally have jurisdiction. Beyond the 12-mile limit, fish stocks are
therefore shared resources. The case for improvements to MCS are made even greater by the fact that anecdotal
evidence suggests that there is increasing conflict within the local fleet between the coastal fishery (using static gear)
and the demersal trawl fishery. This is in part because of high fuel costs (and the use of old inefficient fishing
vessels and fishing equipment), which means that in order to reduce operating costs, the demersal trawl fishing fleet
is not fishing as far offshore as it might (or should).
The case for improved MCS is equally strong on the inland lake fishery, where illegal fishing is a problem, in
particular Lake Ohrid and lake Shkodra. The pre-appraisal mission has however been informed by the EU Phare
Office in Tirana of one inland lake (name unknown) where enforcement has been a success in the past year, and all
formerly illegal-fishing activity is now legal.
A MCS consultancy report was prepared by FAO in 1994, and the report proposed a number of costed options.
These included the use of inspectors at a number of ports and inland fish landing sites, deployment of fisheries
observers, coastal surveillance (using a fisheries protection vessel), the establishment of a network of coastal radar
stations, the use of air surveillance and electronic (satellite) surveillance. These options will be re-visited by the
project, and an integrated approach taken (for example in conjunction with planned support from FAO to establish a
fishing vessel register database) to strengthen the MCS capacity of the Fisheries Directorate, Fisheries Research
Institute, local Port Fisheries Inspectors and the FMAs. The most obvious and easiest option to develop is to
strengthen the position of the Port Fishery Inspectors (and those performing similar functions in the inland fishery).
Careful consideration needs to be given in the project as to how this can be done effectively, particularly linked with
the establishment of FMAs - vessel owners and fishermen would for example have to be convinced of the merits of
'self-policing.'
Technical assistance will be provided to assess the options for realistically improving MCS capacity within the
country, preparing an MCS plan, and providing some training, particularly to the Fishery Inspectors. A pilot MCS
demonstration program will also be implemented under this project, the concept of which would be developed as an
output from preparation of an MCS plan, but could for example include an aerial surveillance demonstration and/or
links with a proposed network of coastal radar stations.
11



PROJECT COMPONENT 2: AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENT
This component would support the Government's efforts to re-develop the aquaculture sector in Albania. In the
1970s, Albania developed a large number of hatchery facilities (with assistance from China), mainly targeted for
carp species. In addition, carp culture in the country's 650 irrigation reservoirs was very popular during the socialist
regime. However, aquaculture virtually ceased altogether after the demise of the communist regime, and very few
activities have resumed, due mainly to the absence of clear user right to these reservoirs, and the collapse of fishery
cooperatives at the large reservoirs. Given the country's geographic location and access to both marine and fresh
water, Albania has the potential to re-develop aquaculture and, through exports and increased domestic
consumption, make it an important contributor to economic development and the alleviation of rural poverty.
The Aquaculture Development Component would aim to restore the original capacity of fresh water aquaculture
through support to FMAs at inland reservoirs, support the Government's restocking programs initiatives to explore
the potential for the aquaculture of new, high value species through demonstration programs. In particular, the
project would include a small grant program to FMAs to support the resumption of carp aquaculture, support to the
Koran restocking program on Lake Ohrid, and a pilot program to test the aquaculture of species such as tilapia,
shrimp, and sea-bass and sea-bream. The Aquaculture Department of the Fishery Research Institute would manage
this component.
Sub-component 1: Carp Culture
This sub-component would provide small matching grants to groups of inland lake/reservoir FMAs and participating
Water User Associations (WUAs) as start-up capital for purchasing carp fingerlings, restocking reservoirs, and
resuming aquaculture activities. Under the communist era, carp culture was quite popular, and it was carried out
extensively, using reservoirs and fishponds. Albania has developed some 800 hectares oi fishponds and associated
hatchery facilities mainly for the carp culture; however, after the demise of the communist regime, the carp
aquaculture has collapsed, and to date little activities have been resumed. The main constraint to carp aquaculture is
the absence of community-based organizations to control fishing activities and maintain the fish stock. State-owned
hatcheries have been privatized; however, private business activities have not yet developed, as the demand for the
carp fingerlings has not increased.
Under this subcomponent, small grants would be provided to FMAs/WUAs for two to three years, when the
fingerlings could be harvested. About 10 FMAs will receive a grant of up to US$5,000 per year for three years. In
order to receive a grant, fishermen will have to organize themselves into a FMA whose statute shall be approved by
the Department of Fisheries, develop a management plan which shows licensed members and basic regulations, and
annual matching financial contribution of 30 percent of the total fingering cost. During the first year, the grant
program would be tried out in Kukes, Trapoje, and Elbasan, and will be expanded into other areas later. This
component would then eventually develop FMAs that will be engaged in financially sustainable carp culture, and
also provide post-privatization support for the emerging private business in hatcheries.
The small grant program would also be extended to WUAs. In order to eligible for the grant program, WUAs has to
demonstrate the satisfactory financial and technical capacity through financial and technical audits to be carried out
by the on-going irrigation rehabilitation project. Selected WUAs will then receive a grant up to US$2,000 per year
for three years. Four WUAs in Kavaja and Lushnje have been identified as first year implementation. Eventually, it
is expected that 20 WUAs will receive this grant eventually.
The selected WUAs and FMAs will purchase carp fingerings from the private hatcheries through competition.
Approximately 20 private hatcheries have recently begun operating, and this grant program would also stimulate the
emerging private sector.
12



Implementation Procedures
This component shall be implemented in a demand-driven approach. In particular, the grant would be provided to
the FMAs and WUAs on a request basis. In order to participate in the project, FMAs and WUAs should complete
the following steps.
Fishery Management Associations
*  Preparation of an initial proposal. Initiating members have to prepare a proposal showing: (a) commitment to
develop FMAs, (b) target number of the members at the FMA, (c) proposed sites for aquaculture, (d) target
numbers and species for released fingerings, and (e) proposed financial arrangement (contributions from
members and grants). At least 50 percent of the initiating members shall be ex-state aquaculture farm
employees or full time workers for carp aquaculture.
* Review and Approval of the Proposal. PMU will review and approve the request in conjunction with the
Department of Fisheries. On approval, the PMU will advertise the organization of the FMAs through bulletin
boards of the communes, and request an application to participate in the FMAs.
* Establishment of the FMAs. Once all initial members have been identified, a general assembly will be held to
elect the Board Members. The Board member will then elect the representatives of the FMAs, including their
chairmen and technical staff. FMAs will then be officially registered, and receive licenses for aquaculture from
DoF.
* Contributions. The Chairman of each FMA will collect required contributions for this sub-component. The
contributions will be kept in an account of the FMA. The Grant would be provided to the account directly once
the due amount is collected.
* Purchase of Fingerings. Each FMA will purchase carp fingerings through national shopping under the
supervision of the PMU.
*  Reporting. After each year, each FMA will prepare a brief report showing: (a) financial summary of the FMA,
(b) amount of purchased fingerings, and (c) record of output (harvest).
Water Users Associations
* Submission of an Application. WUAs who are interested in participating in the program would prepare a
proposal showing: (a) proposed sites for carp aquaculture, (b) proposed financial arrangement, and (c) target
species and numbers for fingerings, and (d) modalities through which the WUAs will be involved in
aquaculture (i.e. concessions or direct participation).
* Review and Approval of the Proposal. PMU will review and approve the request in conjunction with the
Department of Fisheries and Irrigation PMU. Irrigation PMU will provide information regarding overall
capacity of the WUAs and make suggestions on whether the WUAs have adequate capacity or not. On
approval, the WUAs will collect contributions from their members.
* Purchase of Fingerings. Each WUA will purchase carp fingerings through national shopping under the
supervision of the PMU.
* Reporting. After each year, each WUA will prepare a brief report showing: (a) financial summary of the WUA,
(b) amount of purchased fingerings, and (c) record of output (harvest), or outcome of concession.
Sub-component 2: Support for Restocking Lake Ohrid Trout
Introduction
This sub-component aims to support the Government's program to restock Koran in Lake Ohrid through
rehabilitation of the state-owned hatchery in Lin (managed by the Fisheries Research Institute) and various technical
assistance programs. Together with the technical assistance to the Pogradec Fisheries Management Association
(FMA) under Component 1, the project aims to control fishing on the Albanian side of Lake Ohrid, and ensure
sustainability of Koran fishing.
Koran has a strong domestic market, but the stock has declined drastically over the last 10 years. While destruction
of near shore spawning areas and pollution from Pogradec are partly to blame, it is certain that uncontrolled fishing
in Albania is the major cause. Koran is caught most easily during their spawning season (December-March), when
13



the fish are in shallow water. Of course this is precisely the time that Koran fishing should be prohibited. To
maintain a fish population, female fish should spawn at least once during their lifetime.
However, for socio-economic reasons it is impossible to prohibit fishing during the spawning season. Thus for the
short term, the restocking of Koran by the hatcheries in both Albania and Macedonia are critical to the future of this
fishery. The hatcheries in both countries rely on female Koran caught during the spawning season for their supply
of eggs. After being caught, the females are stripped of ripe eggs that are subsequently fertilized artificially with
milt from males caught at the same time. The fertilized eggs are then taken to the hatchery where they are hatched
and raised until the young are old enough to be released into the lake. The underlying idea of the program is not to
let any eggs contained in females that are caught for consumption go to waste.
There are two hatcheries that are involved in this activity-one in the town of Ohrid on the Macedonian side of the
lake, and one in the town of Lin (near Pogradec) on the Albanian side. The hatchery in Ohrid works very well and
produces millions of fingerlings each year. The usual risk of disease seems to be absent at this hatchery. This is
most probably due to their abundant supply of spring water of excellent quality, and maintaining the right
temperature for the water that is continuously flushed through the fish tanks. Good quality pelleted food is
imported, and is readily eaten by the Koran.
In order to determine the cost effectiveness of the hatch-and-release program, a tagging program would be
implemented.
Proposed Site and Description of the Hatchery Facilities
The hatchery in Lin (west of the city of Pogradec) still functions, but on a much more limited scale due to serious
deterioration of the facilities. However, the site is eminently suitable for a Koran hatchery, in particular because it
has an abundant and reliable source of spring water of excellent quality and occupies a stretch of land that slopes
gently down to Lake Ohrid, thus providing easy and natural drainage. The project aims to rehabilitate the hatchery to
such an extent that one million fingerlings can be produced per year.
At present there is a hatchery building, an open ditch for water supply, and several concrete grow-out ponds of
different sizes and in various stages of disrepair. However, the basic structures can be used in the new design of the
hatchery. Inside the hatchery there are still a number of tanks that successfully hatch Koran, which are subsequently
grown out in concrete tanks outside. There are still available personnel with experience in running the facilities.
Institutional Arrangements
This component would be carried out by the Fisheries Research Institute under the supenrision of the MoAF and the
PMU. Close cooperation should be established with the Pogradec Fisheries Management Organization, as they
would be responsible for notifying the hatchery whenever ripe Koran are caught so the hatchery can send out a
technician to strip and fertilize the eggs. In fact, the hatchery should issue licenses for Koran fishing in line with its
capacity to grow out the eggs of caught females. This is the system employed in Macedonia and eventually a single
hatch and release program should be run jointly by Albania and Macedonia.
Outreach to Fishermen
Coordination with Ohrid fishermen is crucial to the success of the restocking program, since they would have to
supply the spawners. They would have to be equipped with plastic containers to keep the fish alive after they are
caught, as well as communication equipment to notify the hatchery to send out technicians to collect and fertilize the
eggs. The hatchery also needs a vehicle for transport of the eggs back to the hatchery.
14



Estimated Costs
Rehabilitation of the Hatchery. The rehabilitation works would include: (a) increasing the water supply from the
spring; (b) rehabilitation of the hatchery building; (c) rehabilitation of the outdoor grow-out tanks; (d) installation of
breeding tanks and other equipment in the hatchery; and (e) construction of a wetland for waste water treatment.
Improving the Management of Restocking Facilities. Four man/months of technical assistance is envisaged to
help improve the current management of the hatchery. The technical assistance will cover technical issues (hatching
and growing out), administrative functions (planning and monitoring), and environmental management.
Technical Program for a Restocking Impact Assessment. As stated above, continuing the release of Koran from
the hatcheries in both Albania and Macedonia is critical to the future of this fishery. While it has been estimated
that these releases may account for as much as 90% of recruitment to the stock (Ohrid Hydro-biological Station),
there are no studies that prove the cost effectiveness of re-stocking Lake Ohrid with Koran. A research program in
which the fish that are released are tagged could answer this question, and the proportion of tagged to untagged fish
caught is determined when the released fish have grown to marketable size. Tags, tag screening equipment,
demonstration materials, and technical assistance would be needed for tagging, releasing, and later screening the
Koran that are caught.
Aquaculture Assessment. Using part of the rehabilitated hatchery, technical assistance would be provided for
conducting experimental research on the potential of Koran for intensive cultivation to market size.
Sub-component 3. Pilot Aquaculture Development
This subcomponent would support the Government's initiative to explore the potential in the aquaculture of new
marine and freshwater species. In particular, the project would provide support to the Fishery Research Institute
(FRI) to carry out pilot programs for aquaculture of shrimp, eel, and tilapia.
A. Shrimp Aquaculture
Introduction
Under the pilot aquaculture sub-component, the project would support the establishment of demonstration
aquaculture facilities for shrimp on the abandoned carp farms in Kavaja that were formerly operated by the state.
These facilities would demonstrate the technical and financial viability of shrimp farming using mainly semi-
intensive methods. The objective would be to stimulate renewed commercial interest in shrimp farming.
Shrimp farming in the Mediterranean region has had only limited success so far. This is largely due to the short
growing season of six months, which restricts output to one crop per year. Currently the only viable candidate for
cultivation is Marsupeneusjaponicus. This species tolerates the cooler temperatures of the Mediterranean and finds
a ready local mnarket because of its sirmilarity with the locally caught shrimp Melicertus kerathurus. Introduction of
a faster growing cold-tolerant species for aquaculture, such as Fenneropeneus chinensis or Litopeneus stylirostris,
could potentially boost productivity, but would pose ecological risks, and would require unequivocal assurance of
the disease-free status of stocks. Marsupeneus japonicus, although not native, has extended its range to the
Mediterranean via the Suez Canal.
In 1994, a joint venture between the Albanian Government and an Italian private company began the culture of
Marsupeneus japonicus using the abandoned carp farm facilities at Kavaja. The company's extensive culture
methods have resulted in moderate success, though in recent years the incidence of disease and theft have increased.
Still, there are significant opportunities to expand shrimp farmning in Albania and increase profitability by using
technology appropriate to Albania's conditions. Albania has advantages over other Mediterranean countries for
shrimp farming, such as cheaper land and cheaper construction costs. Cheaper labor would only a minor advantage
because shrimp farming is capital intensive rather than labor intensive. On the other hand, Albania does not have
experience in other shrimp farming or in any other type of marine or brackish water pond aquaculture.
15



Consequently, any prospective Albanian investor would need to pay (initially at least) for expensive foreign
technical assistance. Albania is considered a high-risk country by foreign investors, who have serious concerns
regarding the security of new investments. Indeed, the existing joint venture shrimp farm at Kavaja has serious
problems controlling theft of its high value crop, and consequently is just breaking even.
The project would aim to overcome these problems and ultimately demonstrate the feasibility of shrimp culture in
Albania. In particular, the project would assess the financial viability of the semi-intensive culture of Marsupeneus
japonicus. A semi-intensive method would likely produce higher yields and would require less space, which would
be easier to protect from theft. However, because this is a relatively novel activity for Albania, the project would
proceed cautiously using a phased approach, with the financing of each phase dependent upon the success of the
previous one.
Proposed Site and Description of the Proposed Semi-Intensive Farm
The project would establish an Aquaculture Demonstration Unit at Kavaja to demonstrate semi-intensive shrimp
farming methods and to provide a demonstration facility. The Demonstration Unit, as envisaged, could also supply
shrimp post-larvae to new commercial ventures to stimulate the development of the industry.
The proposed site for the Aquaculture Demonstration Unit is a former carp aquaculture complex, adjacent to the
facilities currently utilized by the Italian-Albanian joint venture shrimp farm mentioned above. The site is about 60
kilometers southwest of Tirana, on the Adriatic shore outside of the town of Kavaja. The Ministry of Agriculture
and Food (MoAF) has reclaimed about 4 hectares of land from the joint venture, which would be shared, together
with the unit's facilities, with a demonstration of eel aquaculture. The shrimp section of the unit would comprise a
small but well-equipped hatchery and four on-growing ponds (of a size to be determined).
A Phased Approach
Typically, shrimp aquaculture comprises the following two cycles:
*  Development and operation of a hatchery, and the production of post-larvae (PL) for stocking the grow-out
ponds; and
e  The grow-out of the post-larvae in ponds to marketable size.
However, it is proposed that the project start first with growing out post-larvae using either imported PL, or PL from
the joint venture, and later expand its activities to construction and operation of a hatchery. This approach is more
appropriate for Albania and is designed so that financial exposure can be minimized. Shrimp aquaculture is still
new in Albania, and technical and administrative capacity would need to be developed step by step. There are also
climatic risks that the project cannot control for. In addition, construction and operation of a hatchery are
technically the most difficult part of shrimp aquaculture, requiring extensive technical assistance, and incurring
major costs. Moreover, if the project were to start with building the hatchery, the first year could be lost to
construction and no actual aquaculture would take place. Construction of grow-out ponds is technically simple and
cheap, and could be accomplished in a short amount of time. If the project begins with the grow-out stage,
operations could commence very soon after the project is launched. Considering these factors, it is highly desirable
that the viability of shrimp aquaculture begin by first testing the grow-out phase using either imported PL or PL
from the joint venture.
In this context, it was decided that this activity would be carried out in a phased approach.
* Phase I would begin in January 2002 with the primary objective of demonstrating the technical and financial
feasibility of growing out shrimp using a semi-intensive method. This operation would also provide a sample
financial model for prospective private investors, as they will very likely purchase P'L from the hatchery (to be
constructed during the third phase). The activities during this phase would include: (a) construction and
operation of a nursery and three grow-out ponds for a semi-intensive grow-out of Marsupeneusjaponicus using
imported post-larvae; and (b) construction and management of auxiliary facilities (offices and gated fences) and
16



utility networks, and installation of equipment. During Phase I and II, experience with pond management
would be gained, and data on growth rates and on costs of production and marketing would be collected,
enabling the project to make a decision on whether or not to proceed with Phase III. Implementation of Phase I
could therefore proceed as follows.
October - December 2001    Detailed Design of Grow-out Ponds
January - April 2002      Construction of Grow-out Ponds
May 2002/3                Stocking of the Ponds with PL
August 2002/3             First Harvest
October 2002/3            Second Harvest
January - April 2004      Construction of Nursery (Phase III)
Following this schedule, it will be crucial to stock the grow-out ponds with PL in May to allow for two harvests,
one in August and one in October. If there are delays in the start of the project, only one harvest may be
possible. Depending upon the results of the grow-out trials in the first two years, construction of the hatchery
could start in late 2003 to be ready for production of shrimp larvae in the spring of the following year.
* Phase II and Phase III would consist of construction and operation of the hatchery and possible expansion of
the facilities if commercially justified.
Institutional Arrangements
This component would be carried out by the Fishery Research Institute (FRI) under the close supervision of the
MoAF and the PMU. The FRI would establish a special unit for the Kavaja Demonstration Center for the duration
of the project. During the first phase, the special unit would be staffed with a manager, a biologist, two workers, and
two security officers (24 hours). Three more workers would be recruited during the second phase. In order to
provide proper incentives, professional staff and workers would be recruited through a competitive process and
would be paid competitive salaries on a contract basis.
Phase I
Technical Assistance. About two man-months (three trips) of technical assistance would be provided to support the
initial set up of the grow-out ponds. The consultant would prepare an overall implementation plan for Phase I,
prepare technical specifications for the equipment, and supervise the detailed design for the grow-out ponds and
nursery construction. In addition, overseas training would be provided to the biologist on shrimp aquaculture. The
project would also send a group of specialists from the Department of Fisheries and the PMU to an existing shrimp
farm in the Mediterranean region to leam pond and hatchery operations and management. Detailed TORs will be
prepared during appraisal.
Phase II and III
Technical Assistance. About four man/months (three trips) of technical assistance would be provided to support the
setting up of the hatchery. The consultant would prepare an overall implementation plan for Phase II, prepare
technical specifications for the equipment, and supervise the detailed design for the hatchery. Detailed TORs will be
prepared during appraisal.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The PMU would monitor (a) overall progress of the project, (b) incurred costs, (c) progress in production, and (d)
environmental impacts, and would provide results to the Bank in a quarterly report. The PMU would also carry out
annual evaluations with assistance from an international expert, which would include (a), a summary of the financial
and technical outcomes of the previous years' activities, and (b), an activity plan for the forthcoming year. At the
end of Phase I, the PMU would carry out a detailed assessment of the shrimp grow-out demonstration to determine
17



the financial and technical viability of private shrimp farming. Based on this assessment, the Project Steering
Committee would make a decision on whether or not to proceed to Phase II.
Outreach to the Private Sector
As the objective of this activity is to demonstrate the viability of shrimp farming to potential private investors, the
project would collaborate with the IFC to identify possible investors and disseminate information to them from the
start of the project. After appraisal of the project, the PPU would carry out an initial workshop for potential
investors and the IFC to explain the concept of the shrimp program. Subsequent workshops would be held annually
to inform interested parties on the progress and results of the program. The demonstration center would be open at
all times to inquiries from potential investors.
B. Eel Aquaculture
The European eel (Anguilla anguilla) is a high value species that is widely distributed in the waters of Albania,
mainly in the lagoons and rivers along the Adriatic Sea. Eel have traditionally been caught and consumed in Albania
and are currently being fished commercially, mostly in lagoons. The European eel spawns in the Sargasso Sea
(adjacent to the Caribbean) and the young eel or elvers travel to Western Europe where they assemble in large
schools in front of lagoons, rivers and fresh water outfalls to travel further inland. At this time they can be caught for
aquaculture. According to information obtained during missions, elvers arrive in large numbers in Albania too and
therefore the mnission was asked to consider the possibility of eel culture in Albania.
However, eel culture at present does not fare well in Western Europe and is almost exclusively done in an intensive
way that requires a high investment and is technically sophisticated and therefore Albania would not have a
comparative advantage in eel culture. Moreover, it has not been possible to obtain definite information about the
availability of elvers in Albania. The project will finance an inventory of elvers along the Albanian coast, carried
out in two stages: One mission will be in November 2002 to organize the survey and train the fishermen in the use
of the particular catching gear. One or two subsequent missions will be timed to sample catch elvers when they
arrive in late winter/early spring of 2003. In the mean time the Fisheries Research Institute will gather all available
information on elvers in order to be able to plan consultant's mission to coincide with the arrival of the elvers and
identify the fishermen who will participate in the sampling. An important goal of the elver inventory will be to
determine if elver fishery could be sustainable, as elver numbers have been declining steadily in Western Europe
over the last decades.
C Tilapia Aquaculture
The project would support small-scale demonstrations of aquaculture of this species to test technical and financial
feasibility and to monitor ecological impacts. Tilapia is known to be an easy and high-value freshwater aquaculture
species, and it seems that this particular kind of tilapia cannot survive winter in Albania, thus would very unlikely
cause ecological problems (in terms of the introduction of non-indigenous species into the Albania water courses).
This species has been already introduced in Greece and Italy. Under this sub-component, a small hatchery would be
developed at the Fishery Research Institute in Tapiza (Durres) to raise tilapia fingerlings. Grow-out would be tried
out at cages to be installed at irrigation reservoirs managed by water user associations (WUAs). The participating
WUAs will be selected based on the performance on the irrigation management and their willing to expand their
activities.
Implementation Procedures
WUAs would participate in this activity according to the following procedures:
* Submission of an Application. WUAs who are interested in participating in the program would prepare a
proposal showing: (a) proposed sites for tilapia aquaculture, (b) commitment to the required contribution (i.e.
labor and feed cost), and (c) modalities through which the WUAs will be involved in aquaculture (i.e.
concessions or direct participation).
18



*  Review and Approval of the Proposal. PMU will review and approve the request in conjunction with the
Department of Fisheries and Irrigation PMU. Irrigation PMU will provide information regarding overall
capacity of the WUAs and make suggestions on whether the WUAs have adequate capacity or not. Upon
approval, an agreement would be signed between the PMU and the participating WUAs to carry out this pilot
program.
*  Reporting. After each year, each WUA will prepare a brief report showing: (a) financial summary of the WUA,
(b) amount of purchased fingerings, and (c) record of output (harvest), or outcome of concession.
During the first year of implementation, five WUAs will be selected to participate in grow-out. These WUAs will
assign their counterpart who will be responsible for the pilot program and purchase feed which are available from
local markets. WUAs will then provide technical data (growth), test marketability and financial viability, and assess
environmental impacts in collaboration with the project. After the pilot trial, the participating WUAs will retain the
cages, and will purchase fingerings at cost. It is expected that the contribution of the WUAs would amount to
US$126,000, or about half of the total cost of activities.
D. High Vale Marine Species (Sea Bass & Sea Bream)
The culturing of sea bass and sea bream in the Mediterranean has, after an initial boom, declined considerably in
economic viability due to increased production that has negatively affected their price. However Sea bass and Sea
bream still fetch a high price in Albania and the FRI expressed considerable interest in trying to promote the
cultivation of these species. Therefore, the project agreed to a cautious approach and to finance a trial of the grow-
out of sea bass and sea bream in ponds in Kavaja to determine if it would be feasible to introduce these species for
pond or cage-culture. If the grow-out were to prove successful, sea bass and sea bream could be propagated in the
hatchery later, because the time of propagation of these species does not coincide with the time of propagation of
shrimp. Sea bass and sea bream spawn in winter while shrimp spawn in spring. For the first year(s) of grow-out,
fingerlings could be bought in Greece where they are readily available. Greece is one of the largest producers of sea
bass and sea bream in the region.
During the second phase of the aquaculture operation in Kavaja (2003) 6 ponds will be constructed for the grow-out
of sea bass and sea bream. These species will be cultivated in a semi-intensive manner. This means that the water
will be exchanged once per day per pond and supplementary feed will be provided.
PROJECT COMPONENT 3: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING FOR THE PUBLIC SECTOR
This component aims to support the fisheries sector through the institutional strengthening of the public sector
within the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF). Component 3 is divided into 2 sub-components - the provision
of technical assistance (TA) to the Department of Fisheries, DoF and the provision of TA to the Fisheries Research
Institute, FRI. This support will be provided throughout the duration of the project.
Background & Justir cation
The DoF is the sole government institution responsible for managing both the marine and freshwater fisheries sector.
It is institutionally very weak, and has a permanent Head Office staff (based in Tirana) of only five people - one
Director and two staff in each of the Fisheries Resources Department and Fisheries Inspectorate. At least 2 of these
4 staff below the Director function purely as administrators. The Fisheries Inspectorate in turn has a network of
some 7 inspectors at a number of the more important inland lake fish landing-sites and coastal ports throughout the
country. Some of the key institutional issues that need to be addressed by the project include the following.
*  The staff has very little incentive for good performance and the newly appointed director has limited experience
on the fishery management. In addition, resources for the DoF is strictly limited to undertake their duties.
Currently there is more fisheries-trained expertise and human resources working outside the public sector than
within the DoF.
*  Only the Director is computer literate and trained to graduate level, although the other Head Office staff has had
some computer training.
19



*   Many (if not all) of the regionally based Fishery Inspectors are under-resourced and unable to do very much to
perform their duties - in most cases the inspectors are confined to monitoring landings on a part time basis only.
Institutional links with the Head Office are also very poor
*   There is no fisheries policy or strategic development plan for the sector.
*   The DoF has no means of enforcing the fisheries law in terms of capacity in MCS and has no formal charter
agreement with the FRI conceming fisheries research and resource management.
*   The information system used by the DoF to register fishing vessels, their fishing licenses, catches and landings
is based largely on paper transactions and is ineffective as a tool to improve management of the sector.
The FRI was established in 1958 in Durres, with the primary functions of exploring and introducing new
technologies in the fishery and aquaculture sector, and to carry out stock assessment in Albanian waters. However,
like other institutions in the MoAF, the FRI is institutionally very weak. It has about 50 staff, of which only 7 are
scientifically qualified. Indeed, the Institute has two departments, Fisheries Resources, with a total staff of 8, and
Aquaculture, with a staff of 40. In terms of the capacity of the FRI to perform its primary functions, a number of
institutional issues need to be addressed:
*   Lack of Incentives. Most of the staff, including technical staff, is paid a very low wage (in line with other public
servants) and there is no incentive for the staff to work efficiently of indeed full-time. Recruitment of new
technically qualified staff is also difficult.
*   Limited Budget and Activities. Because the institute has a limited budget, the focus of the institute's work is
rather on the routine (commercial) work than the scientific research. For example, the majority of the
Aquaculture Department is involved in the cultivation of carp fingerings.
*   Limited Resources for Research Work. The institute has no research vessel to undertake one of its primary
functions, and much of its analytical (laboratory) facilities are inadequate. There is therefore little in the way of
applied research undertaken on fish stock assessment.
a   Lack of Formal Administrative Arrangements. - The FRI's charter (statute) is non-existent, and although it
appears that the FRI comes under the DoF, there is no formal charter agreement between these two institutions.
Because of this almost total absence of enforcement of the existing Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture and
associated fishery regulations, there is therefore great concern over the potential depletion of Albania's fish
resources. This includes both coastal and offshore marine and inland freshwater lake fish stocks. Consensus
amongst those advising the MoAF is that the future of the fisheries sector depends on a combination of institutional
strengthening of the public sector and the involvement of fishing communities in the co-management of their own
resources (see Project Component I - Sub-component 2).
Outputs and Key Activities
The outputs from this component would be:
Sub-component 1 - Technical Assistance to the DoF
*   All DoF Head Office staff and Fisheries Inspectors trained to improve management of the sector, including the
capacity to support the proposed FMAs.
*   Senior DoF and MoAF staff trained to prepare technical documents and strengthening of inter-ministerial
legislation.
*   Improved data collection and management of information from the sector.
*   Improved capacity for planning within the sector.
Sub-component 2 - Technical Assistance to the FRI
*   All FRI staff trained as appropriate to improve the performance of the institute in line with agreed objectives.
*   Improved management of the FRI and limited rehabilitation of the institute's existing facilities and equipment.
*   Improved data collection and management of information from the sector.
The identified combined activities within these two sub-components to achieve these outputs are as follows.
20



Preparation of a Training Plan and Delivery of a Training Program for the DoF and FRI. The aim of this
activity is to provide the MoAF with a Human Resource Development (HRD) Plan for all government staff within
the DoF and FRI. This HRD plan will focus specifically on the training needs of the staff of these institutions during
the 5-year duration of the FDP. The key objective of this project sub-component is to prepare a plan to support
government fisheries institutions in developing their institutional capacity through human resource development.
Implementation of the training plan prepared as an output of the TNA (see above) will be undertaken over the
duration of the FDP. Preliminary results from interviews with staff from these institutions, undertaken as part of the
project pre-appraisal (March 2001) suggest that the training needs are likely to be very diverse. Training may
include general language and computer training, training in the latest techniques in fish stock assessment, fisheries
management, policy and planning, financial administration, human resource management, Training of Trainers for
extension work, and an introduction to community-based fishery resource co-management and MCS.
The probable diversity of needs will call for the development of a range of short in-country courses on a wide
variety of subjects, through to specialist overseas courses for key government officials. The local Training Institute,
selected through competitive tender for delivery of a training program for the FMAs, should also be involved in
delivery of some of the local training inputs. Provision should also be given to investigating the possibility of
establishing a permanent fishery training facility for the sector.
It will however be important to identify and describe any mechanisms that may help to ensure the sustainability of
the training program within the FDP. One or more institutions within government may need to be bestowed with the
responsibility of maintaining the training program following completion of the FDP, so ensuring that they are
offered to (and possibly a pre-condition to) new officers entering the relevant posts. The sustainable impact of the
project will therefore not just be the trained personnel, but also the development of training packages that can be
duplicated for new staff, plus guidelines and procedures to institutionalize fisheries development issues in future
sector planning and project design.
Preparation of a Fisheries Sector Policy, Strategy & Management Plan for the MoAF. The MoAF and DoF
currently have access to a Fisheries Management Plan, prepared in 1999 under an EU Phare Program. Whilst
containing a useful amount of technical, biological and some micro-economic information, unfortunately the
document is little more than a descriptive sector review. For example there is no macro-economic assessment of the
contribution of the sector to GNP, no mention of Coastal Zone Management (CZM) issues, socio-economic issues or
human resource development needs. The document certainly does not constitute a management plan for the sector.
The Green Strategy is the government strategy for agricultural development in Albania, within which there is a
section defining the policy objectives for the fisheries and aquaculture sub-sectors. Unfortunately the strategy paper
action plan lacks quantifiable indicators for the above stated objectives and policy actions, plus there is no mention
of the need for capacity building and institutional strengthening within the public sector to support these plans.
There also appears to be some confusion in the Green Strategy between what is viewed as the government's
objectives for, and policy towards, the sector and how is will actually achieve these sectoral objectives through an
agreed sector strategy and plan.
Although a number of proposed activities within the FDP do address many of the above-stated sectoral objectives in
the Green Strategy, the government lacks a longer-term strategy and development plan for the sector. There is
therefore a need within the project to redefine and develop a new sector policy, strategy and management plan for
the period 2005-2010. The output from such work must also be translated in full into the Albanian language so that
it can be used as a tool in the resource co-management process, particularly given the importance being placed on
co-management and stakeholder participation by the FMAs. This work will require a range of international TA,
including the CTA, an economist, and fisheries policy and planning and management specialists.
Other international TA requirements linked to the general discipline of policy and planning include the provision of
TA for preparing technical documents to negotiate international agreements with neighboring countries. This is
important given the multi-species nature of the demersal fish stocks in the Adriatic and the shared fish stocks on
inland lakes bordering with Montenegro and Macedonia. Legal assistance will also be provided to support the
21



Fisheries Directorate in reviewing various inter-ministerial laws, particularly in relation to the strengthening
legislation for improved Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) and MCS.
Preparation of a Business Management Plan for the FRI. The FRI is recognized as institutionally weak and
lacks a formalized linkage with the DoF. There is urgent need for a management plan for the institute to both define
its role within the sector and set clear objectives for its continued operation. This would incorporate a new statute to
formalize the relationship between the FRI and the DoF, and provide an action plan for developing the FRI's key
competencies.
It would also include the need to identify and develop opportunities for seeking funding from the private sector (in
terms of collaborative research and operation or partial sale/privatization of the state owned hatcheries). Strategies
will need to be considered that are in line with the increasing trend within Europe of state owned research
establishments becoming less and less reliant on public sector funding. Areas that will be covered in this work
include an analysis of its strategic role within Albania and the region, definition of agreed Mission Statement and
Objectives, preparation of an operational plan, research plan, human resources planning and financial analysis,
planning and budgeting for 3 years. This work will be undertaken by international and local as a priority in the first
phase of the project (late 2001 - early 2002).
The project should as an output of the management plan, also make a provisional budget for minor refurbishment
works and equipment for the FRI. This will compliment planned interventions by the EU Phare Program. The
precise details of what work will be required will be elaborated in the management plan for the institute.
Training and Equipment for Development of a Fisheries Management Information System (FMIS). There is
considerable scope for improving the collection and use of fisheries data by the DoF as a tool for improving resource
management. Collection of fisheries data and information is not an end in itself but is essential for informed
decision-making. It is therefore important for any management authority (in this case the DoF and FMAs) to ensure
that the data collected are analyzed correctly, disseminated to where they can best be used, and used appropriately in
decision-making. Data and informnation are generally required at the three levels, policy formulation, formulation of
management plans, and the determination of management actions to implement the policy and plans (the latter
particularly in association with the FMAs). These requirements overlap considerably and each of the three steps will
be influenced by what has happened or is happening at the other two levels. Nevertheless, the three processes are
distinct, occur on different time scales and require different information to different levels of detail.
The verification or validation of data is also essential to ensure that it is accurate, complete and gives a true
indication of the state or value of the factors under consideration. The problems associated with the collection of
fisheries data mean that the risks of collecting erroneous or inappropriate data are very high without careful and
statistically valid design. It is likely that the validity of much of the data currently being used to assess the volume
(and value) of fish landings in Albania is questionable.
Promoting the concept of resource co-management will also be made much easier and more effective if there the
data collection is done in accordance with agreed common definitions, classifications and methodologies and in a
pre-agreed, standardized format, enabling all data to be combined and compared as required. Collection of such
standardized data will require that the DoF, FRI and FMAs meet periodically to agree on the data requirements, the
methods to collect the data, the amount of data to be collected and to review the sample design. Lastly, given the
continually limited resources of the public sector, the collection, collation and dissemination of data needs to be
carried out in a cost-effective manner possible so as to minimize costs whilst at the time ensuring the required
information. Duplication in data collection and analysis also needs to be avoided.
There is currently no uniform mechanism to formally transfer information between the private sector and Fisheries
Inspectors, other stakeholders, DoF and FRI, and between government ministries. Information on the topics such as
the impact of regional agreements, EU regulations, legal issues, budgeting, vessel-registration, catches and landings,
cost control rent agreements and licensing issues all needs to be disseminated, particularly to support co-ordination
of sector development strategies.
22



This work will complement the MCS planning and training proposed in Component 1 (Sub-Component 2) of the
FDP. A FMIS related project has recently started, funded only for one year through the FAO ADRIAMED Program,
and the project intends to follow on from this work. It is also advisable that this work should also be aligned in
comnpliance with European Commission requirements, in view of the government's foreign policy to seek accession
to the European Union at the earliest opportunity. This is particularly with regard to incorporating as appropriate a
fishing vessel registration database and a landing data collection system into the FMIS. Inputs would include
intemational and local TA, networked computer equipment (desktop computers, printers, modems, scanners,
software), and training for MoAF, DoF, FRI and FMA staff.
PROJECT COMPONENT 4: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A Project Management Unit (PMU) will oversee implementation of the above activities. Considering the various
agencies involved in each of the components, this provides a considerable challenge. The PMU will ensure an
efficient implementation of the activities proposed under the proposed project. It is intended that the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU), which is actively involved in the project preparation, will take-over the responsibility as the
PMU. The project team currently consists of a Director, Financial Management and Procurement Specialist (who
will be jointly working for the Agriculture Service Project and the proposed fishery project), Aquaculture Advisor,
and FMA staff (National Coordinators). The team will be strengthened through engagement of an international
consultant to act as a Chief Technical Advisor, who will work primarily to assist in the establishment of FMAs, but
also support the PMU in the implementation of the remainder of the project.
23



PART Ill - PROJECT'S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
A. Existing Environmental Issues to be Addressed by the Project
Currently the Albanian fishery sector is almost completely unregulated, and both marine and freshwater fisheries are
in danger of being depleted by over-fishing and the use of destructive and unsustainable fishing methods. Ocean
demersal stocks are particularly vulnerable due to heavy near-shore trawling, and the Koran fish, endemic to Lake
Ohrid, is in danger of extinction if unlicensed fishing is left unchecked. Foreign vessels are fishing Albanian waters
without reprisals, contributing further to over-fishing and depletion of stocks. In addition, fishing ports have been
seriously neglected; leaving both grounds and waters polluted by solid waste, posing health and safety risks to
humans.
The project was designed to address these ecological and environmental issues. One of the two main objectives of
the proposed project is to achieve the sustainable use of fisheries resources through:
(a) Developing a regulatory and institutional framework for fisheries
(b) Involving fishing communities in ports and fisheries resource management
(c) Training Department of Fisheries and Fishery Research Institute personnel
(d) Establishing programs for collecting information on fisheries stocks
(e) Strengthening the Koran restocking program, and
(f) Testing alternative, ecologically sustainable fishing techniques and gear
In addition, the project would assist in rehabilitating and cleaning up Albania's major sea and lake port facilities,
and would engage fishermen in managing fishing ports.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Ocean Demersal Stocks
Fishermen in Albania are currently using old bottom trawlers to catch demersal fish, and because their operations
are unregulated, stocks have declined substantially in recent years, resulting in smaller and smaller harvests.
Fishermen sometimes invest in new trawling gear and engines, wrongly believing that they can increase their catch
using the same techniques with newer equipment. In addition, recent increases in oil prices have limited the areas
fished to those nearest the shore, which are used as nursery grounds by demersal species. There are no controlled
closed seasons for spawning, no minimum size of fish allowed for catch, and no conservation of nursery areas. And
illegal fishing by foreign vessels is rampant, contributing further to the depletion of stocks.
The Government has no institutional or regulatory framework, and no monitoring or enforcement capacity for
protecting and sustainably managing these demersal stocks. Therefore, the project would support the institutional
strengthening of local Fishery Management Organizations (FMAs), and make them partners with the Government in
co-managing fisheries resources.  To develop the management capacity of FMAs, the project would raise
fishermen's awareness and knowledge of sustainable marine resource management, promote self regulation towards
sustainable marine resource management, and set up programs for collecting information regarding catches and
stocks of fisheries resources. The project would assist the FMAs in developing fishery management plans and local
fishing regulations on allowable catch, off-limits seasons and areas, minimum sizes, and allowable equipment, as
well as licensing and enforcement mechanisms.
In addition, the project would assist the Government in developing regulatory and institutional frameworks and a
management plan for the sector). The project would also provide technical assistance to prepare the Government for
negotiating bi-lateral treaties on fisheries. It would also provide a Fisheries Management Information System
(FMIS) and help to develop the capacity of the Fishery Research Institute in collecting information regarding
catches and stocks of marine resources, and in conducting research on new species for aquaculture.
24



Increased ghost fishing from abandoned nets or lost fishing nets and traps could also be a problem, so the project is
only providing set nets, although fishermen based at the project sites could still abandon trawl nets. The fishermen
will be sensitized to the problems associated with abandoned nets. Enforcement of regulations will be addressed
through the institutional strengthening component (FMAs) proposed under the project. Under the project, FMAs
would share the responsibility for the enforcement of fisheries regulations with the State.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lagoon Fisheries
Lagoon fishing is popular in Albania, and reportedly some 500 families depend on lagoon fishing, mainly for eel
and sea bass. However, during recent years lagoon fisheries have declined significantly. This is due partly to illegal
(unlicensed) fishing, and partly to the use of explosives as a method of fishing. Fishermen will be sensitized to the
damage done by explosives and enforcement of regulations will be addressed through the institutional strengthening
component (FMAs) proposed under the project. Under the project, FMAs would share the responsibility for the
enforcement of fisheries regulations with the State.
As these lagoons provide important habitats for migratory birds, such as pelicans and herons, it is critical that lagoon
fishing is controlled and fisheries stocks are maintained. The project would support the management of lagoon
fishing by organizing local fishermen into Fishery Management Organizations, establishing fishing regulations and
enforcement mechanisms, and assisting efforts to restock lagoons. The project plans to help establish lagoon FMAs
in Narta, Karavasta, and Butrinti.
Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lake Ohrid Koran
The rapid decline in the stock of the Lake Ohrid trout (Koran) is also becoming a major environmental concem.
Koran is endemic to the lake, and has a strong domestic market. The decline is reportedly due partly to the large
volume of illegal (unlicensed) fishing, and to less than successful efforts to restock the lake. Therefore the project
would support the Government's and the communities' efforts to address these challenges through (a) establishing
FMAs that would co-manage the fishery with the Government, (b) assisting FMAs in developing and enforcing
fishing regulations, (c) rehabilitating the restocking facilities in Lin to intensify the restocking effort, and (d)
exploring the financial and technical viability of aquaculture for Koran.
Pollution from Fishing Ports
The project would carry out minor rehabilitation and improvements to fishing port facilities in order to meet very
basic intemational standards of navigation safety and hygiene, and to support the FMAs' management of these
facilities. Specifically, the project would clean up wreckage, repair damage to essential port facilities (e.g., quays
and jetties), and provide essential infrastructure such as water supply, toilets, and offices for FMAs, and small
storage facilities. In addition, the project would finance the preparation of management plans for fishing port and
grounds, which will be carried out jointly by the FMAs and the Departmnent of Fisheries.
Compliance with a number of international conventions also need to be addressed by the project. In accordance with
the recommendations of the Committee on Fisheries (COFI) at its Nineteenth Session in March 1991 and the
subsequent International Conference on Responsible Fishing, held in Cancun (Mexico) in 1992, the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations prepared a voluntary Code of Practice for Responsible
Fisheries (1994). The Code was formulated so as to be interpreted and applied in conformity with the relevant rules
of international law, as reflected in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982 (UNCLOS).
The Twenty-eighth Session of FAO in Resolution 4/95 adopted the Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries on
31 October 1995. The same Resolution ushered in appropriate precautionary (as opposed to reactionary) technical
guidelines for the procedures for the development and management of harbors and landing places for fishing vessels.
Some of the provisions in these guidelines may be or have already been given binding effect by means of legal
instruments or third country directives, such as:
* UNCLOS 82 (UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, December 82);
* MONTREAL PROTOCOL (Montreal Protocol to the Vienna Convention);
25



* MARPOL 73/78 (International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1973, as modified by the
Protocol of 1978);
*  UNCED 92 (UN Conference on the Environment and Development, June 1992);
*  LDC 1972 (London Dumping Convention, 1972);
*  EEC COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 91/493/EEC.
B. Potential Environmental Risks from Project Activities
Environmental assessments were carried out for port rehabilitation component at each of the six major ports selected
for the project's first phase. Environmental assessments were also carried out for the aquaculture component for
Koran, shrimp, and eel. The aquaculture of tilapia will be tested on a small scale in irrigation reservoirs that have no
outlets to natural lakes or rivers.
There are two major project activities that may potentially present risks to the environment and ecology: (a) the
larger-scale aquaculture activities for Koran, and high-value marine species; and (b) construction works for the
rehabilitation of the fishing ports. There are also some environmental risks associated with the possible increase in
fishing activities that result from the project's ports rehabilitation and fisheries management activities.
Aquaculture
The second major objective of the project is to restore the country's original capacity in traditional fresh water
aquaculture, and explore Albania's potential in the aquaculture of high-value species in order to provide new
opportunities for income generation and take pressure off diminishing stocks of wild species. The aquaculture
development component would mainly aim to: (a) restore the original capacity of fresh water aquaculture through
support to FMAs at inland reservoirs, (b) support the Government's program to restock Koran in Lake Ohrid, and (c)
support the Government's initiatives to explore the potential for aquaculture of new, high value species through
demonstration programs. Specifically, the project would include: (a) Support to restocking of carp in reservoirs, (b)
support to the Koran restocking program, and (c) a pilot program to test the aquaculture of new marine and fresh
water species.
In principle, the preliminary assessments found that the potential environmental impacts of the proposed aquaculture
programs are not significant and can be mitigated sufficiently. The primary impacts would come from: (a) organic
waste water from hatcheries and grow-out ponds, and (b) organic sedimentation (sludge) in the grow-out ponds.
There are also risks associated with the accidental introduction of new species into the wild, such as disease,
unfavorable changes in the genetic pool, and competitive pressure on indigenous species. The project is designed to
minimize these environmental risks associated with aquaculture.
Restocking Koran in Lake Ohrid. The Ohrid trout, or Koran, (salmo letnica) is endemnic to Lake Ohrid, and its
stocks are being depleted mainly due to over-fishing. The Government is already operating, at low capacity, a
hatchery in Lin for restocking Koran. This subcomponent would mainly consist of rehabilitation of and minor
improvements to the existing hatchery, and technical assistance programs to improve the management of the
restocking facilities.
The primary environmental risks associated with this subcomponent would be from the organic wastes discharged
from the hatchery into the lake, which could lead to the build-up of organic matter on the lake bottom, causing
eutrophication. To mitigate this risk, the project would utilize specially formulated fish food containing limited
amounts of phosphorus, which would minimize the amount of phosphorus in the effluent discharged into lake. The
project would also construct a purification wetland in the area between the hatchery and the lake. The wetland or
"pond" would function as a bio-filter, using specific plant and fish species that are able to utilize the organic waste
from hatchery operations. A plan for regular monitoring of water quality is being developed, and technical
assistance would be provided to hatchery staff for environmental management.
There is no risk from the release of mature Koran into the lake. Usually there is a reluctance to release animals bred
in captivity into wild populations because they may be genetically less vigorous or lack the imprint necessary to find
26



their spawning grounds. This is not a concern in this case because the Koran fry will come from wild parents that
spawn in the area where the hatchery-raised fish are being released.
Demonstration of Shrimp Aquaculture. Under this subcomponent, the project would establish an aquaculture
demonstration unit, including a hatchery and some on-growing ponds, to demonstrate semi intensive shrimp farming
methods and to provide a training center. The demonstration unit will utilize existing carp farm facilities in Kavaja
that were formerly operated by the state.
The environmental impact of the demonstration farm is limited because of its siting in an area already converted to
aquaculture, near a commercial shrimp farm already in operation. The risks of introducing Marsupeneus japonicas
into Albanian waters are considered insubstantial since the species already exists in the Mediterranean, and there are
no reported cases of it displacing the native species, Marsupeneus kerathurus. The hatchery's main impact would be
the discharge of effluent into the sea in front of the farm. This discharge will contain organic waste, but otherwise
no toxic or non-biodegradable substances. Thus far, there have not been adverse environmental impacts of the
existing shrimp farm in Kavaja and the canal conveying the outflow from the ponds and hatchery is fill of fish,
which means that the water is sufficiently oxygenated. Nevertheless, to ensure that the wastewater is of acceptable
quality, a purification wetland from which filtered water can flow into the sea will be constructed. The sea is
shallow in front of the farm, so the receiving waters will be well aerated, which is conducive to a speedy breakdown
of the remaining organic material. In addition, the management practices described in a document called "Codes of
practice for responsible shrimp farming" issued by the Global Aquaculture Alliance would be adopted by the
project.
To limit the spread of diseases, the project would use strict quarantine procedures with new brood stock. Also, the
area for releasing effluents will be carefully situated so that effluents do not mix with the water supply of the same
and other shrimp farms.
Demonstration of Sea Bass and Sea Bream Culture. The environmental impact of Sea Bass and Sea Bream
culture is practically identical to the environmental impact of shrimp culture. The only impact will be the discharge
of waste water from the grow-out ponds and eventually the hatchery. Waste water from the culturing of Sea Bass
and Sea Bream will be treated in the same way as the waste water from the culturing of shrimp, using the same
purification wetland. Monitoring of BOD and COD of the effluent according to standard methods will be carried
out by the FRI every 2 months during reproduction and grow-out season. Although the existing farm does not
report any accumulation of sludge, (the ponds are periodically dry and the bottom is plowed and disinfected with
quick lime), eventual sludge will be used as fertilizer in the adjacent agricultural land after being put in one of the
numerous unused ponds first to leach the salt from it.
Demonstration of Tilapia Aquaculture. Aquaculture of tilapia is currently underway on a pilot basis under the
IDA-financed irrigation project, for which water user associations are using cages to conduct grow-outs of tilapia
fingerlings provided by the Fishery Research Institute. It has been found that the particular species of tilapia
proposed for this project very likely cannot survive in the wild because water temperatures are too low during the
winter in Albania. Tilapia would therefore not pose any threat to native species. This would be confirmed during
the first year of the project before the Fishery Development Project sets up a demonstration of tilapia aquaculture at
a state-owned hatchery facility at Durres. The other potential environmental impacts of this activity is evaluated
negligible, as the project would involve mainly indoor works. The hatchery is currently under operation without any
major environmental issues, and incremental effluent is also considered negligible. Therefore, no mitigation
measures are considered necessary.
Rehabilitation/Upgrading of Fishing Port Facilities
Because Albania's shore-based fisheries infrastructure has been neglected for more than a decade, much of it has
fallen into disrepair, and solid waste materials have accumulated near the jetties. Therefore, the project would
provide FMOs with basic fishing port infrastructure or would rehabilitate existing facilities to international standards
in order to improve navigational safety and hygiene standards. It would also set up waste reception systems in line
with International Maritime Organization (IMO) recommendations, and carry out substantial clean-up works to
27



remove the many wrecks and accumulated rubbish. Construction for the proposed rehabilitation and/or upgrades to
the port facilities would not be substantial, and would not alter any of the ports' locations or capacity.
A comprehensive Environmental Assessment of the proposed port development work was undertaken in March-May
2001. The following is a list of issues addressed (and mitigating measures proposed) in the EA Report with regard
to the physical works proposed under the project.
*   Physical intrusion on the environment of the FMO buildings
*   Loss of shoreline habitat
*   Pollution of aquatic environment from vessel operations (oily bilge water, spent engine oil, hazardous waste,
non-toxic voluminous wastes, wet wastes and Refueling)
*   Generation of Wastes on an Industrial Scale
*   Generation of Objectionable Odors
*   Generation of Increased Traffic Within City Limit
*   Increased Demand for Public Utilities (in relation to water, electricity and sewerage treatment), and
*   Increased Demand for Forest Products
Physical intrusion on the environment of the FMA buildings. Overall, the visual impact will be enhanced since
most sites will be cleaned up of existing debris and wrecks that litter the areas of the development project. The sites
for the new FMA buildings are practically all within the fishing port areas, themselves within the commercial ports.
The only exceptions are the lakeside project sites. The buildings at Durres will consist of purpose built containerized
offices and stores in order that these may be relocated to the new fisheries port in 2 to 3 year's time. The buildings at
Saranda will be reinforced concrete structures with plastered hollow-block walls and partitions in line with current
local building architecture. Both buildings (office and hygiene blocks) will be single story. The buildings at Vlora
will consist of rehabilitated existing shell structures with no changes in external layout. The buildings on the
lakesides will consist of both office and hygiene blocks and containerized chill stores. The office and hygiene
buildings will be finished in an eye-pleasing natural stone, typical of old buildings in the area. The containerized
structures will be housed between stone buildings and false partition walls also finished in stone. No external
mechanical parts will be left patently visible to the casual eye. The area around the root of the GEF jetty at Pogradec
was put forward as a potential site for a complex but was rejected as it is currently a bathing area.
Mitigation. All the project's buildings will be designed by local architects and made conformant with local building
practices, especially around the lakeshores.
Loss of shoreline habitat - The construction of the quays at Shengjin and Saranda will entail the loss of both inter-
tidal habitat and bottom habitat. With a tidal variation of around 300mm, the loss of inter-tidal habitat will be around
40 square meters at each of the port sites. The loss of bottom habitat will be around 1,000 square meters at Saranda
and 1,500 square meters at Shengjin. Both areas are currently inside existing port boundaries. Alternative structures
on piles may not be feasible at Shengjin and will be too costly overall when compared to the benefit since both areas
are inside active port environments.
Mitigation: Some loss of habitat is inevitable. However, with good construction site management, this loss will be
kept down to the bare minimum required for the construction.
Pollution of aquatic environment from vessel operations. Although the project is not funding any new vessels,
the current fleet may eventually increase sailings to cover pelagic species as well. The increased use of the vessels
may lead to increased pollution levels. Pollution of the aquatic environment from vessel operations typically falls
into two broad categories, i.e. those from the repair of the vessels and those from the vessels themselves. Under this
project, only the slipway at Saranda will be upgraded. However, the ports of Shingjin and Vlora are both destined to
receive rubber-tyred mobile boat gantries under EU funding. Hence, overall, it is anticipated that 3 ports will
eventually increase vessel repair operations. These repair operations will give rise to solid wastes, which will
include antifouling paint scrapings and cans and machine spares and oily rags that may be considered toxic to the
marine environment. Vessel operations in all harbors give rise to a variety of wastes all of which are deemed toxic or
detrimental to the marine environment such as of oily bilge water, spent engine oil, hazardous solid wastes such as
starter batteries and engine components and non-toxic solid wastes such as nets, fenders and other fittings.
28



Mitigation: Waste reception facilities will be provided for each operation separately.
*   Oily bilge water - Except for the lakeside sites (which only use outboard engines) all the four port facilities will
be equipped with an oily water separator and suction pump. Bilge water will thus be pumped ashore during
refueling operations and treated via the separator to remove the oil portion (5ppm ofC PHC standard discharge
effluent) and the clean seawater returned back to the sea.
*   Spent engine oil - Special receptacles will be provided inside the same port areas for the disposal of used
engine oil that will then be collected by authorized collectors for proper disposal. The current practice of using
it to oil the trawling gear will be phased out in favor of more environment-friendly products, such as non-toxic
waterproof grease.
*   Hazardous waste - Receptacles will also be provided for hazardous solid wastes, such as starter batteries, oil
filters, oily rags, etc. These will be disposed of in accordance with national environmental legislation.
*   Non-toxic voluminous wastes - Skips or enclosed dumping enclosures will be provided for the disposal of
large objects. These will be collected for disposal elsewhere in accordance with local Council legislation.
*   Wet wastes - Airtight PVC containers will be provided in areas where wet fish wastes will be produced.
However, most facilities do not process or clean fish but move it on to the market as soon as possible.
*   Refueling - The refueling of vessels, were appropriate, will also be done in accordance with internationally
accepted standards. This will involve providing the appropriate infrastructure at the jetties, which will then be
operated by the FMAs. Where required (Shengjin and Saranda) the fuel tanks will be stationary and above
ground to prevent leakages from going unnoticed and potentially reaching the water table. The tanks will sit
inside a containment tray large enough to hold the entire contents of the tank. All fittings will be in accordance
to accepted API (American Petroleum Institute) standards. At Durres and Vlora, where stationary tanks are not
suitable (the Durres facility has to move in about 2 year's time and the distances in Vlora are too large), mobile
tankers will be made available. These will be towed to the refueling area by small multipurpose tractors. Once
all the waste reception hardware is installed, it is proposed to implement the FAO-IMO Cleaner Harbors
Program in each of the project sites. This program of environmental awareness and house keeping inside
fishing harbors will be run in conjunction with the FMAs.
Generation of Wastes on an Industrial Scale. Apart from the wastes mentioned above, the other types of waste
which may increase are wet wastes and polystyrene foam from single-use fish boxes, especially at the lake shore
sites.
Mitigation. The project will introduce receptacles for the proper disposal of wet waste that will go a long way in
solving potential hygiene and odor problems. All fish receiving centers will be equipped with heavy duty washable
HDPE plastic boxes to prevent further use of polystyrene boxes on the local market. Wet wastes in appreciable
quantities will increase only when the pelagic fisheries start again.
Generation of Objectionable Odors. No fish processing, including gutting, takes place at any of the fishing
harbors as most landings are high value low volume. Only packing on ice is envisaged. Should the pelagic fisheries
restart (subject to the availability of a fish processing factory opening up in Albania), a closer look at the volumes of
wet fish wastes will be needed to avert the odorous conditions similar to those obtaining at the Shingjin anchovy
bottling plant from being repeated.
Mitigation. None necessary.
Generation of Increased Traffic Within City Limits. All the development sites are rehabilitations of existing
sites and no radical change in traffic patterns is anticipated except during construction.
Mitigation. This will be limited to normal working hours through the use of good construction management
principles.
Increased Demand for Public Utilities. The fisheries development project will place a greater demand on public
utilities (power, potable water and sewage treatment), but the introduction of chlorinated potable water (supply and
short term storage) and sewage treatment in all the project sites will have an overall beneficial impact on personal
hygiene and the environment as a whole.
29



Mitigation.
*   Water - On the lakeside sites, enough water may be drawn from shallow bore wells driven in the foreshore.
After chlorination the water will be stored in 17,000 Lt water tanks. Should the need for more water storage
arise, ample space will be provided for the addition of extra tanks. In other municipal areas, where the supply is
either erratic or does not reach the fishing port, water will have to be either piped in over a short distance or
delivered by tanker from municipal sources. The water will be chlorinated and stored for use. Although water is
generally plentiful, outdated and corroded pipes as well as illegal tappings make water shortages a common
occurrence in most areas. Water storage infrastructure will be installed in all sites. All water supplies will be
metered and the FMAs will charge for the supply. To limit the volume of water used to hose down fish boxes
and the handling floors and fish stands, high-pressure cleaners (which consume only a fraction of the water
from a normal hose) will be specified in each area.
*   Sewage treatment- Sewage treatment is very problematic throughout Albania, even in large urban areas.
Consequently, each project site will be equipped with a proper septic tank in reinforced concrete and all
outflows from the project's buildings and hygiene facilities will be treated on site before being discharged into
percolation fields or into the sea.
*   Electricity - Although Albania's hydroelectric supply may be adequate for the country's current needs (depends
largely on the amount of rainfall), the transmission network is outdated and under-designed and cannot cope
with the rapid increase in the use of personal household electrical appliances. As a result, frequent brownouts
occur during the winter months. The project's demand for power is low, requiring power mainly for the FMA
offices and quayside public lighting. Only 2 sites (Shiroka and Udenisht) will require substantial power to run
ice plants (75 kVA each). Both sites will be provided with standby generators.
Increased Demand for Forest Products. The project intends to re-introduce fish smoking as an alternative means
of income for the lake fishermen at Shkodra. In addition, approximately 1,50 cubic meters of timber planking will be
required for the landing jetty at Udenisht.
Mitigation. The fish smoking will only be approved once wood for smoking from sustainable sources has been
identified.
Impacts on the Environment During Construction of the Facilities. During the construction phase of the
facilities, some impact on the environment is to be expected. Typically, these impacts will consist of the following:
At Durres:
*   Minor increase in traffic due to vehicles delivering construction materials and taking away waste materials
and disruption of movement patterns to and from the jetties due to stationary construction equipment.
*   Minor increases in noise levels.
*   Minor adverse impacts on water quality during clean up and repair ofjetties.
At Vlora:
*   Minor localized deterioration in air quality from dust generation during refurbishment of port buildings.
*   Minor adverse impacts on water quality during removal of wrecks resulting in re-suspension of sediment
and organic matter.
At Shingj in:
*   Moderate negative impacts on water quality resulting from reclamation work and construction of new quay
wall.
*   Minor localized deterioration in air quality from dust generation.
*   Minor increase in heavy traffic due to vehicles delivering construction materials and taking away waste
materials and disruption of movement due stationary construction plant.
*   Moderate adverse noise impacts at nearby residential properties.
At Saranda:
*   Minor localized deterioration in air quality from dust generation.
*   Minor increase in traffic due to vehicles delivering construction materials and taking away waste materials
and disruption of movement due to stationary construction plant.
*   Moderate increases in noise level potentially impacting nearby houses and hotel.
30



Moderate adverse impacts on water quality during construction of new quay wall and slipway and the
removal of wrecks.
At Shkodra:
*  Minor to moderate disruption to access to fishing boats and equipment (Zogaj).
*  Moderate noise impacts at nearby houses (Zogaj). Minor impacts at Shiroka and Koplik.
At Ohrid:
*  Minor noise impacts (all sites).
Mitigation. Given the scale and type of interventions on the environment, most of the impacts are transient in nature
and implementation of good construction site management practice (use of appropriately sized equipment,
equipment and material storage areas fenced off, prompt removal of waste from site to appropriate disposal,
watering of access roads to limit dust, working at sea during calm weather to limit dust plumes and site working
hours confined from 8.00 AM to 4.00 PM Monday to Friday, etc.) should limit these to a minimum.
Issues relating to the environmental impact during the construction and operational phases of the port rehabilitation
component of the project are summarized in the following Tables (see overleaf):
31



PART IV - ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
This section sets out mitigation measures and a monitoring plan for the identified environmental risks presented in
the previous section.
Environmental Risks and Mitigation Measures
A summary of the primary and secondary environmental risks associated with the physical development components
of the project, plus proposed mitigation measures, is presented overleaf in Table 1. This environmental risk
assessment attempts to define the wider environmental impact of the project components, particularly with regard to
any increase in fishing activities (both in the marine and freshwater lake fisheries) and economic activities resulting
from rehabilitation of the ports and the development of aquaculture facilities. These are in line with the key
environmental issues that the project is attempting to address, as detailed in Part III, namely:
*  Over-Fishing and Depletion of Ocean Demersal Stocks;
*  Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lagoon Fisheries;
*  Over-Fishing and Depletion of Lake Ohrid Koran; and,
*  Pollution from Fishing Ports.
A summary of the environmental impact of the construction and operational phases of specific physical outputs of
the project, and the associated mitigating measures, and detailed overleaf in Tables 2-7.
Koran Aquaculture. The primary environmental risk from the Koran hatchery would be from the organic wastes
discharged from the hatchery. To mitigate this risk, the project would utilize specially formulated fish food
containing limited amounts of phosphorus, which would minimize the amount of phosphorus in the effluent
discharged into lake, and would construct a small purification wetland in the area between the hatchery and the lake.
The wetland or "pond" would function as a bio-filter, using specific plant and fish species that are able to utilize the
organic waste from hatchery operations. A plan for regular monitoring of water quality is being developed, and
technical assistance would be provided to hatchery staff for environmental management.
Shrimp Aquaculture. The hatchery's main impact would be the discharge of effluent into the sea in front of the
farm. To minimize the impact of this discharge, the project would construct a purification wetland from which
filtered water can flow into the sea. For the grow-out ponds, the soil would be tested for permeability and clay
would be added to seal pond beds and prevent seepage of seawater. Filter screens would be installed at the pond
outlets to prevent the escape of cultured shrimp into the wild. To prevent disease, strict quarantine procedures
would be used for new brood stock received by the project. In addition, the management practices described in a
document called "Codes of practice for responsible shrimp farming" issued by the Global Aquaculture Alliance
would be adopted by the project. Eventual sludge would be used as fertilizer in the adjacent agricultural fields or
dumped in one of the unused carp ponds first for some time to leach out the salt.
Sea Bass and Sea Bream Aquaculture. The wastewater from Sea Bass and Sea bream aquaculture will be treated
together and in the same way as the wastewater from shrimp culture.
Tilapia Aquaculture. This activity would be limited during the first year to small cage cultures in irrigation
reservoirs, and would be monitored very carefully by the Fisheries Research Institute. Fingerlings would be
carefully controlled by the FRI. Experience has shown that Tilapia cannot survive the winter in Albania so there is
no risk of accidentally introducing a non-indigenous exotic species into Albania rivers.
Carp Aquaculture. Carp has been stocked in reservoirs in Albania for many years and therefore there is no need for
the monitoring of environmental impact, other than to ensure that fish stocking densities are kept within acceptable
limits. This will be done by the Fisheries Research Institute.
32



Rehabilitation of Ports. Infrastructure works would be designed in conformity with all the relevant codes and
conventions. In addition, the project would install waste reception hardware and implement the FAO-IMO Cleaner
Harbors Program at each of the project sites in conjunction with the FMAs. The project would also introduce
receptacles for the proper disposal of wet waste that will go a long way in solving potential hygiene and odor
problems. Receptacles would also be provided for hazardous solid wastes, such as starter batteries, oil filters, and
oily rags.
Monitoring Plan for Key Environmental Risks
Over-fishing of Marine, Lagoon and Freshwater Lake Fish Resources. The project aims to establish a network of
Fishery Management Associations (FMAs). One of their primary functions will be to co-manage, with the state, the
fish resources. The FMAs will therefore be responsible for implementing and enforcing the amended Law on
Aquaculture and Fisheries and its related regulations. Monitoring indicators for the environmental management plan
include the following:
*  Data on fish landings (by species, gear type, and zone)
*  Trade statistics (fish exports)
*  FMA records (membership fees, port dues paid, number of foreign vessels visiting poIts etc)
*  Vessel registry and number of licenses issued, and local employment records
*  Number of new regulations and local bye-laws to co-manage resources
*  Number of infringements of local fisheries regulations and bye-laws, and associated prosecutions
*  Monitoring, Control and Surveillance records
A fundamental aim of the project is to build up the capacity within the fishing communities themselves, through the
establishment of FMAs, to co-manage their fish resources. The project will be providing on-going support to the
FMAs, and regular monitoring of the above indicators will therefore be the responsibility of the National
Coordinators and Regional Promoters working with the FMAs.
Pollution from Ports. The FMAs will monitor the handling of waste via the reception facilities provided under the
project. It will be an integral part of their management of port facilities. Port management plans will be prepared for
each port detailing environmental monitoring indicators.
Restocking of Koran on Lake Ohrid. The effluent of the purification wetland will be analyzed for Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD) according to standard methods every 2 months throughout the year. Monitoring equipment
will be provided under the project. The technical personnel of the Lin hatchery will be trained in BOD analysis by
the consultant from the Hydrobiological Institute in Ohrid who will assist the project. Monitoring of the
effectiveness of the restocking program will be assessed through the tagging program that will be carried out as part
of the Koran restocking component.
Kavaja Fish and Shrimp Farm. The effluent from the Kavaja fish and shrimp farm will be analyzed and monitored
in the same way and with the same frequency as the effluent from the hatchery at Lin.
33






TABLE 1: Summary of Primary & Secondary Environmental Risks of the Project Components and Long-Term Mitigation Plan
Environmental       Type of Impact         Overall Significance of                            Mitigation Measures
Parameter                                  Potential Impact
Direct     Indirect   Low   Moderate   High_
[1] Over-           X                                        X     Port facilities will not be expanded. Existing facilities rehabilitated for safety and
exploitation of                                                    hygiene purposes only. Only set nets will be provided. Stock assessment to re-start
fish stocks                                                        through Fisheries Management Associations. Closed seasons and areas to be
introduced.
[2] Capture of      X                                        X     Co-management plans will aim to limit environmental damage by trawlers and impact
non-target                                                         on the coastal zone/ecologically sensitive areas.
species
[3] Habitat                     X                            X     Institutional strengthening through Fisheries Management Associations.
damage                                                             Fishermen sensitized to damage through resource management input. Limited
Monitoring Control & Surveillance equipment will be provided.
[4] Use of          X                                        X     Institutional strengthening through Fisheries Management Associations.
explosives                                                         Strengthening of legislation and links between DoF and enforcement agencies.
Fishermen sensitized to damage through resource management input. Limited
Monitoring Control & Surveillance equipment will be provided.
[5]Ghost            X                     X                        Institutional strengthening through Fisheries Management Associations.
Fishing                                                            Fishermen sensitized to damage through resource management input. Only set nets will
be provided under this project.
[6] Increased       X                              X               Stock assessment to be improved through Fisheries Management Associations. Non-
demand for fish                                                    capture fisheries to be strengthened through technical input. Other income generating
activities to be introduced (boating and diving tourism) to ease the pressure on the
marine capture fisheries.
[7] Visual          X                              X               Design of buildings to conform to local building practices. All buildings single story.
intrusion on                                                       The rehabilitation works will not affect existing breakwaters or other heavy
environment                                                        construction.
[8] Loss of         X                              X               Reclamation reduced to bare minimum to make up for lack of space at existing sites.
shoreline                                                          During construction, best construction site management practice to limit additional loss
habitat                                                            of habitat through contractor negligence. The rehabilitation works will not affect
existing breakwaters or other heavy construction.
[9] Water                       X                            X     During construction, best construction site management practice to limit water quality
quality                                                            degradation due to contractor negligence. In operational phase, installation of waste
degradation                                                        reception facilities in compliance with IMO regulations.
Outflow from aquaculture facilities will be treated by the construction of purification
wetlands.
35



Environmental        Type of Impact         Overall Significance of                              Mitigation Measures
Parameter                                   Potential Impact
Direct     Indirect   Low   Moderate   High
[10] Aquatic                     X                            X      During construction, best construction site management practice to limit additional
ecology                                                              degradation of aquatic ecology due to contractor negligence. In operational phase,
degradation                                                          installation of waste reception facilities in compliance with IMO regulations.
Previous trials confirm that introduction of exotic species unable to over-winter
[I I] Generation                 X         X                         No mitigation required at this stage as no fish processing will take place inside any of
of wastes on                                                         the port area that is managed by the FMAs.
industrial scale
[12] Generation     X                      X                         During construction, best construction-site management practices will be enforced to
of objectionable                                                    limit inconvenience (strict working hours).
noise
[13] Generation                  X         X                         No mitigation required at this stage as no fish processing will take place at inside any
of objectionable                                                     of the port area managed by the FMAs.
odors
[14] Generation                  X                  X                During construction, best construction site management practice to limit inconvenience
of increased                                                         due to construction plant. In operational phase, traffic will be more or less equal to
traffic                                                              current levels. Parking areas have been set aside at all the sites to improve neighbor-
hood traffic management.
[15] Increased      X                               X                Water storage tanks will be installed at all the sites to make up for inadequate
demand for                                                          infrastructure and to bring up the ports in line with current hygiene standards.
potable water
[16] Increased      X                      X                         Some ports will be provided with new transformers to replace obsolete equipment.
demand for                                                           Overall power requirements are for offices and small public lighting systems.
electricity
[17] Increased      X                                         X      Three stage septic tanks and percolation fields will be provided at each of the ports to
demand for                                                           handle sewage wastes.
sewerage
treatment
[18] Increased      X                      X                         Project requirements kept to bare minimum (planking on small lakeshore jetty). Fish
Demand for                                                           smoking at the lakeshore sites will only be approved when alternative sources
forest products                                                     I (plantations) of timber have been secured.
[19] Impact on                   X         X                         No mitigation necessary as most port and aquaculture development is inside existing
Cultural                                                             sites.
Heritage
36



Environmental       Type of Impact        Overall Significance of                             Mitigation Measures
Parameter                                  Potential Impact
Direct     Indirect   Low   Moderate   High
[20] Impact on      X                     X                        No mitigation necessary as improved port layouts and additional paving has a positive
Land Use                                                           impact on land use inside the existing port areas. Reclamation at two of the port sites
also increases land area for storage.
Aquaculture development only provides for the rehabilitation of existing disused
facilities.
No negative impact to existing wetlands. Enhancement of terrestrial ecology through
improvements in water quality in lagoons and development of wetland areas.
37



TABLE 2: Predicted Impact and Mitigation Plan - Port Rehabilitation at Durres
Environmental           Type of Impact              Magnitude of Impact     T          Duration              Overall                    Mitigation Measures
Parameter      Direct    Indirect            Low    Moderate    High       Short   Medium       Long   Significance
Construction Phase
Water Quality         x                           X                               X                          Low           Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil.
Aquatic Ecology        X                          X                               X                          Low           Unlikely to be any significant seabed habitats due to
________                                              location within commercial port.
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                          None          No flora/fauna of value present.
Air Quality            x                          x                               x                          Low           Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil.
Noise                  X                                     X                    X                          Low           Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Construction activities limited to normal working
hours, Monday to Friday.
Landscape &                       X               X                               X                          Negligible    None
Visual
Cultural Heritage                                                                                            None          None
Land Use                                                                                                     None          None
Traffic/Access         X                          X                               X                          Low           Best Construction Site Management Practice.
Operation Phase
Water Quality          X                   +                 X                              X                Moderate      Project provides IMO standard
Waste Collection System
Aquatic Ecology                   X        +      X                                                   X      Low           None
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                          None          None
Air Quality                       X        +      X                                                   X      Low           None
Slight improvement due to paving of the site thereby
reducing dust generation
Noise                                                                                                        None          None
Landscape &           x                    +      X                                         X                Low           None
Visual                                                                                                                     The appearance of the fishing port will be enhanced
through the tidying of the site & the provision of new
___________  ______  ____________  _________        _______  _____________  building   facilities.
Cultural Heritage                       l      l                    l_ l_|_|_None                                          None
Land Use              X                    +                 X                              X                Moderate      The new project layout will result in improvements in
the operation of the site
l__________  l_____  l_____  l___________  l______  l__________  |______  _____________   No    additional m easures necessary.
Denotes positive or negative impact
38



TABLE 3: Predicted Impact and Mitigation Plan - Port Rehabilitation at Shengjin
Environmental             Type of Impact             Magnitude of Impact    1Duration                        Overall                     Mitigation Measures
Parameter                                                                     I                             Signif icance
Direct   Indirect    +/-    Low   Moderate    High         Short   Medium    Long
Construction Phase
Water Quality          X                                     X                              X               Moderate       Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil,
working during calm seas.
Aquatic Ecology        X                                     X                                        X     Moderate       Best Construction Site Management Practice -
To limit the loss of aquatic habitat to the minimum
necessary to place quay wall.
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                         None           No flora/fauna of value present.
Air Quality            X                                    X                    X                          Low            Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil,
no large stockpiles on site, watering of access roads.
Noise                  X                                     X                    X                         Moderate       Best Construction Site Management Practice.
Activities to be limited to normal working hours,
Monday to Friday.
Landscape &            X                          X                              X                          Low            None
Visual
Cultural Heritage                                                                                           None           None
Land Use               X                          X                              X                          Low            Best Construction Site Management Practice -
To limit the disruption from construction equipment
and loss of storage space.
Operation Phase
Water Quality          x                   +                 x                              X               Low            Project provides IMO standard. Waste Collection
System
Fuel tank to be bunded
Aquatic Ecology                   X        + X                                                        X     Low            Some improvement may be gained through improved
water quality. Quay wall recolonization likely to be
limited
l_____                                                                    No additional mitigation necessary.
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                         None           None
Air Quality                       X        +      X                                                   X     Low            New port paving reduces dust generation
___________________                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~No additional measures necessary.
Noise                                                                                                       None           None
| Landscape &               |           |  +   |       |    X       l         l       |           |  X   | Moderate    X New buildings enhance appearance
Visual                      I                                                                                              No additional measures necessary
Cultural Heritage           l                                                                               None           None
Land Use                          X        +      X                                         X               Low            The new project layout will result in improvements in
the operation of the site
l_____l_____l_____l_ ___l_____l_____l_____l_____l_____|____|_____Noadditional______ ____________________measuresnecessary.______  NoNadditionallmeasuressnecessaryl



TABLE 4: Predicted Impact and Mitigation Plan - Port Rehabilitation at Saranda
Environmental           Type of Impact            Magnitude of Impact                Duration              Overall                   Mitigation Measures
Parameter                                         .            .                                       Signiricance
Direct   in          +/-   Low    Moderate    High    Short   Medium    Long  ._..
Construction Phase
Water Quality         X                                     X                   X                           Moderate    Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil,
working during calm seas.
Aquatic Ecology       X                                     X                                       X       Moderate    Best Construction Site Management Practice -
To limit the loss of aquatic habitat to the minimum
necessary to place quay wall.
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                           None       No flora/fauna of value present.
Air Quality           X                                     X                   X                              Low       Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil,
no large stockpiles on site, watering of access roads.
Noise                 X                                     X                   X                           Moderate    Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Construction activities to be limited to normal
working hours, Monday to Friday.
Landscape &           X                           X                             X                              Low       None
Visual
Cultural Heritage                                                                                             None       None
Land Use              x                           x                             x                             Low        Best Construction Site Management Practice -
To limit the disruption from construction equipment
and loss of storage space.
Operation Phase
Water Quality         X                   +                 X                             X                    Low       Project provides IMO standard
Waste Collection System
Fuel tank to be bunded.
Aquatic Ecology                  X        +       X                                                 X          Low       Some improvement may be gained through improved
water quality. Quay wall recolonization likely to be
.                                                     limited
.__________________  __________    ______  ____________                                                 No  additional mitigation  necessary.
Terrestrial Ecology  |                                                                                        None       None
Air Quality                      X        +       X                                                 X          Low       New port paving reduces dust generation
l________ l _________ l ____ j_l      _l_l_l_l_j                                                      No  additional measures necessary.
Noise             l         l                                                                                 None       None
Landscape &           X                    +                X                                       X       Moderate    New buildings enhance appearance
Visual                                                                                                                   No additional measures necessary
Cultural Heritage   i                                               ____l_l_l   l_ l_l___None                            None
LandUse                          X        +       x                                       X                    Low       The new project layout will result in improvements in
the operation of the site
l_______________________________________________ l____________ l_______ l______ l____l___l___l________   No  additional measures necessary.
40



TABLE 5: Predicted Impact and Mitigation Plan - Port Rehabilitation at Vlora
Environmental           Type of Impact            Magnitude of Impact               Duration              Overall                   Mitigation Measures
Parameter                                                                                             Significance
Construction Phase
Water Quality         X                                   X                    X                             Low       Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil,
working during calm seas.
Aquatic Ecology       X                          X                             X                             Low       None
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                          None      No flora/fauna of value present.
Air Quality           X                                   X                    X                             Low       Best Construction Site Management Practice -
Fencing of site, use of appropriate equipment,
immediate removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil,
no large stockpiles on site, watering of access roads.
Noise                 X                                   X                    X                             Low       None
Landscape &           X                          X                             X                          Negligible   None
Visual
Cultural Heritage                                                                                            None      None
Land Use              X                          X                             X                             Low       None
Operation Phase
Water Quality         x                   +               x                              x                 Moderate    Project provides IMO standard
Waste Collection System
| Fuel tank to be bunded
Aquatic Ecology                  X        +      X                                                 X         Low       No additional mitigation necessary
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                         None       Project includes landscaping items
I No additional measures necessary
Air Quality                      X        +      X                                                 X         Low        Some improvement due to paving of parts of the site
_   thereby reducing dust generation.
Noise                                                                                                        None      No major changes in activities are likely.
Landscape&            X                   +               X                                        X       Moderate    None
Visual                                                                                                                l
Cultural Heentage                                                                                            None      None
Land Use                                                                    I                               None       The new project layout will rehabilitate existing
l  l   l   l   l   l   l  l   j  l        | buildings-no new constructions
I                  l__ _ _ _ _  I_ _  l__ _  l_ l_ I__          _      l_ _                      I       I_ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   No  additional measures  necessary.
41



TABLE 6: Predicted Impact and Mitigation Plan - Demonstration of High-Value Marine Species Aquaculture, Kavaya (shrimp and sea bass/sea bream)
Environmental           Type of Impact             Magnitude of Impact               Duration               Overall                   Mitigation Measures
Parameter________   Direct   Indirect    +/-   Low   Moderate    High      Short   Medium    Long 
Construction Phase
Water Quality         X                           X                             X                              Low       Best Construction Site Management Practices. Fencing
of site, use of appropriate equipment, immediate
removal and proper disposal of spoil
Aquatic Ecology       X                           X                             X                              Low       None
Terrestrial Ecology   X                           X                             X                             None       No flora/fauna of value present.
Noise                 X                                    X                    X                              Low       None, site far away from residential area
Landscape &           X                           X                             X                           Negligible    Best Construction Site Management Practices.
Visual                                                                                                                   Rehabilitation of existing pond network.
Cultural Heritage                                                                                             None       None
Land Use              X                           X                             X                              Low       Development of existing disused ponds/
Operation Phase
Water Quality         X                    +               X                              X                 Moderate    Construction of purification wetland, and monitoring
of discharge water
Aquatic Ecology                  X       X                                 X                                   Low       No mitigation is planned; the specific kind of shrimp
would least likely affect the endemic species, and sea
bass / sea bream proposed are endemic.
Terrestrial Ecology              X                X                                                 X          Low       Existing abandoned ponds have no flora/fauna of value
.___________________                                                                    ______________  present.
Air Quality                                                                                                   None       None
Noise                                                                                                         None       None
Landscape &           X                    +               X                                        X        Moderate    Development of currently abandoned ponds.
Visual
Cultural Heritage                                                                                             None       None
Land Use                                   +               x                                        X         None       The project plans to use the currently abandoned state-
owned fish ponds
42



TABLE 7: Predicted Impact and Mitigation Plan - Development of Koran Aquaculture (Lake Ohrid)
Environmental           Type of Impact             Magnitude of Impact                Duration               Overall                    Mitigation Measures
..Direct    Indirect    +-   Low                      oderate    Hih        Short   Medium      Lon                                                ..................   . . .
Construction Phase
Noise                  X                           X                             X                              Low        Best Construction Site Management Practices. Fencing
of site, use of appropriate equipment, immediate
removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil.
Aquatic Ecology                   X                X                             X                              Low        None
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                             None       No flora/fauna of value present.
Air Quality            x                           X                             X                              Low        Best Construction Site Management Practices. Fencing
of site, use of appropriate equipment, immediate
removal of spoil, proper disposal of spoil, no large
stockpiles on site, watering of access roads.
Landscape &            X                           X                             X                           Negligible    None
Visual
Cultural Heritage                                                                                               None       None
Land Use               X                           X                             X                              Low        None
Operation Phase
Water Quality          X                                                                              X       Moderate    Construction of purification wetland, and monitoring
of discharge water
Aquatic Ecology                   X         +      X                                                  X         Low        Project would support restocking of endemic species.
No additional mitigation necessary
Terrestrial Ecology                                                                                             None       None
Noise                                                                       L                                   None       No major changes in activities are likely.
Landscape &            X                   +                X                                         X       Moderate    None
Visual
Cultural Heritage                                                                                               None       None
Land Use                                                                                                        None       None; the project aims to rehabilitate the existing
hatchery
43



REPUBLIKA E SHQIPERISE
MINISTRIA E BUJQESISE DHE USHQIMIT
PROJEKTI I ZHVILLIMIT TE PESHKIMIT
MINUTES OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTA TION
On Friday, June 15, 2001, it was organised the Public Environmental Consultation (hereinafter
called "Consultation") of the Albanian Pilot Fishery Development Project. The consultation took place
in the meeting room of the institute where are based the project offices, in the following address:
Projekti Pilot i Zhvillimit te Peshkimit
Rr. Muhamet Gjollesha Nr. 56
Prane Institutit te Kerkimeve Ushqimore, Kati III
Tirane
The aim of this consultation was to have the public opinion, reaction and recommendations
about the environmental impacts of the project activities. This consultation was organised after the
World Bank appraisal mission and prior to negotiations as a condition to be accomplished based in the
World Bank Guidelines.
The following procedure was set up and followed for a successful and effective organising and
completion of the consultation:
An advertisement was published in three national dai I y newspapers indicating the title of the
activity, the possible participants (specifying that it was an open consultation), date, time and place. A
copy of the advertisement is herein attached. Furthermore, PPU made a lot of notifications via other
ways of communications (telephone, e-mail, fax or verbal) to potential individuals, NGOs and
Institutions asking for their participation and feedback.
Participation in the Consultation was of a wide range from profession, institutional
representation and age point of view. A list of participants is herein attached. Copies of the
Environmental Assessment report, prepared by the World Bank appraisal mission and translated in
Albanian, were available all the time for the participants. Members of PPU staff were present during
consultation in order to explain and clarify the project concept and in details different issues conceming
the real physical interventions in ports/landing sites rehabilitation and aquaculture component and the
need for such changes/rehabilitation and interventions.
The general opinion of the participants was a total agreement on how were described the
possible environmental impacts and mainly the planning of mitigation measures. They expressed
themselves that the report was totally completed, with all the necessary explanations and clarifications
for different activities. The participants fully supported the project concept as being suitable for the
actual situation of fishery sector in Albania as well as in line with Albanian conditions and the
international standards.
Participants expressed their positive opinions on the mechanisms that have been established to
monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the environment, such as preparation of port
management plans and a periodic monitoring of the effluents from aquaculture activities. On the other
hand, the participants indicated that the mitigation measures planning would create more opportunities
for enforcement of the Law for Fishery and Aquaculture and support ive by-laws and local regulations.
Participants in the consultation expressed themselves positively for the link between the
physical interventions in ports/landing sites and the legal frame for successful irnplementation of these
activities. In this point a big success of the discussion was the explanation and understanding of the draft
amendments on the Law, especially the issues related to the transfer of port management to the FMAs
and the determining of the boundaries and activities within Co-management Areas.



The National Environmental Agency was not present in the consultation due to the availability
of its representatives that day. However, the PPU received its opinion on the Environmental
Assessment and the whole project concept. The NEA agrees on what the project is going to
achieve and supports its activities for every project component
Department of Fisheries                        National En  onnie*tal Agency
/7X
J/yctr     , ,f.'



A copy of the advertisement
Press Release on the
Public Environmental Consultation
NEWSPAPERS:
KORRIERI
KOHAJONE
EKONOMISTI
Please publish in two editions the following advertisement:
"Albanian Pilot Fishery Development Project" (AL-PE- P069479), financed by World Bank,
organises the Public Environmental Consultation for the Environmental Impact Assessment of the
project activities mainly in the following components:
a. Rehabilitation/upgrading of fish ports and landing sites
b. Aquaculture development
There are invited to participate representatives of NGOs working in the environment sector,
academics and researchers of the scientific research institutions, pedagogues, students and
individuals interested in the environmental issues.
Consultation will be held on Friday, June 15,200 1, from 9.00 till 16.00, in the meeting room
in the following address:
Projekti Pilot i Zhvillimit te Peshkimit
Rr. Muhamet Gjollesha Nr. 56
Prane Institutit te Kerkimeve Ushqimore, Kati III
Tirane
NOTE: The advertisement should be spread in a quarter of the newspaper page and published
in the editions of the dates 9 and 12june 2001.



List of participants
In the Environmental Consultation participated the following persons:
Name            Representative of
Roland Kristo            General Director of Fisheries
Ilia Poci                Teacher
Merita Makri             Specialist in the Department of Fisheries
Taulant Bino             Researcher in the Museum of Natural Sciences
Andrian Vaso             Aquarius NGO
Valbona Shutina          Local representative of Milieukontakt
Ferdinand Bego           Pedagogue - Faculty of Natural sciences
Suzana Diamanti          Aquaculture specialist in the Irrigation Project
Harrillaq Vjeri          Fishermen Association in Saranda
Mezan Mezani             Fishermen Association in Vlora
Selim Hoxha              Water Engineer, Retired
Granit Shehu             Rainbow NGO
Mihal Dhima              Besa Scout Association
Leke Gjiknuri            Pedagogue, PPNEA NGO
Gezim Hoxha              Specialist, Private Water Supply Company
ilia Mikerezi            Biologists Association
Enkelejda Velo           Specialist for urban wastes - ECAT
Stela Berisha            Pedagogue - Faculty of Natural Sciences
Elda Kamani             'Environment and us' Association
Luan Sejdini             Teacher, 'Protection of ethic values' Association



