Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/05/2011 
Report No.:  AC5908
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Bangladesh 
Project ID:  P111017 
Project Name:  Bangladesh Padma Multipurpose Bridge Project 
Task Team Leader:  Masood Ahmad 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 14, 
2010 
Estimated Board Date: February 24, 2011 
Managing Unit:  SASDT 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Roads and highways (90%);Flood protection (10%) 
Theme:  Trade facilitation and market access (50%);Access to urban services and housing 
(25%);Other economic management (25%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
1,200.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
560.00 
 Asian 
Development 
Bank 
615.00 
 
Islamic Development Bank 
140.00 
 
JAPAN: Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) 
400.00
1,715.00 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project objectives are to: (i) connect the south- western region to the rest of the 
country so as to stimulate economic growth by facilitating inter-regional, cross-river 
transport of passengers and freight, and transmission of natural gas, telecommunication 
and electricity in a cost effective manner; and (ii) build capacity of the Bangladesh 
Bridge Authority (BBA) to develop, implement and effectively manage large bridge 
projects in the country.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project consists of the following components:  
 
Component A:  Main Bridge  
 
This component will include the construction of the foundation and substructure, the 
superstructure and services, road viaducts and approach roads, and various bridge end 
Page  2
facilities. The implementation of the environmental management plan will be included in 
the contracts of main bridge and other contracts.  
 
Component B:  River Training Works  
 
To ensure that the river continues to flow under the bridge and control erosion near the 
main structures, a variety of river training works would be undertaken. The 
implementation of the environmental management plan related to the river training works 
will be in-built the river training works.  
 
Component C:  Resettlement, Rehabilitation and Livelihood Development  
 
This component will focus on the detailed design and implementation of the 
resettlement and rehabilitation programs associated with the main bridge, approaching 
roads, river training works, and support to the overall resettlement action plan.  This 
component will also aim to address any social impacts associated with the project 
construction, such as public health, conflict resolution and human trafficking.  
 
This component will also include the implementation of the EMF of the resettlement 
sites, environmental monitoring and development of sanctuary.  
 
Component D:  Supervision consultancies  
 
This component provides for consultancies for construction supervision and project 
management support, and monitoring and evaluation and supervision of the 
environmental management plan and social development assistance programs.  
 
Component E:  Project Management, TA, and Strategic Studies  
 
This component includes overall project management support, capacity building of the 
BBA, technical assistance, panel of experts, training, and various identified strategic 
studies.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The Project area is located in the south-central part (Munshiganj, Shariatpur, and 
Madaripur Districts) of Bangladesh. The specific area at Mawa side (north side of the 
Padma Bridge) comprises Lauhajong and Sreenagar Upazila in Munshiganj District 
whereas at Janjira Side (south side of the bridge) comprises Janjira Upazila under 
Shariatpur District and Shibchar Upazila under Madaripur District. The Project influence 
area will broadly cover a part of the  (a) the corridor of the Asian Highway 1 (Tamabil-
Sylhet-Sorail-Kanchpur-Dhaka-Mawa-Bhatiapara-Narail-Jessore-Benapole), (b) the 
corridor of Trans-Asian railway network and the railway missing link from Gendaria-
Mawa through the bridge to Bhanga-Kashiani-Narail-Jessore-Benapole and (c) the 
Charland in up and downstream of the Padma River. In addition, the network for utility 
connections (a) high pressure gas transmission line will link the Bakhrabad Gas Field to 
Siddirganj to augment gas supply then through an off-take valve at Langalbandh of 
Sonargaon Upazilla under Narayanganj District will be the source point for gas supply to 
Mawa, which will cross the Bridge and will follow up to Khulna for completing the 
proposed National Gas Grid, (b) high voltage power transmission line will source power 
from Siddirganj in Narayanganj district then Mawa and cross the River downstream of 
the bridge then to Khulna, and (c) optical fiber telecommunication cable.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Chaohua Zhang (SASDS) 
Page  3
Mr Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi (SASDI) 
Mr Gaurav D. Joshi (SASDI) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project area falls under the active Ganges and Brahmnaputra-Jamuna flood plain. 
The land type within the project area is medium low and low land. The project area does 
not include any ecologically protected and sensitive areas, therefore no major impact on 
wildlife are expected. However, the river Padma is an important migratory route for Hilsa 
fish and habitat of two critically endangered species namely, Gangetic Gharial and 
Dolphin.  
 
Around 200,000 trees, in addition to bamboo clumps and banana in homesteads, will be 
cut during site clearance for RTW, approach roads and railways, bridge, facilities and 
resettlement sites. Construction related impacts are expected to be mostly noise, dust, 
substantial spoil management (possible impact on charland), traffic congestion, change in 
land use due to filling of flood plains and construction works, blocking of floodwater 
flow and natural drainage path, storm water runoff during rainy seasons, loss of top soil, 
materials transport and disposal etc. During operation, major impacts are expected from 
noise and air pollution with increased number of traffic.  
 
The project is expected to have significant social impacts.  Major impacts come from 
land acquisition and involuntary resettlement. The project will affect 76,211 people in 
13,578 households, including 47,637 people losing farmland, 20,972 people losing their 
residential houses and need relocation, and 5,179 people who will suffer from loss of 
business.  There are about 2,882 people whose jobs as daily wagers along the river will 
be affected.  Additionally, the project is also expected to have public health impacts 
during the construction period.   
 
Page  4
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The project has the potential to open up the hitherto underdeveloped area of southwest to 
development and even land connectivity with India. Development of some roads around 
Dhaka could also help with the ease of congestion in the city. The unplanned 
development in the southwest may impact on the mangrove forest Sundarbans in long 
run.   The project will benefit local communities in the long-term.  The bridge is expected 
to improve the economic prospect for local communities.  The planned embankment will 
prevent the annual land losses due to flooding erosion by the communities living along 
the river.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Several alternative options have been explored and analyzed during project design. These 
include: without project scenario, alternative bridge location, alternative bridge designs, 
alternative transition structures and alternative river training works designs. The notable 
ones are the decision to use the RTW option which allowed the south channel to remain 
open, use of steel bridge which has resulted in fewer piers reducing the overall footprint 
within the river, and hence reduced adverse environmental impacts.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Since 2000, Bangladesh Bridge Authority (BBA) and other development partners (JICA 
and ADB) conducted several feasibility and environmental assessment of the proposed 
Padma Bridge project including alternative analysis of the proposed location. The EIA 
prepared by design consultant has been reviewed and updated by independent 
consultants. Five volumes of EA reports have been prepared by the Design Consultant: 1) 
Main EIA report; 2) Ecological Study Report; 3) Environmental Quality (Pollution) 
Report; 4) Impacts of Climate Change on Bridge Design; and 5) EA for resettlement 
sites. The Independent Consultant has also prepared a combined Executive Summary, an 
EA and SA reports.  
 
The EA reports address the above mentioned and other issues with specific efforts avoid 
adverse impacts, and where unavoidable, measures to enhance compensation and/or 
replacement. EA analyzes all feasible mitigation measures for all proposed works and 
recommends mitigation options for design and construction of civil works. These 
principles will be detailed through specific recommendations for design and construction 
of all civil works. These include avoiding certain types of locations # such as chars for 
construction yards, ceasing certain activities in periods that are important for fish 
movement # stoppage of piling in a particular section of the river during March-May, 
technologies that would reduce impacts, as appropriate. In addition, the EA has 
recommended the creation of a sanctuary (about 1200 ha) as compensation for the loss of 
charland and watercourse disturbance. Development of a plantation strategy for more 
than 400,000 saplings as compensation, as well as distribution of bamboo and banana 
plants through NGOs, is also provided for.  
 
Page  5
Environmental Management Plan: The EMP prepared as part of the EA describes in 
detail the measures needed to minimize, mitigate or compensate for expected 
environmental impacts from the proposed works. The EMP prepared for the project 
including details for implementation, including specifications for contractors, detailed 
description of activities, necessary arrangements and costs for all mitigation measures.  
Environmental Codes of Practice have also been prepared for common activities and 
expectations during the implementation of common activities # establishment of labour 
camps, etc. Institutionally, since the Contractor for the main bridge works are expected to 
have sophisticated environmental management systems, these codes would form the basis 
for their own construction environmental action plans that will be reviewed and approved 
by the CSC. The CSC is also required to have a team, including safety specialists, to 
oversee implementation of the EMP by the contractor. For measures that are not related 
to construction, services of specialist NGOs will be contracted by the BBA.  
 
Social Action Plan (SAP).  Resettlement planning has been going on for the past decade.  
Various field surveys have been conducted, following a participatory approach, involving 
extensive consultations and participation of the local communities.  A SAP has been 
developed to address the adverse social impacts under the project.  It includes the 
following,  
 
1
Resettlement Policy Framework.  It is developed in compliance with relevant GOB 
and Development Partners# policies, lays out the objectives, principles and steps for 
resettlement planning under the project.  It is for the planning purpose to address any 
unanticipated impacts or impacts that cannot be identified at the time of the project 
appraisal due to the engineering design approach or progress.  
 
2
Three component Resettlement Action Plans (RAP).  They describe in detail the 
respective impacts under different component of civil works, the entitlement packages, 
resettlement and a livelihood support approach and programs as well implementation and 
monitoring arrangements.  The livelihood program includes both short-term and long-
term assistance packages for a period of 10 years.  
 
3
A
Gender Action Plan (GAP).  It aims to translate the gender concerns and social 
vulnerabilities identified into actions to increase women#s participation in the project 
implementation, maximize women#s access to project benefits and increase women#s 
skills, incomes and participation in decision making.  
 
4
A
Public Health Action Plan (PHAP).  The PHAP is prepared on the basis of an 
evaluation of project health impacts and existing services in the project area.It aims at 
minimizing and mitigating the risks on public health due to the construction activities and 
contribute to public health services in the project areas.  It targets relocating households, 
the general public in the project areas, and the influx of population including the 
construction workforce.  
 
5
A
Charland Impact Monitoring and Management Framework.  Assessment from the 
Design Team indicates that the project would not have impacts on the charlands in the 
Page  6
project areas.  However, given the apprehension from the charland people, BBA has set 
up a monitoring mechanism to assess any possible impacts on charlands due to the 
project, develop and implement any required mitigation measures.  
 
6
A
Public Consultation and Participation Plan.  The plan documents the vigorous 
consultation process in the planning process, plans and arrangements to continue the 
consultation process through the implementation of the SAP.  
 
7
Grievance redress and monitoring.  The project will establish a two-tier grievance 
redress mechanism, including a Greviance Redress Committee (GRC) at local 
community level and a second tier GRC at project level that will be an independent body.  
Filing grievance cases in court is available under the law. The SAP describes the GRC 
composition, complaint filing procedures, GRC operation principles and procedures, and 
timetable for grievance redress.  BBA is developing an M&E system for SAP 
implementation, consisting of both internal and external monitoring.  The scope of work, 
methodology and arrangements are detailed in the SAP. The M&E setup will include a 
management information system that is under development.  The system will be GIS-
based and will maintain a record of all impacts, entitlements and compensation payment 
at household level.  
 
8
Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the SAP is estimated at 19,133 million BDT, 
equivalent to 279 million USD.  It covers program costs of all action plans in the SAP, as 
well as monitoring and implementation management costs.  The GOB and the World 
Bank will finance all SAP costs.  
 
BBA has established a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to manage the preparation 
and implementation of the proposed project.  The PIU has 4 units for Bridges; Roads and 
bride end facilities; River Training Works (RTW); and Safeguards (resettlement and 
environment).  PIU is headed by the Project Director. A Resettlement Unit has been 
established within the PIU.  It has already opened two field offices and is in the process 
of staff recruitment.  Environmental and Social Specialists as envisaged by the EA have 
been hired to strengthen the BBA oversight of implementation. A program on 
institutional strengthening of BBA has been developed under the project.  
 
BBA will be supported by other local institutions, including district administrations, five 
specialized NGOs to be contracted for implementation, the Ministry of Health And 
Family Welfare for the PHAP implementation, the Detail Design Consultant, 
Construction Supervision Consultant and an independent monitoring agency.  To monitor 
the implementation of environmental management monitoring plan (EMMP) to be 
executed by the Civil Works Contractor, PIU will appoint a construction supervision 
consultant (CSC). Environmental specialists of CSC, in coordination with ESU staff, will 
ensure the implementation of environmental management practices at each stage of the 
project activities. Services of specialist NGOs would also be contracted to support the 
implementation of the proposed sanctuary and plantation to compensate for the trees cut 
for the project, and facilitate the environmental management at resettlement sites. The 
independent monitoring and evaluation consultant also to be hired by the PIU will 
Page  7
provide timely information regarding the implementation of EMP # through the civil 
works contracts and through NGOs directly hired by BBA.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The EA and RAP Consultants have carried out several public and stakeholder 
consultation meetings, including those in the project area and in Dhaka, during 
preparation. A national consultation on the project#s environmental and social aspects 
was held on October 23, 2010. It is noted that earlier endeavors such as studies supported 
by ADB and JICA also included consultations with a range of stakeholders, including 
those in project area. A separate public consultation and participation plan has been 
prepared so that this activity can continue through the implementation phase.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
07/18/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
07/18/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/08/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
12/15/2010  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
07/18/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
07/18/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/04/2011 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Page  8
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  9
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Masood Ahmad 
12/14/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Shakil Ahmed Ferdausi 
12/15/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Chaohua Zhang 
12/15/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Gaurav D. Joshi 
12/16/2010 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sanjay Srivastava 
12/14/2010 
Comments:  cleared on understanding that comments on safeguards given on 06/29/2010 have been 
addressed during appraisal. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Michel Audige 
12/16/2010 
Comments:  Cleared. 
