Document of
The World Bank
FiLE ''
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7050-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
March 25, 1988
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)                              = 100 cents
US$1.00 (at appraisal, September/October 1987) = Rs3O (Official Rates)
= Rs (Free Market Rate)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ABD     -   Asian Development Bank
CMSD    -   Central Medical Supplies Department
CPR     -   Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CDS     -   Community Development Services
DDG     -   Deputy Director-General
DHC     -   Divisional Health Center
DHS     -   Demographic and Health Survey
FHB     -   Family Health Bureau
FP      -   Family Planning
FPASL   -   Family Planning Association of Sri Lanka
GHC     -   Gramodaya (village) Health Center
HRM     -   Human Resources Management
IEC     -   Information, Education and Communication
IRDP    -   Integrated Rural Development Project
IUD     -   Intra-uterine device
MDPU    -   Management Development and Planning Unit
MH      -   Ministry of Health
MLGHC   -   Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
MOH     -   Medical Officer of Health
MOPI    -   Ministry of Plan Implementation
MWATH   -   Ministry of Women's Affairs and Teaching Hospitals
NGO     -   Non-government Organization
NHDA    -   National Housing Development Authority
NIHS    -   National Institute of Health Sciences
PHC     -   Primary Health Care
PPF     -   Project Preparation Facility
RDHS    -   Regional Directorate of Health Services
SDHC    -   Sub-Divisional Health Center
TFR     -   Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA   -   United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF  -   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
WHO     -   World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................   .................... .    iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ........................                                       1
II.  SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES  ..............* ....................               1
A. Health and Population Conditions .........................               1
B. Policies and Programs.........             *...........                 . 2
C. Public Expenditure on Health ..............................              5
D. Sectoral Issues, Objectives and Strategy..................               9
E. Role and Rationale for Association Involvement............              14
III.  THE PROJECT ........................ .... ................. *9.............  16
A. Objectives and Design .............. .0.  ................. .           16
B. Summary Description ....... ........................... ...... .        17
C. Detailed Description         ..        . ........ ...........o.. .      18
Health Management Improvement ............ ............ .....        18
Management Development.  .. .............  ...........   18
Health Sector Policy Development.,.*.....*.*........               22
Service Delivery           ...........  ..... .....                23
Logistics*.*..#...e...... ................. .............. ......    25
Drug and Supplies Management ....................     ......       27
Vehicle and Equipment Repair and Maintenance..........             29
Family Planning .... 0.... .....................................     30
Population Strategy Development .......................            30
Service Delivery ..*..................... . ............O....* ....  31
Information, Education and Communication. .............            32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka from
September 14-October 2, 1987. Mission members were: Messrs. J. Greene
(Mission Leader), V. Kumar (Logistics Specialist), G. Sinclair (Architect),
W.J. Smith (Economist), J. Herm (Family Planning, Consultant) and J. Satia
(Health Management, Consultant). Ms. S. Patel assisted in preparing the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Page No.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS,
ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ..............                 34
A. Costs . ........................................                          34
B. Financing                              ....   36
C. Procurement               ........       ......................................  37
D. Disbursements .         .       ...................                      39
E. Accounts and Audit........................          .      ...            39
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                        ..                     ....  40
A. Status of Project Preparation            .        .                       40
B. Organization and Management                  . . ..40
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation              ..      .     .         41
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS   .          .........                ..    .      42
A. Benefits       .       .......................................            42
B. Risks ......      ..........................................              43
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION...                                       44
ANNEXES
1. Management Training Table              .      .     ...............       46
2. Draft Terms of Reference for Health Strategy
and Financing Study. ....      .     ........ . .52
3. Service Delivery Subcomponent Conceptsn            .    .                 6
4. Yearly Project Costs by Year Component and Type
of Expenditure                . . ..                                    87
5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                  .       .            89
6. Schedules of Key Actions by Components   ...............                  90
A. Management                         ....90
B.  Logistics .        .       ...........................................  91
C. Family Planning                    ....93
7. Monitoring and Evaluation                  ....99
A. Management........   99
B.  Family Planning .        .      .....................................    100
8. Selected Documents & Data Available in the Project File...               101
CHARTS
1. Organization for Primary Health Care    ................    103
A.  Overall Structure    .           ...........................    103
B. Regional Service Delivery    ..104
2. Organization Structure: Ministry of Health . .............    105
3. Organization Structure: Ministry of Women's Affairs and
Teaching Hospitals .................           .. . ........    106



- 113 -
4. Organization of Management Development and Planning
Units ................................. 6-00*0000000**4    107
5. Organization of Population Division, Ministry of Plan
Implementation ................................. .........      108
MAPS
IBRD 19985 Sri Lanka - Health and Family Planning Project.
IBRD 21017 Sri Lanka - Primary Health Care Complex Areas in Project.



I



- iv -
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowert                Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Beneficiary:             Ministries of Health, Women's Affairs and Teaching
Hospitals and Plan Implementation
Amount:                  SDR 12.9 million (US$17.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Project Description:    The project would strengthen management in the
Ministries of Health and Women's Affairs and Teaching
Hospitals by assisting the establishment of Human
Resource Management, Financial Management and
Management development and Planning Units. It also
would support: (a) health policy development through a
health strategy and financing study and operational
research and (b) improved service delivery in two
health regions where management improvements would be
tested and adapted for wider replication. In
logistics, the project would improve storage
facilities and management systems for drug and medical
supplies distribution and would strengthen systems for
vehicle and equipment maintenance and repair. In
family planning, the project would assist strategic
and service delivery planning and monitoring, as well
as communications efforts to generate additional
demand for spacing methods complementing a major
service delivery effort financed by the United Nations
Population Fund. The project would be carried out
over five years. It provides funds for civil works;
vehicles, furniture, equipment and supplies; training
and consultant services; studies; special service
delivery programs in two health regions; family
planning grants to non-government organizations;
production and dissemination of family planning
messages through mass media, project coordination and
incremental operating costs. The total project cost
is estimated at US$21.39 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of US$5.74 million (27%).
It includes US$260,000 in Project Preparation Facility
financing and US$100,000 equivalent in retroactive
financing, mainly for preparation of site plans and
surveys, working drawings, fixtures and fitting lists
for project-funded construction of drug storage



facilities and project coordination activities. A
breakdown of costs and the financing plan appear in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and
disbursement, anda disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
events appears in Schedule C. Two maps and the Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 7050-CE dated March 25, 1988,
also are attached.
Benefits and Risks:      The project would develop increased capabilities for
health management and planning; increased absorptive
capacity in the sector; more cost-effective, efficient
and equitable use of resources for health care, and
reduced fertility. These changes would in turn lead
to improved health status. Through reduced wastage
and losses, the logistics component alone would
produce annual savings estimated at Rs3O million or
more from the third year of the project. Both
individuals and society would benefit from reduced
fertility. Fertile couples would enjoy reduced risk
of infant and child mortality and morbidity. A 0.4
reduction in total fertility, to which the project
would contribute, would enable Sri Lanka to reach
replacement fertility five years earlier than
currently anticipated. The project faces two main
risks: possible faltering Government commitment to
implementing management reform once the initial
staffing effort is completed and possible Population
Division difficulties in forging effective
collaboration among concerned Government actors and
voluntary agencies for integrated family planning
services delivery and communications. To help counter
the first risk, the project provides a combination of
technical assistance and in-service training, for
which details have been worked out, at all critical
levels of the health management system. Annual
training plans will be prepared and reviewed with IDA
well in advance of execution. The establishment of
Management Development and Planning Units in both
health ministries also will help stabilize management
processes and provide mechanisms to adjust them as
required. Strengthening the Population Division's
capacity for planning and implementation will enable
it to coordinate more effectively with concerned
agencies on population matters. The use of workshops
as a principal mechanism to develop family planning
and communications strategies will promote inter-
agency consensus on goals and agency roles. Morevoer,
the mid-term project review will serve as a vehicle to
identify shortcomings in project assumptions and
operations and make appropriate course corrections.



- vi -
ProectCost:
Local   Foreign  Total
-------(US    u°)-
Investment Costs
Management
Management Improvement
Human resources development                    115       250     365
Financial management and budget control         67       120     187
Management development and planning units    89          270     359
Health sector policy development               270       690     960
Subtotal                                    541    1,330   1,870
Service deliver
In rastructure                                 949       568   1,518
In-service training                            298       171     469
Strengthening RDHS management                  618        47     665
Special programs                               767       333   1,100
Subtotal                                 2,449    1,302   3,751
Logistics
Drug and supplies management                    1,925    1,354   3,278
Transport and equipment maintenance               418       300     718
Subtotal                                 2,253    1,744   3,996
Family planning
Overall strategy                                  152       120     272
Service delivery                                  339       161     501
Information, education and communication        3,298        95   3,393
Subtotal                                 3,789       376   4,165
Project Implementation and Coordination /a           100         -      100
Total Investment Base Costs                     9,131    4,752  13,883
Incremental Recurrent Operating Costs
Management
Management improvement                             1,050         -   1,050
Service delivery                                     454        43      497
Subtotal                                  1,504       43   1,547
Logistics                                                877        -      877
Family Planning                                          127        -      127
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs                  2,09         43   2,552
Total Base Costs                                  11,639    4,795  16,434
Physical contingencies                          1,164       479   1,643
Price contingencies                             2,848       465   3,313
Total Project Costs /b                         15,651    5,740  21,391
/a Excludes $260,000 Project Preparation Facility.
7E The total cost net of taxes and duties (US$260,000) is US$21,130,000.



- vii -
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign  Total
----- (Us$  000)   -
Government                          3,871         60   3,931
IDA                                11,780     5,680  17,460
Total                              15,651     5,740  21,391
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY      1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
-(------------ (US$ million) -----------------
Annual              2.0    5.1    4.8    2.5    1.9    1.0    0.2
Cumulative          2.0    7.1   11.9   14.4   16.3   17.3   17.5
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not Applicable



SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       Sri Lanka's health and family planning indicators rival those of
many middle-income countries. Life expectancy at birth is 67 years for males
and 71 years for females. The crude death rate is 6 per 1,000 population.
Infant mortality is estimated at 32 per 1,000 live births. Regarding other
socio-economic indicators, per capita income is estimated at US$400 in 1987.
The adult literacy rate is 91% among males and 82% among females.
1.2       Between 1960 and 1982 the total fertility rate (TFR) fell by more
than a third from 5.4 to 3.4 and it is now estimated at between 2.8 and 3.0.
Age of marriage is already fairly high and unlikely to increase significantly
in the near future. For men it has remained reasonably constant at a mean of
around 28 years since the 1920s. Female age of marriage rose to 24.6 years by
1981 and probably remains close to that level at present. The decline in the
crude birth rate from 38 in 1941-50 to around 24 at present has challenged
traditional assumptions that high levels of per capita GNP are a prerequisite
to favorable demographic change. Moreover, Sri Lanka has succeeded in
developing a widespread and generally effective health care system at
relatively low cost to consumers.
1.3       However, the pace of improvement in Sri Lanka's population and
health situation has begun to slow. The rate of natural population increase
has remained virtually static at around 2% for some years; demographic condi-
tions now favor an undesirably higher rate of'future population growth.
Emerging inefficiencies and inequities, which are likely to intensify as the
result of persistent financial constraints, threaten the further development
of the health system.
1.4       The proposed project would address these problems by:  (a) streng-
thening health and logistics management (b) promoting financing and other
health policy and family planning strategy development and (c) increasing both
the coverage of and demand for family planning services.
II. SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A. Health and Population Conditions
2.1       Health.  As a whole, Sri Lanka's mortality rates and life expectancy
are far better than elsewhere in South Asia and close to those of developed
countries. Among some sectors of the population, mortality patterns have
features typical of developed countries. Circulatory system diseases were the
leading cause of death in 1986 followed by infant ailments, pneumonias, other
respiratory problems and intestinal diseases.



2.2       While lower than in most developing countries, maternal mortality is
around 70 per 100,000 registered live births, around five times the rate of
many industrialized countries. The precise level of infant mortality is
uncertain but exceptionally low for a country at as low an income level as Sri
Lanka. However, wide variations exist among districts and infant and child
mortality patterns continue to reflect the influences of poverty, an adverse
physical environment and still relatively high fertility levels,among some
segments or the population.
2.3       Trauma, malaria, respiratory diseases and intestinal infections were
the leading causes of hospitalization in 1986. The level of infectious
diarrhoeal diseases has declined only modestly over the last 25 years despite
sizeable water, drainage and sanitation investments. Malaria morbidity and
mortality registered significant declines in 1975-81, but have increased
substantially since then. Moreover, there is considerable public resistance
to domiciliary spraying of malathion in focal areas. Malnutrition continues
to be a major and possibly increasing problem, particularly for preschool
children and pregnant women.
2.4       Population.  Sri Lanka's population is currently estimated at 16.3
million. The crude birth rate (see para. 1.2) has fallen only slightly in the
past decade. The crude death rate is now close to its projected low point of
5.5 per 1,000 population. The resultant high rate of natural increase has
been mitigated by substantial net emigration to produce an average annual
population growth rate of 1.7% in 1973-85; However, emigration may well fall
in the future as job opportunities abroad continue to decline. Moreover, the
proportion of women of child-bearing age is expected to continue to increase
over the next 25 years, rising from 23.8% in 1971 to an estimated 27.2% in
2010, before beginning to decline. Present family size is around six; desired
family size is relatively low, with a national mean of 3.7 and a median of 2.9
children per ever-married woman.
2.5       Alternative population projections show that the population would
increase to more than 36 million by 2025 under constant fertility. Under the
most optimistic scenario, with fertility declining to replacement level by
1990, the population would rise to nearly 26 million by 2025. With moderate
fertility decline, the population would grow to 27.3 million by that year.
Under all three scenarios the working age population would increase to 13.5
million by the year 2000 and between 17 and 22 million by 2025, an enormous
employment challenge for the Government.
B. Policies and Programs
2.6       Health.  Sri Lanka committed itself in 1980 to the objective of
"Health for All by the Year 2000" and began to plan a new system of Primary
Health Care (PHC). The new PHC model includes improved rural health services
delivered by community and public health workers, midwives and volunteer
health aides. It emphasizes preventive measures, particularly through the
family health program which includes family planning. Full implementation
would require substantial physical investments as well as increases in train-
ing and operating expenditures. However implementation of the PHC model is
slow for reasons discussed in para. 2.35.



- 3 -
2.7       The Ministry of Health (MH) is responsible for all GoversAeni i ealth
and family planning services other than those provided at 11 tertiarycare
facilities managed by the Ministry of Women's Affairs and Teaching Hospitals
(MWATH). Intersectoral coordination takes place through a national network
headed by a National Health Council chaired by the Prime Minister with eight
other Ministers as members.  The council is supported by a National KeeltL
Development Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Health.
2.8       Health and family planning services are organized and managed
through 22 health regions outside Colombo serving populations ranging ij  size
from 220,000 to around 1.5 million. Regions are further subdivided intc 105
health areas. Urban and municipal councils are responsible for prevent.iv'e
health care in their areas. On estates and plantations, parastatal
corporations provide some basic care through their own dispensaries and small
hospitals. However, standards vary widely because of shortages of medical
manpower.
2.9       The Government intends to decentralize a wide range of public
services, including health, to sub-regional councils but the implications of
that impending change--and its timing--are not clear.
2.10      Present health infrastructure consists of 38 hospitals sihere
specialized care is available, 336 secondary-care hospitals (one third n,E them
small rural units) and around 545 other facilities for deliveries and other
simple in and outpatient services. Infrastructure below the tertiary iLevel
is now in transition to the new PHC model. As planned, the PHC system wi'il
consist of a network of 199 PHC complexes, each serving a populatior o,
60,000. Each complex will comprise a 60-bed Divisional Health Center (DEC)9
supported by three outpatient Subdivisional Health Centers (SDHCs) and 20
village-level Gramodaya Health Centers (GHCs) for community-based care, each
serving a population of 3,000. Charts 1 and 2 depict relationships between
existing service delivery facilities and structures and the new PHC syst-em.
The new PHC system faces the twin problems of integrating curative and
preventive professional staff and rationalizing existing facilities, many of
which are underutilized but remain operational because of community
pressure. Consequently, only eight PHC complexes have so far been developed.
2.11      Vertical programs operate for particular public health problems
including malaria.  The anti-malaria operation recently was strengthened to
improve spraying compliance though more community participation. Nutrition
efforts mainly focus on food supplementation. There also are programs to
expand immunization against major preventable childhood diseases and to manage
diarrhoeal disease in children.
2.12      Population.  The Government has long recognized the importance o£
the population factor in economic and social development. For 25 years Sri.
Lanka has had a policy commitment to deal with population growth. Since 1977,
the Government has pledged itself to take all feasible steps to curb pOPULa
tion growth, mainly through expanded service delivery activities emphasizing
voluntary sterilization accompanied by acceptor incentives. The Government
also has adopted tax policy measures explicitly to encourage a reduction in
desired family size and has continued to promote measures to enhance the



-4 -
status of women, including education. Nevertheless, a few pronatalist
incentives remain, such as child allowances for estate workers.
2.13      National family planning strategy is set by the Population Division
of the Ministry of Plan Implementation (MOPI), whose Minister is the President
of Sri Lanka. MOPI also coordinates family planning activities of non-
government organizations (NGOs), sets delivery norms for Government family
planning services and monitors their performance.
2.14      Family planning services are delivered mainly through a combination
of three channels. The Ministry of Health (MH) provides over 80% of all
contraceptive services through its health centers and hospitals with technical
support from its Family Health Bureau (FHB). Quasi- and nongovernment
agencies, principally private voluntary agencies, supply most of the
balance. MWATH provides mainly post-partum sterilizations on demand but does
not offer systematic counseling or other forms of contraception. Private
practitioners provide sterilizations and intra-uterine devices (IUDs) at
market rates. The large network of ayurvedic (traditional) practitioners is
not actively involved in family planning activities. Recent pilot efforts to
strengthen their role suggest that their interest is limited by lack of
motivation and training.
2.15      Government programs have a mandate to provide all forms of modern
contraception including temporary methods. However, performance data show
that sterilizations and, more recently, IUDs are provided more effectively
than nonclinical methods. NGOs offer both clinical and nonclinical services;
their capacity to deliver clinical contraception is constrained by limited
facilities and delivery points.
2.16      Despite uneven performance, reflected in annual fluctuations in the
numbers of new acceptors, the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) has
increased steadily from 32% in 1975 to over an estimated 60-62%, according to
a 1987 demographic and health survey (DHS) carried out with U.S. Government
assistance. Sterilizations account for around half of both the CPR increase
after 1975 and the current CPR, but most users are women who already have more
children than they desire. According to the DHS, temporary contraception is
divided two-thirds/one-third between traditional (rhythm, withdrawal, etc.)
and modern spacing methods. The mean age and parity of sterilization accep-
tors have remained static over the past few years at around 30 and 4, respec-
tively, for tubectomies and 31 and 3.4 for vasectomies. For temporary
methods, mean age of use has declined only slightly from around 27 to 26.7 and
parity has gone from 2.4 to 2.2. However, it will take considerable effort
even to maintain existing CPR levels, particularly in the face of a projected
net annual increase of 100,000 women of fertile age through 1993. Future
emphasis will need to be on temporary methods since a 30% sterilization rate
is relatively high for developing countries and the annual number of new
sterilization acceptors already has begun to fall substantially.



- 5 -
C. Public Expenditure on Health
Total Public Expenditure
2.17      Total Government expenditure on health was estimated at Rs. 2,400
million (about US$80 million equivalent) in 1986; it accounted for about 4Z of
total Government expenditure and represented a decline from about 12% in the
1950s, 10% in the 1960s and 8% in 1970. Due in part to increasing competition
from other sectors within the budget, the decline has contributed to a
deterioration in the quality of public health services. However, the relative
fall in public resources has to some extent been offset by the relatively
rapid growth of the private sector, which together with the public health
service was estimated in 1985 to constitute the equivalent of about 8% of
total Government expenditure. This redistribution from public to private has
maintained total expenditure on health at about the 1970 percentage level, but
raises problems of equity and access to services, both in outlying areas and
for low income groups.
Recurrent Costs
2.18      Recurrent public expenditure on health amounted to about RS. 1,860
million in 1986 (US$62 million expenditure). This represents some 5% of the
Government's recurrent budget (as opposed, for example, to 8% for education,
11% for defense and 3% to the national airline) - and about 1% of GDP - which
is about average for lower middle-income countries. The per capita equivalent
is US$4.15, compared with typical figures of US$5 per capita for the lowest
income countries, US$10-40 for middle income countries, and US$200-800 per
capita for developed countries. Table 2.1 summarizes the Government's
recurrent expenditure on health over the last ten years.
Table 2.1: RECURRENT HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURE - 1978-1986
Average growth
1978   1980   1982   1986   1977-86   1981-86
Actual Recurrent Expenditure on Health (in SLRs million)
Nominal                           522    763    900  1,860
Constant (1986 SLRs)            1,389  1,453  1,443  1,860    3.7%          6.7%
Per Capita Expenditure
(Constant 1986 SLRs/capita)        98      99     95    116      2.3%        4.5%
Health Recurrent As a Percentage of:
Total Recurrent Expenditure    5.2    6.0    5.2    5.7         5.9         5.1
GDP                              1.2    1.1    1.0    1.0       1.0         0.9



- 6 -
in real terms the Government's recurrent expenditure on health over the last
te7n vears has been rising slightly in per capita terms and has represented a
constent proportion of GDP.  However, most of the expenditure growth has been
on expensive tertiary care and relatively little on primary care, as is
l'Justrated below:
Table 2.2:  RECURRENT HEALTH EXPENDITURES, 1977-1986
Average Proportion of           Rate of Growth in
Recurrent Health Expenditure           Real Terms
1977-86                     1977-86   1981-86
1Level o.f Health Care     -                         %------------------------
Pr-imar7 Health Care                     16                         3          4
Secon mdari                              22                         5          7
Tertiary                                 48                         7         11
clized .Programs                     14                         -          4
2.1 7      hile the increasing cost of tertiary care is to some extent inevit-
a'Dle -iven changing patterns of settlement and morbidity, there is some cause
f'or concern that: (a) expenditure on tertiary care is growing at the expense
of resources for primary health care, in contradiction to stated policy; and
() Jiwe rate of growth of tertiary expenditure has been accelerating more
rapiply, reflecting the high operating cost of an increased capital stock.
it is difficult to analyse the appropriateness of these allocations
..aence of a clear framework of morbidity data, health status objec-
t-'vez  and a corresponding set of targets for the health care system as a
Spe  -  cssues
Most of the cost of the health service is in salaries (50%), and
dr-gs and medical supplies (33%).  Although MWATH spends all or most of the
'u.-ds alloated for tertiary care, there is substantial underexpenditure
;it'hin- `4, especially on community health services. In 1986 the Ministry was
unat'e bo send SLRs.470 million (US$16 million, or 27%) of the funds
al. ed to it. Underexpenditure was worst on general preventative and
famJly health (30% underspent), the malaria program (70%), and training
(50),  Such underexpenditure may be partially explained by the facts that (a)
p;reviea nve services are the most complex and difficult to deliver, (b) primary
car^e ilas relatively low status within the medical profession, and thus is
di--icut.  o staff and operates below capacity, and (c) 1986 was a
prti.s.u'tly bad year for the malaria program, as a fire destroyed major
maee--oan stocks. Nonetheless, it is a matter of concern that the areas of
gr@aest underexpenditures are those which are most critical to the delivery
o^ e-;: ec--;ive primary health care.



2.21      Of equal concern is the distribution of underexpenditure.  The MH
budget was seriously underspent on medical supplies (33% below allocation),
vehicle operations (20%), and repairs and maintenance (32%) - all areas in
which the service appears to be critically short of funds. The budget
allocations for fuel are already below those required to operate the vehicle
fleet at an efficient level. Similarly, building and equipment maintenance is
also severely underfunded - both on the basis of what should in theory be
required to maintain the capital stock and on empirical observation of the
state of disrepair of facilities throughout the country. Yet MH spent only
68% of its repair and maintenance budget last year.
2.22      These anomalies are partly because activity levels are sometimes too
low to effectively absorb the available funds (e.g. vehicle operations and the
malaria program), and partly because cumbersome administrative arrangements
and lack of financial autonomy make it difficult to utilize funds which are in
theory available to the health services (e.g. repair and maintenance
budgets). The proposed project would address both of these problems by
strengthening program and financial management processes.
Capital Investment
2.23      Public investment in the health sector has averaged about SLRs.240
million (US$20 million) annually over the last decade. This represents a
fairly constant 1-2% of total Government capital expenditure - except for a
period in the early 1980's when the new Sri Jayawardenapura hospital was
constructed at a cost of SLRs.800 million (US$35 million). The capital
program has been characterized by a concentration on investments in tertiary
and general patient care facilities which together account for over 70% of the
US$110 million equivalent spent during the last ten years. Apart from two new
hospitals, other major projects have included construction of a National
Institute of Health Sciences, the construction of secondary care facilities
under Integrated Rural Development Projects (IRDPs), and the beginning of
investment in PHC infrastructure, financed by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB). The capital program suffers from serious delays in project
implementation; for most projects, actual expenditures typically lag 3-4 years
behind the planned schedule, and in any given year the capital budget is
usually underspent by about 30%. Lack of adequate advance planning
contributes to delays; for example, designs, equipment lists and contracting
arrangements usually get under way only after the start of project imple-
mentation. Execution of the ADB project also was held up by difficulties in
developing an effective mechanism for involving communities in the process of
GHC site selection, construction and maintenance. Such a mechanism is now in
place and GHC construction has proceeded without further delays.
2.24      Planned investment in the health sector for 1987-1991 is currently
SLRs 6.8 billion (about US$200 million equivalent) - of which about 60% is for
tertiary care and construction of general purpose buildings - the balance
being evenly divided between investments in primary and secondary health
care. Some of the major projects are listed below:



-8-
Table 2.3: PLANNED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENTS, 1987-1991
Amount
Project                                      SLRs Million      US$ Millions
General Equipment Purchases                    2,150                72
Rehabilitation & Maintenance Project           1,170                39
Pharmaceutical Capsule Plant                     780                26
Major Hospital Improvements                      580                19
Staff Quarters                                   570                19
PHC Infrastructure                               440                15
Medical Research Institute Building              400                13
Medical Supplies Building                        335                11
Miscellaneous                                   405                14
Total                                       6,830               228
2.25      As with the recurrent budget, it is difficult to assess the appro-
priateness of these allocations without a strategy framework or targets for
the health service within which to evaluate trade-offs between competing
claims. However, it is interesting to note, for example, that the planned
US$50 million expenditure for three new buildings (pharmaceutical capsule
plant, Medical Research Institute, and medical supplies) would be enough to
finance the training and operations of 1,500 family health workers for the
next 20 years. A welcome innovation is the inclusion of a special project for
the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing assets, introduced to
compensate for past underfunding of maintenance. Estimated capital costs of
the new PHC system vary from around SLRsl,050-2,000 million (US$35-67
million), depending on assumptions about the number of existing health
facilities to be converted and the extent of and standards for worker housing
to be provided. The relatively low 1987-1991 PHC allocation reflects
Government judgment about likely availability of external aid, which is sought
for around two-thirds of PHC capital investment, and recognition that some PHC
design and implementation issues remain to be resolved. The project would
assist the Government to address those issues through the service delivery
subcomponent (see paras 3.26-33).
2.26      The recurrent cost implications of the proposed building program
also are substantial. Since each unit of health capital investment probably
generates annual incremental operating costs of around 30%, by the end of 1991
the recurrent Government health budget would have to grow at a compound annual
rate of 8.2% only to meet the implicit recurrent costs of the additional
capital stock. On that basis alone, the Government should exercise
considerable caution about making major capital investments in health.
However, current domestic budget restraints and the absence of future donor
commitments to the sector are in any case likely to limit capital outlays over
the next few years. The program of policy and strategy studies proposed under
the project (see paras 3.23-25) will assist the Government to set appropriate
health investment priorities, determine their recurrent cost implications and



-9-
identify optional ways of financing them through domestic and foreign
resources.
The Role of Aid
2.27      Foreign aid understandably plays an important role in supporting
health sector investments and programs. However, it use has a distorting
effect--towards the provision of investment rather than recurrent funds,
towards uncoordinated, "patchy" patterns of expenditure and towards tertiary
rather than lower-level care. Aid supports about 30% of the capital program,
and only about 7% of the recurrent budget. This trend is being exacerbated by
the completion of a USAID malaria program which effectively supported
recurrent costs, particularly for malathion. Capital aid over the last five
years reflects the tendency to support tertiary care, which received 54% of
such donor assistance against 28% for PHC and 19%, for secondary care and
general health infrastructure. The capital-intensive nature of projects, such
as new hospitals and buildings, has two financial consequences. Apart from
biasing expenditure patterns, they also burden the Government with inevitable
increases in operating costs for the larger capital stock, although in the
last few years there as been a modest shift towards support for PHC facilities
in the aid program. These problems could be overcome to some extent if the
Government adopted a health strategy as the basis for its medium-term
investment program and aid support. The articulation of the strategy and
investment program would help redress the imbalance between donor preferences
and Government priorities.
Other Health Expenditure
2.28      In addition to direct expenditure through the health ministries,
GOSL also finances health projects and services under IRDPs, on agricultural
estates and plantations, through local councils, and through the Mahaweli
regional development scheme.  No comprehensive data is available, but in total
these seem to add about another 10% to both capital and recurrent expendi-
ture. In addition, there is very substantial private expenditure on both
medical services and medicines, and increasingly on patient services at
private clinics and nursing homes. Very little data are available on private
expenditure, but a 1982 study estimated that it may have risen to about 40% of
total expenditure--and has almost certainly grown since then. In addition,
there is sizeable (though declining) expenditure on traditional practitioners
and cures, estimated at about 7% of total expenditure in 1982. There is even
less data on private capital investment in the sector, but the proliferation
of private facilities suggests that some such investment is taking place. In
aggregate, it would appear that total health expenditure is currently in the
neighborhood of SLRs.3.5 billion annually, or about 2% of GDP.
D. Sectoral Issues, Objectives and Strategy
Health
2.29      The health sector needs to confront four major issues:  (a) manage-
ment and efficiency of public health services; (b) difficulties in implement-
ing the new PHC system as an effective vehicle to address health problems and



- 10 -
priorities; (c) the need for both explicit community health objectives, and
strategies to deliver the appropriate mix of services, and (d) how to modify
the health financing system for proper targetting of costs and subsidies.
2.30      Management and Efficiency of Existing Health Services.  Coordination
problems and planning weaknesses have hindered development of a comprehensive
national health plan and strategy. There is an urgent need for planning to be
broadened to encompass the entire range of health services. Moreover, the
distribution of resources and responsibilities between the two line ministries
concerned with health may continue to cause problems in allocation of funds
and staff, in coordination of planning and program implementation, and in
provision of technical support to lower levels of the health system.
2.31      Managerial and functional problems derive partly from an overly
centralized system and affect MH headquarters, field and hospital opera-
tions. For example, regional superintendents of health services have wide
responsibilities for public health, patient care institutions and technical
and administrative services, yet lack commensurate authority in such areas as
personnel and financial matters.
2.32      Shortages of key health personnel and their geographically
imbalanced deployment compound management problems. Attracting physicians to
regional administrative posts which preclude private practice is difficult.
Personnel tend to concentrate in districts with teaching hospitals while other
areas remain under-served with regard to doctors, nurses or both. Shortages
of technical support personnel such as pharmacists and X-ray and laboratory
technicians persist.
2.33      The existing pattern of health service utilization is badly skewed
by the bypassing of peripheral facilities and the underutilization of
secondary ones in favor of higher levels of care. A main reason is the rela-
tive deterioration of peripheral services because of staffing problems and MH
difficulties in spending funds available under already constrainted budgets,
accompanied by considerable expansion of MWATH institutions which have high
operating costs. A contributing factor is the excellent road network and
transport system which facilitate access to urban facilities.
2.34      Related problems affecting Government health services delivery
include poor and underfunded maintenance and replacement of equipment and
transport, weaknesses in the analysis and use of data from the health informa-
tion system and the need to improve management systems for drugs and
supplies. Inappropriate and excessive use of pharmaceuticals, particularly
antibiotics, is common as well as costly and harmful because of the develop-
ment of drug-resistant bacteria.
2.35      Primary Health Care.  How best to implement the PHC model has
emerged as an important MH issue. The Government has adopted the new PHC
structure in principle (see para. 2.6) and has begun redeploying resources
accordingly. However, it has been cautious about developing PHC facilities
because of financial and personnel constraints. Three major problems hamper
PHC implementation. First, management weaknesses have complicated efforts to
carry out strategic planning for PHC and analysis of how to adapt it to the



- 11 -
needs of particular populations or geographic areas. Second, delays in
executing the ABD project to build PHC facilities and train PHC workers reveal
a limited MH implementation capability derived mainly from overcentralized
management processes. Third, Government physicians trained in curative care,
who supplement low salaries with private practice, have little incentive to
take on preventive work unless properly compensated.
Health Financing
2.36      At the moment the Government bears the full cost of public health
services, with some limited cost recovery at the larger hospitals. At the
same time, fee-for-service care is growing, although there is almost no
regulation of the private sector. This has led to a number of emerging health
financing problems, most notable of which are:
(a) the growth of the private sector and the increasingly hazy distinc-
tion between private and public medicine as many "private" services
are performed by Government doctors using public resources;
(b) the quality of preventive and other primary health services has
declined, or failed to develop adequately for most clients because
Government spending has been biased towards hospital-based inpatient
care, while demographic and health trends indicate a rising focus on
chronic disease best managed on an outpatient basis;
(c) the inefficient utilization of existing facilities, as patients
bypass primary units and go straight to (more expensive) higher
level treatment while there is a lack of financial signals to
encourage use of the proper level of care;
(d) the incidence of costs and benefits under the current system is not
well understood, and may be mistargetted, as patients at the
periphery often pay for access to services which are supposedly
free, while better off urban dwellers receive expensive tertiary
care without charge;
(e) the apparently haphazard development of employer-sponsored insurance
schemes, pressure to privatize the insurance industry, and
Government deliberations on the possibility of national, or at least
Government employee, health insurance.
The issues are complicated by both the absence of enough data for objective
analysis and the political sensitivity of health financing issues. However,
the Government must move ahead on both costs and financing to make efficient
use of resources in the sector and to develop a health financing strategy
before the present momentum on private practice and insurance eliminates
important options. These issues will be addressed in the health financing
work to be undertaken under the proposed project (paras 3.22-3.25).
2.37      The most pressing need, however, is to ensure a proper allocation of
resources, and to confront the squeeze in resources needed to provide for Sri



- 12 -
Lanka's growing health care requirements. Basically, three things can be
done:
(a) increase the share of resources to the health sector;
(b) redirect resources within the sector to those areas which will yield
the greatest health benefit, and
(c) deliver a higher level of care with existing resources by improving
utilization through better management and less wastage.
2.38      How most appropriately to mobilize a greater share of resources for
the sector is a broader issue, which will be addressed partly under project-
funded health financing work and partly through the Association's wider
country dialogue. At the other extreme, efficiency and cost-effectiveness
issues are fairly straightforward (although difficult to resolve), and are
being dealt with under this project. However, determination of the appro-
priate share for the sector, and appropriate reallocation within it, require a
better understanding of (a) the objectives of the health care system, i.e.,
the relative priority of different types of care and different segments of the
population; and (b) the appropriate mix and level of services for cost-
effective delivery of the optimal pattern of care. Ground work for this
analysis will be laid under the proposed project, as described below.
Health Sector Strategy (and Planning)
2.39      Except for broad adherence to the Health for All Strategy, and
general statements to the effect that PHC is the leading priority, Sri Lanka
lacks a coherent strategy for the health sector and planning is limited to the
preparation of annual budgets and submissions for capital investments. This
situation is exacerbated by data gaps on morbidity, health status, costs and
utilization of services; as well as by the lack of strategic planning capa-
bility within the health ministries. In the absence of a clearly formulated
health strategy and plan, investments tend to be made on an ad hoc basis. At
the margin, new project proposals from the medical services are in fact almost
always for expensive tertiary equipment and facilities. Similarly, budget and
staff allocations tend to take place on the basis of the status quo, reflect-
ing more the existing allocations and relative political power of the partici-
pants than analytical assessment.
2.40      There is a pressing need to develop a quantitative understanding of
the nature of health care requirements and to define a more explicit strategy
for the health sector. Such a strategy would specify:
(a) the level and mix of services to be delivered;
(b) the mix of private and public agencies in providing services, and
(c) the desired distribution of subsidies and costs.



- 13 -
That process would naturally lead to a corresponding framework for allocation
of personnel and financial resources, and medium-term manpower and investment
plans for the sector.
2.41      A number of steps under the proposed project will address this
problem. One will be to start developing a data base through household and
facilities surveys and epidemiological and costing studies. Another will
support the build-up of institutional planning capability by establishing
Management Development and Planning Units (MDPUs), supporting the establish-
ment of epidemiologists at the regional level, and establishing health
management information systems. The Government also plans to undertake an
analysis of health care needs and total financial requirements in parallel
with the health data and financing work to be supported by the Project. The
project will support a program of measures and studies to improve the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the current systems for logistics,
service delivery and regional management.
Family Planning
2.42      Performance is still well below its potential, as evidenced by
considerable unmet demand and scope for generating additional demand for
temporary methods. A basic framework for more effective population management
is in place, but the program suffers from several major constraints. Field
workers need to carry out family planning activities more intensively and
systematically. Physical and manpower resources are generally adequate to
meet declining demand for sterilizations, but those for IUD insertions are
actually underutilized. Pills account for an unusually low proportion of
contraception and traditional methods remain popular with younger, low-parity
women. Although a National Population Steering Committee consisting of senior
line ministry officials and representatives of voluntary and donor agencies
meets quarterly, operational coordination remains weak among the principal
actors. This is due principally to lack of an agreed program strategy and
operational plans to carry it out combined with relatively weak MH service
delivery management. Improvements need to be made in three key areas:
program management and coordination, program strategy and service mix, and
demand generation.
2.43      Program Management and Coordination.  It would be desirable to
define and rationalize responsibility and authority for comprehensive national
programming, from planning through service delivery and performance evalua-
tion, which is now shared by the MOPI and FHB. Measures flowing from these
actions should result in a family planning work program that would delineate
specific roles for each agency in the population sector. The program should
take into account explicit demographic goals, which in turn should be trans-
lated into actions to monitor and evaluate performance. These would include
specific targets by method and geographical area to increase both the overall
CPR and the use of modern spacing methods. Family planning operations also
need consciously to take account of the characteristics, needs and preferences
of different ethnic and religious communities, particularly in terms of both
motivational efforts and available contraceptive methods.



- 14 -
2.44      Program Strategy and Service Mix.  Sri Lanka's family planning
program has grown organically rather than through an explicit strategy that
effectively integrates service delivery and support activities. It consists
essentially of a weakly coordinated mix of public and NGO programs. Alterna-
tive approaches are needed to persuade young, low-parity women to space and
limit births. One prospective strategy would be to increase the effective use
of traditional methods, recognizing their continuing popularity, while motiva-
ting a shift to modern child-spacing methods followed by sterilization when
couples achieve appropriate family size. Improved service delivery would need
to increase access to modern reversible methods and strengthen follow-up,
particularly to manage side-effects. On the support side, communication and
motivation efforts are needed to improve the use-effectiveness of traditional
methods (e.g., knowledge of safe period). The Government's role in such a
strategy would be to concentrate on those clinical methods that depend largely
on the health system--sterilization, IUDs and injectables.  High priority
should be given to increasing the role of the private sector, particularly
through commercial marketing channels, in delivering nonclinical contracep-
tives such as pills and condoms, building on the past accomplishments of Sri
Lankan social marketing programs. The role of NGOs needs to be strengthened
and an expanded and more collaborative operational relationship between them
and the Government needs to be developed to optimize family planning efforts.
2.45      Demand Generation.  Raising the CPR will require stronger motiva-
tional efforts because most of the evident demand for family planning has been
met already. Generating more demand will be critical, especially among parti-
cular segments of the society such as estate and industrial workers and
settlers in the newly opened Mahaweli areas.
E. Role and Rationale For Involvement of
the Association
2.46      The Association's overall role in the sector is to assist Sri
Lanka's efforts to: (a) reduce fertility to economically and socially
sustainable levels and (b) develop and carry out policies, strategies, and
programs which will effectively and efficiently deal with the country's main
health problems.
2.47      The Association's strategy to achieve the above ends involves a
blend of sector work, policy dialogue and lending. The Association's main
sector work to date has been a health and family planning sector report
completed in April 1986 (No. 5218-CE), which drew partly on the results of
earlier studies by the Association such as the one on determinants of fertil-
ity in Sri Lanka and Kerala. The sector report has formed the basis of the
proposed project, which is the first Association operation in the sector.
Through discussions on the sector report and the project design process the
Association has continued to pursue a dialogue on the need for improvements in
Sri Lanka's approach to management and operation of the health sector and
strategic health issues including financing and family planning. Representa-
tives of the Government have been fully involved in the design of the project
(see para 3.5).



- 15 -
2.48      Other donors have a more restricted focus than the Association.
Among bilateral donors, the Governments of Finland and Japan are currently
most active, the former with a major grant to rebuild Colombo General Hospital
and the latter with grants to construct drug storage and production facilities
in Colombo. USAID assistance to the malaria program is phasing out. Other
USAID support to the sector is confined to centrally-funded family planning
activities, mainly research, because of long-standing difficulties in getting
the Government to formulate project requests. Among the multilateral
agencies, as mentioned in para. 2.23, the ADB has financed some PHC infra-
structure, although its project is nearing completion. UNFPA is continuing
its support to family planning service delivery through the FHB, including
funds for contraceptives on a declining scale. It also has recently approved
two projects to support family planning in the estate sector and is consider-
ing a request to strengthen family planning demand creation through the Health
Education Bureau. WHO continues to support a wide range of activities,
including a full-time health management advisor and related short-term
assistance focussing on PHC planning and implementation. UNICEF is supporting
an extensive child-survival effort centered on immunization and diarrhoea
management.
2.49      None of the donors currently is seeking to engage the Government
systematically on institutional development or health financing issues but all
support the Association's efforts to do so.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Design
3.1       The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) strengthen management of the Government health system at central and
regional levels;
(b) increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the health
logistics system; and
(c) promote lower fertility and improved maternal and child health
through increased and more effective use of modern and traditional
methods of interval contraception.
3.2       To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project would finance
a combination of institutional development and operational support activi-
ties. The institutional measures address key health management and related
planning constraints, including those affecting drug supply, vehicle and
equipment maintenance, and strategic planning needs for fertility control.
They involve reorganization and strengthening of both health ministries along
functional lines as well as training and technical assistance. Studies and
surveys are included in the institutional development effort for two pur-
poses. First, they will foster review and refinement of management functions
and processes. Second, they will promote further development of health and
family planning policies, strategies and delivery mechanisms.
3.3       The project will fund health operational support in two health
regions, one with and one without access to a teaching hospital (see
para. 3.27-3.33). They were selected as pilot areas on the basis of having
representative health conditions, infrastructure, population characteristics
and management capabilities. The service delivery actions would reinforce
institutional measures by testing and adapting them into replicable,
decentralized models for primary health care delivery and referral. Project-
funded operational support for family planning will both promote and expand
the use of interval contraception through Government and private service
providers.
3.4       Results of the health management effort will be defined by
achievement of output and process targets including numbers and continuity of
trained staff, the efficiency and effectiveness of budget control mechanisms
and annual program plans. Impact objectives have been established for both
logistics and family planning. For logistics, these include reduced drug and
supplies losses and wastage and regular availability of drugs, supplies and
functioning equipment. Family planning objectives are expressed as specific
increases in the CPR and reduction in the TFR.
3.5       The project design responds to the sectoral issues discussed in
paras. 2.29-2.45. It results from extensive Government preparation work
managed by a high-level interministerial Project Preparation Steering



- 17 -
Committee consisting of the Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance and
Planning, MH, MWATH, MOPI and a full-time project development coordinator.
Local consultant firms carried out detailed analysis of health management,
logistics and family planning needs and made recommendations leading to major
design features. Their work was funded through a $260,000 advance from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The Steering Committee organized and
carried out a three-day workshop involving key Government and, for family
planning, voluntary agency personnel (and IDA staff) to transform those
recommendations into the proposed project.
B. Summary Description
3.6       The project, with base costs of US$16.4 million, would be
implemented over five years beginning in August 1988. It would consist of the
following main components:
(a)  Health Management Improvement (US$7.17 million base cost).  This
component will strengthen: (i) human resources and financial
management, and management planning and development through
institution-building measures; (ii) policy and program formulation
through studies and operations research, and (iii) PHC delivery by
testing and modifying the system, as necessary, in two health
service regions. It will support organizational development for
human resource management through training, consultant services,
microcomputers and additional staff; training, technical assistance
and additional staff for improved financial management and budget
control; technical assistance, vehicles and additional staff to set
up a Management Development and Planning Unit in each health
ministry; support to policy, program and management development
through studies and operations research, including a health strategy
and financing study; and strengthened service delivery in Galle and
Matale health regions through training, vehicles and their operating
costs, equipment, supplies, development of three PHC complexes on a
rationalized basis and 40 additional GHCs, and incremental staff.
(b)  Logistics (US$4.87 million base cost).  This component will
strengthen the Central Medical Supplies Department of MH to serve
both health ministries through construction and equipment of 8
warehouses, storage facilities at 7 hospitals and pharmacies at 3
major teaching hospitals; renovation of a central drug warehouse in
Colombo; 30 transport vehicles and their operating costs; training
in drug management at the periphery and consulting services. It
also will train pharmacists and physicians in better prescribing
practices to cut down on use of inappropriate medications. To
improve vehicle and equipment maintenance and repair, it will assist
the establishment of 14 mobile maintenance and repair teams for MH
and MWATH transport, including 14 vans, operating costs, equipment
and additional staff; training for around 500 drivers in both
ministries, and expansion of vehicle repair bays at the MH malaria
transport workshop.



- 18 -
(c) Family Planning (US$4.29 million base cost). This component will
strengthen strategic planning and monitoring for fertility control,
service delivery and information, education and communications (IEC)
through technical assistance and additional staff for the Population
Division; MOPI annual strategy workshops; training of around 2,500
traditional practitioners; minor renovation and replacement
equipment for family planning clinics at 740 rural health centers;
furniture, 2 microbuses and their incremental operating costs for
NGO clinics; production and dissemination of printed materials,
radio and television programs; support to NGO family planning
programs through grants for vehicles, staff training, and
incremental staff and operating costs, and a demographic and health
survey, including contraceptive prevalence/fertility, in the last
project year.
3.7       Project coordination, including repayment of the PPF advance, would
account for US$0.36 million in base costs.
C. Detailed Description
Health Management Improvement
3.8       The management component of the proposed project consists of two
subcomponents--management development and service delivery. The management
development subcomponent addresses four critical needs: human resource
development, financial management and budgetary control, organizational
development and health sector policy development. The objectives of the
component are to:
(a) ensure the availability of adequate numbers of trained personnel for
Government health work by reducing manpower shortages in key
categories, improving staff knowledge and skills and increasing
their motivation levels;
(b) improve financial management and budgetary control;
(c) strengthen planning systems and processes;
(d) institutionalize a process of continuing management improvement, and
(e) identify, test and implement measures for further development of
health services and their increased cost-effectiveness.
Management Development Subcomponent (US$2.92 million base cost)
3.9       To implement the management development subcomponent, the Government
will carry out a modest functional upgrading of the secretariats of both
health ministries at the deputy director-general (DDG) level and below. The
DDG, Administration, in each ministry will be designated as DDG for human
resource development with a new job description. In MH, the human resource
DDG will be supported by five directorates. One will be for compensation and
career development, incorporating the existing Directorate of Administra-



- 19 -
tion. Two will deal with employment for medical officers and nonmedical
staff, respectively. The other two will be for human resource information
systems and for employee relations. In MWATH, the human resources DDG will
have three directorates for these functions. A DDG post will be set up in
each ministry to head the new Management Development and Planning Units
(MDPUs). In MH, this will be through conversion of the DDG post for Develop-
ment and Planning. The MDPU in MH will have four directors: planning, health
information systems, management training and organizational planning/
operations research. In MWATH, two directors will manage those functions. An
additional DDG post for internal audit will be set up in each ministry. The
incumbent will report direct to the Secretary and be supported by the current
internal audit staff. To support logistics improvement (see paras. 3.35-
3.52), a new post of DDG for logistics established to whom the existing
directorates of Central Medical Stores, Biomedical Engineering and Medical
Technology and Supplies would report.
3.10      Charts 2 and 3 depict the present and proposed secretariat struc-
tures. The Government has established the new units and posts in both
ministries for human resource management, finance, logistics and management
development and planning under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
3.11      Human Resources Management (HRM).  This activity consists of two
elements: strengthening the institutional base for HRM and in-service
training. Reorganizing the HRM function will lead to establishment of human
resource objectives, policies and procedures which will improve practices for
recruitment, manpower planning, career development, training and performance
management in both health ministries. To achieve this objective, the project
will finance the minimal incremental costs of the secretariat changes for HRM
in para. 3.9, as well as 5 man-months of foreign and 6 man-months of local
consultants to train MH/MWATH secretariat personnel in HRM functions, 10
regional short-term fellowships and 180 person-weeks of local training. It
also would finance 8 man-months of foreign and 20 man-months of local consul-
tants and funds for studies in both ministries on aspects of HRM develop-
ment. These include cadre levels and compensation, career paths and
opportunities, HRM policies and procedures and recruitment procedures. The
project would establish a computerized human resources information system for
each ministry by financing 16 months of local consultants to carry out a
system study, specify the programs and train personnel in their use. It also
would finance for each ministry the costs of a computer and related furniture
and equipment, software packages and incremental staff costs and supplies.
3.12      The project would upgrade management capabilities and improve staff
performance and motivation through in-service training of management, profes-
sional, medical, nursing and some minor staff in both ministries. In MH, the
project would finance 55 course-weeks of training in facilities and personnel
management for all 30 superintendents of provincial and base hospitals,
medical officers and matrons who manage 110 other large facilities, 22
Regional Directors of Health Services, all Medical Officers of Health,
accountants, and administrators. A special feature would be project-funded
team training on roles, responsibilities and how to work collaboratively for
key staff of all regional directorates of health services which would bring



- 20 -
together institutional, primary health care and specialized health campaign
(e.g., malaria, tuberculosis) staff in one-week residential courses. In
MWATH, the project would finance 117 course-weeks of training in hospital and
personnel management to cover all key categories of staff as well as laborers
and clerks. Some managerial staff would be trained twice during the pro-
ject. In Galle and Matale health regions, where the service delivery sub-
component (see paras. 3.26-3.33) will operate, the project also will finance
short-term: (i) management training for 20 administrative officers and around
800 public health and nursing staff who supervise other personnel,
(ii) technical training for around 30 accountants and (iii) orientation/job
skills training for around 650 laborers and attendants.
3.13      The MDPUs of each Ministry would organize and schedule the training
program. The National Institute of Health Sciences (NIHS) of the MH would
carry out medical officer and hospital superintendent training and has the
capacity to do so. Accountants, administrative officers and clerks would be
trained by MH and MWATH secretariat staff, since the training programs would
deal essentially with procedures and office management. Clerks and laborers
would be trained on site through district staff supplemented by other
personnel as needed. The project would finance 9 man-months of regional and
16 man-months of local short-term consultant services and 8 months of short-
term fellowships in training techniques to support development of appropriate
training methodologies and curricula. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that by September 30 of each of project year the Government will
furnish for review and comment by the Association detailed work plans for
project-financed training for each subsequent calendar year.
3.14      The Government moved recently to remedy distortions between market
rates and current MH/MWATH salary levels, particularly for positions which
exclude private practice, through public sector pay increases which took
effect on January 1, 1988. Inequities between government and private-sector
pay scales have led to poor morale, high turnover rates and understaffing of
important managerial and technical posts. These include professional
positions at the secretariat level; managers of regional health services;
district health officers and preventive medical officers of health (MOHs);
hospital superintendents; radiologists, pathologists and biomedical repair
technicians.
3.15      The pay increases were recommended by a national Administrative
Reforms Committee and are to be implemented in two consecutive annual
increments. The salary increases differ by sector. Those for health are
relatively larger than for other administrative cadres and are expected to
involve restrictions on private practice by Government physicians, which are
to take effect in 1989.
3.16      Financial Management and Budget Control.  The current system of
accounting and budget control does not provide health managers with processes
or tools to ensure effective and efficient resource allocation to achieve
program goals. Constraints and limitations in the present system derive from
cumbersome procedures, absence of a goal-oriented budget, understaffing and
lack of inservice training.



- 21 -
3.17      The objective of this activity is to strengthen health management at
central and peripheral levels by designing and implementing financial manage-
ment and budget control systems and streamlining operational procedures. The
systems would include budgeting, resource allocation analysis and decisions,
financial and management accounting, financial information and evaluation of
financial performance as it relates to program outputs.
3.18      In addition to the organization changes in para. 3.9 and the in-
service training in para. 3.12, the project will finance 12 man-months of
foreign and 40 man-months of local consultant services to design and install
the new systems. The project also will finance the staff and operating costs
of a budget officer and internal audit teams made up of an audit officer, a
supervisor and two clerks for each of the regional health services
directorates, three regional audit teams for MWATH and the salary costs for an
MWATH accountant at each of 10 teaching hospitals.
3.19      Management Development and Planning Units (MDPUs).  Neither health
ministry currently has the internal capability to analyze its organizational
problems, respond to them and recognize emerging needs for future changes in
strategic and management planning because of the lack of clear guidelines,
defined roles and responsibilities for staff and work units and personnel.
The MDPUs will carry out organizational diagnosis to identify specific ways of
improving management structures in both ministries and would monitor the
results of such changes. Each also will undertake strategic program planning
and overall management planning for the concerned ministry, including the
organization of in-house management training for supervisors and more senior
managers. The MDPUs will play a particularly important role in helping to
define organizational responsibilities if, as appears likely, decentralization
of health services takes place over the next few years.
3.20      Basic organization of the MDPUs is described in para. 3.9.  Each
MDPU also will have assistant directors, planning assistants and support
staff. Each will establish a full-time advisory post to be filled for two
years at a time by a knowledgeable and experienced professional preferably
from the private sector. The project will set up a joint committee to guide
the work of both MDPUs, consisting of the secretaries and directors-general of
both health ministries, the MDPU DDGs, a representative of the Planning
Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning and two persons outside the
Government knowledgeable about health programs and management. The committee
will review annual MDPU budget and work plan proposals and quarterly program
progress reports. It also will suggest interim changes in MDPU emphasis and
direction as appropriate.
3.21      To help inaugurate and stabilize the MDPUs, the project will finance
12 man-months of foreign and 22 man-months of local consultant services
centering on strategic planning and development of management information
systems; 2 vehicles for MH and one for MWATH; the costs of 6 studies, and
incremental staff and operating costs. Two of the studies will support HRM
objectives by analysis of roles and functions of 7 key MH/MWATH staff
categories involved in service delivery at regional and local levels and
productivity and performance measurement. Others will include analysis of
MH/MWATH transport needs to rationalize the existing fleet and update



- 22 -
condemnation and replacement procedures and the feasibility of establishing a
National Institute of Hospital Management.
3.22      Health Sector Policy Development.  As described in paras. 2.29-2.41,
the Sri Lanka health sector is becoming more complex. Current policies do not
take full account of these developments and no mechanisms yet exist to
identify and analyze the main issues and propose policy options for Government
consideration.
3.23      The project will support a program of analytical work by MH and
MWATH to gain a better understanding of health policy issues and to develop
specific strategies for the sector. The purpose of these program will be to:
(a) build up a data base on health care needs, service costs, and
effectiveness;
(b) examine the impact of current financing arrangements on the levels
and distribution of services;
(c) propose options for revising the health financing system; and
(d) examine other operational aspects of the health services to identify
potential efficiency gains and improvements.
In particular the project will support a major study to develop strategy
options for the health sector. The study will comprise: (i) a household
survey to determine morbidity and health service demand patterns and determi-
nants of health service utilization, income effects on service use and
expenditure on health; (ii) surveys of health facilities and services, and
analysis of their utilization and costs; (iii) an epidemiological survey and
analysis of demand for health services; (iv) a study of the impact of
financing arrangements on the level of service, appropriateness of mix of
services, and the distribution of costs, benefits, and subsidies; and (v) an
analysis of the financial and distributional implications of alternative
health care financing strategies. (Draft terms of reference for the study
appear in Annex 2). Financing also will be provided for an operations
research fund to bring in expert assistance in support of a complementary
program of analysis of health service requirements and system effectiveness
within the proposed MDPUs.
3.24      The core study will be managed by a coordinator in the MH/MDPU,
supported by an expert advisor on a part-time basis. The specific surveys
will be contracted out to specialized agencies or consulting firms, with the
expert advisor assisting in design, supervision and anslysis of results. The
analytical work on health financing issues derived from the surveys will be
undertaken by a combination of outside experts and Government staff under the
overall direction of the study manager and his/her adviser. At the highest
level, a Committee of concerned secretaries, including MH, MWATH and the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, will provide policy guidance and serve as a
forum for discussion of results, with an interministerial Working Group (at
the DDG level) providing more frequent operational guidance and review.



- 23 -
3.25      It is estimated that the entire study of health financing issues
will take about 2-1/2 years, while the general program of ongoing operational
and strategic studies within the MDPUs will be spread over the project life.
Preliminary estimates indicate that the study of strategy and financing issues
will cost about US$0.45 million. In addition, US$0.5 million will be made
available for a general fund to support other studies on operational and
strategic issues.  Assurances were received at negotiations that:  (i) by
August 31, 1992, the health strategy and financing study will have been
completed under terms of reference and by personnel or consultants whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association; (ii) the Government will furnish the Association with the
findings and recommendations of each part of the study when completed; and
(iii) the Government will thereafter implement recommendations of the complete
study on which the Government and the Association agree. Assurances also were
received at negotiations that by September 30 of each project year the Govern-
ment would furnish for review and comment by the Association proposed work
plans from the next calendar year for project-financed health policy research.
Service Delivery Subcomponent (US$4.25 million base cost)
3.26      The health sector needs to develop cost-effective approaches to
reduce morbidity, increase efficiency in the use of existing resources and
reduce imbalances in access to PHC. At the periphery, the health system needs
to be rationalized and to focus on reducing morbidity. The current
institutional framework for service delivery is inadequate to achieve those
health policy objectives. The current PHC system design has not been
carefully evaluated; divergent opinions regarding its efficacy persist within
MOH. There are no mechanisms to adapt service delivery patterns to local
needs by modifying areas of geographic coverage, staffing numbers or skill
mixes and developing special programs responding to variations in morbidity
patterns.
3.27      The overall objective of the Service Delivery subcomponent is to
respond to the above needs by strengthening health services in the Galle and
Matale Regional Health Directorates (RDHS) areas. Galle, a lowland coastal
district, has a relatively well-developed health infrastructure with a
teaching hospital. The Matale RDHS area covers two districts--Matale and
Polonnaruwa. Matale, bordering the central highlands, has more widely
dispersed health facilities and personnel and is not served by a teaching
hospital. Polonnaruwa includes recently resettled areas of Mahaweli System
B. In addition to reducing morbidity and improving PHC in these areas, the
subcomponent will help guide further development of service delivery arrange-
ments at the periphery in areas both with and without ready access to
specialized tertiary care.
3.28      The specific objectives of the subcomponent are to:  (i) compare the
functioning of PHC complexes with the existing system in terms of services
provided and their impact on health status, (ii) provide a methodology for
development of cost-effective special programs for specific diseases which can
form an input to decentralized planning processes, (iii) provide pilot areas
to test project-funded management improvements at the field level,
(iv) improve service delivery to reduce morbidity at a faster pace and to



- 24 -
reduce imbalances in access to PHC in these two areas, and (v) contribute to
the development of broadly replicable models for further development of the
health delivery system.
3.29      The broad approach of the Service Delivery sub-component will be to:
(a) strengthen field level management by rationalizing health care
areas, improving financial and human resources management and in-
service training;
(b) strengthen management at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital in Galle
district by reorganization and development of a hospital management
information system; to provide a link between the hospital and other
tiers of the service delivery system;
(c) develop one PHC complex in each of the three service delivery
districts by maximizing the use, insofar as possible, of existing
health facilities as a more cost-effective option to developing new
DHCs and SDHCs;
(d) adapt the pattern for PHC service delivery to local needs and
implement it; and
(e) implement specifically developed programs for reducing morbidity.
3.30      In the first two years of the Project, emphasis will be on
developing necessary PHC infrastructure and implementing other subcomponents
of the project. In-service training will be initiated and MOH areas will be
rationalized. Health facilities and staffing will also be reviewed. The
remaining three years of the project will be utilized to monitor the PHC
complexes and the assess impact of an improved service delivery system.
Criteria for selecting PHC complex areas include morbidity and service levels,
availability of key staff, numbers and state of existing facilities, ease of
rationalizing services, performance in curative and preventive care, ease of
implementation and cost.
3.31      Based upon hospital statistics, malaria and intestinal infections
are the major causes of morbidity and insecticide poisoning is a major cause
of mortality in Matale RDHS area. In Galle, diseases of the respiratory
system is a leading cause of morbidity. A large proportion of children in
both areas is reported to suffer from malnutrition. Careful epidemiological
analysis is required to design special programs to reduce morbidity. This
analysis would take place in Galle and Matale/Polonnaruwa RDHS areas during
the first year of the project, at the end of which the Government will prepare
proposals for special programs. Assurances were received at negotiations that
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association will be prepared for the
special service delivery programs in Galle and Matale/Polonnaruwa RDHS areas
by August 1, 1989, and implemented thereafter.
3.32      In particular the project will support (i) construction, equipping
and furnishing of PHC complexes at Galewala in Matale, Medirigiriya in
Polonnaruwa and Nagoda/Udugama in Galle districts; construction of an



- 25 -
additional 20 Gramodaya (Community) Health Centers (CHCs) in Galle and 20 GHCs
in Matale-Polonnaruwa RDHS areas; (ii) formation of two additional MOH areas;
(iii) development and implementation of special programs; and (iv) reorganiza-
tion and refinement of a management information system at Karapitiya Teaching
Hospital. The parastatal National Housing Development Authority (NHDA)
successfully has carried out GHC construction for the ADB project (see para
2.23) and the Ministry of Health has Taken possession of 30 sites for initial
GHC development in areas to be covered by the service delivery subcomponent.
3.33      The benefits of the service delivery subcomponent are two-fold--
direct service and institutional. The direct service benefits can be measured
by reducted morbidity, improvement in access to PHC and trends in unit cost of
services at various institutions. The institutional benefits would have to be
evaluated qualitatively in terms of the objectives set. Annex 3 contains a
detailed description of the subcomponent, including criteria for special
programs and evaluation.
3.34      Table 3.1 illustrates relationships between management component
inputs, managerial actions and expected outputs.
Logistics
3.35      The logistics component consists of two subcomponents: drug and
supplies management and vehicle and equipment maintenance and repair. Its
broad objectives are to improve the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
Government health logistics by:
(a)  unifying multiple MH and MWATH logistics arrangements into a single
system;
(b) strengthening management systems for drug and supplies, demand
forecasting, procurement, distribution and inventory control;
Cc)  improving prescribing practices to cut down on inappropriate use of
medications, and
(d)  strengthening support systems for the maintenance and repair of
health vehicles and equipment.
3.36      Specific objectives of the component are to:
(a)  Increase requisition compliance for drugs and supplies from the
current level of 60-65% to around 90-95% at all Government health
facilities, thereby ensuring the regular availability of most
necessary drugs and supplies at service points;
(b)  optimize use of transport to save fuel and overtime pay and improve
transport and equipment maintenance, thereby reducing maintenance
down-time and saving costs of replacing serviceable equipment; and
(c)  reduce losses from shelf expiry, deterioration,  degradation, lack
of stock security and systems failure from the existing yearly level
of 10-15% to 3-5%. This will result in annual savings of at least
5% of existing annual expenditure (now Rs 620 million per year) on
drugs and supplies from the third project year.



- 26 -
Table 3.1: MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Project Inputs                Managerial Actions                   Expected Outputs
Improved Human Resources      Identify shortages by
Management Capability       locations
Reduction in
Human Resources Information  Attract people to                     shortages
System                      difficult positions                 of manpower
Study of recruitment          Streamline recruitment
processes                   process
Role studies                  Identify training needs,             Improvement in
In-service training           organize training                    in skill levels
Cadre Review                  Match posting of staff
Human Resource Information   to needs, rationalize                 Increase staff
System                      staffing take measures to           productivity
increase productivity
Financial management system  Link budget preparation to            Improved
Decentralized planning        plans, monitor expenditure           budgets
Financial management system  Control expenditure,
Internal audit                rationalize facilities              Cost control
and staffing
PHC complexes in Calle and   Implement, strengthen RDHS            Improved
Matale                      Office, monitor                      service delivery
Special programs
Evaluation of PHC complexes  Discuss policy alternatives,         Appropriate
Strategic planning            achieve consensus and               policies
Health policy studies         formulate polices



- 27 -
3.37      To achieve these objectives, the project would upgrade and expand
existing storage facilities and logistics management, augment the Medical
Supplies Department transport fleet, strengthen maintenance systems for
biomedical equipment and health transport and train necessary personnel.
3.38      Drug and Supplies Management (US$4.0 million).  The Central Medical
Supplies Department (CMSD) has principal responsibility to furnish drugs and
supplies to MH and MWATH facilities. However, due to problems described in
para. 2.34, a number of minilogistic systems have emerged within the health
system to service particular needs like those of the FHB and the specialized
campaigns such as malaria and tuberculosis control. Some partially use CMSD
services; others like FHB run a parallel system. Each system functions
suboptimally, reducing efficiency and increasing operational costs.
3.39      Problems are particularly severe at the MH Divisional Drug Stores
outside Colombo and at 7 of the 11 MWATH teaching hospitals. The 20
outstation Divisional Drug Stores are all poorly staffed with inadequate
management systems for stock control, distribution and resupply. Eight are in
run-down buildings or facilities with inadequate space and storage arrange-
ments. Most teaching hospitals also are short-staffed, weakly managed and
need better storage facilities.
3.40      To help overcome these problems, the project would finance
construction and equipping of eight new 6,000-ft2 MH warehouses (including
Galle, Gampaha, Madampe and Trincomalee) and renovation and expansion of the
main one in Colombo. For MWATH, the project also would finance cons ruction
and equiping of new stores with capacities ranging between 6,000 fti and
9,000 ft at five teaching hospitals outside Colombo and expansion of two
Colombo facilities. Provision of adequate storage space at these service
points will reduce CMS central storage requirements and help optimize
availability of stocks at intermediary distribution levels. Site surveys,
plans, preliminary floor plans, fixture and fittings lists and construction
cost estimates have been prepared for the nine MH drug stores and the seven
MWATH drug storage facilities to be built or renovated under the project
3.41      Distribution of drugs from central and divisional drug stores takes
place by a limited CMSD transport fleet and by rail. Railways do not have
adequate facilities for drug storage and handling, resulting in losses due to
breakage, deterioration and pilferage. The project will augment the existing
CMSD transport fleet by providing 20 additional 2½-ton and 10 additional 3½-
ton covered lorries for central and divisional levels. The additional
vehicles would speed distribution to all service points and cut down on
transit losses by reducing dependence on the rail system.
3.42      The major hospitals have no arrangements for repacking bulk
medications into standard dosages for patient use. Marketed drugs prepacked
in small dosages are up to twice as costly as bulk packs. Commonly used
liquids, liniments and ointments which could be easily blended in-house from
bulk materials are imported in finished form at very high freight costs. The
project will finance the construction and equipping of model hospital
pharmacies at three teaching hospitals outside Colombo--Galle, Kandy and
Jaffna--enabling these institutions to save costs by blending bulk ointments,



- 28 -
liniments, emulsions and mixtures and repacking medications into standard
dosages for patient use.
3.43      Overall management of the supply system is weak; current information
flows do not provide required data for correct demand forecasting and stock
control. The result is frequent tendering, erratic arrival of stocks and
absence of economies of scale. At any given time, CMS meets only about 60-65%
of the orders from institutions. The management system needs refurbishing and
computerization to rationalize demand forecasting and inventory control.
3.44      The project will finance 18 man-months of short-term foreign
consultant services in procurement, inventory management and stock control,
demand forecasting and distribution systems. The consultant will assist CMSD
in rationalizing these systems to improve logistics management and train
personnel on-the-job in their use. In addition, 12 man-months of local short-
term consultant services will be provided to establish a computerized informa-
tion support system and train the necessary staff. The project will also
finance the costs of two computers and related software development.
3.45      The medical supplies system has very few supervisory pharmacists
capable of providing technical advice on such topics as cost-effectiveness of
alternate drugs, drug equivalence and drug-storage arrangements. Technical
skills of other staff involved in drug dispensing operations also require
upgrading. The project would finance salaries and allowances and short-term
training organized through regional consultant services for a pharmacist to be
recruited and stationed at each of the 20 divisional drug stores outside
Colombo. The pharmacists would provide technical advice and guidance on drug
management to institutions in those areas. The project also would finance
short-term overseas training in drug management for senior CMSD personnel and
in-country training workshops for doctors in prescribing practices,
standardized treatment regimens and related topics.
3.46      The Government has developed but not implemented an essential drug
list due mainly to staff concerns, particularly at the PHC level, that some
listed drugs are inappropriate for regional morbidity patterns. A national
study is already under way to identify morbidity and mortality variations
among three broad regions of the country--coastal areas, central lowlands and
the highlands. Based on its findings, a revised standard drug list and
treatment regimen for common diseases will be prepared for primary health
workers. Establishment of standard drug lists and treatment regimens will
simplify demand forecasting at the periphery. However, because of financial
constraints, the study is proceeding more slowly than desirable.
3.47      Particularly at major hospitals, overprescribing is common.  The
problem has financial and technical dimensions. Overprescribing raises drug
costs. Prescribing of too many drugs for a single ailment and overuse of
antibiotics can have negative health effects, particularly as patients develop
drug resistance. Physicians do not receive pre- or in-service training on
economics and hazards of drug prescribing, drug interaction and prescription-
diagnosis relationships.



- 29 -
3.48      The project will help correct these problems through two kinds of
activities. First, it will provide funds to complete the ongoing
epidemiological study in one rather than two years by increasing the number of
field survey teams from one to three. Second, the project will finance three
months of consultant services by a regional expert to identify the specific
nature of prescribing problems at MWATH hospitals and MH facilities through a
survey, develop an in-service training program on prescribing practices and
train MH and MWATH resource staff for the program. The project also will
finance training workshops in prescribing practices for around 2,000 medical
personnel, pharmacists and dispensers in both ministries.
3.49      Vehicle and Equipment Repair and Maintenance (US$0.87 million).  The
present system of vehicle and equipment maintenance through combination of in-
house and private sector facilities is poorly organized, resulting in long
delays and unsatisfactory servicing of vehicles and equipment. The MH has
agreed to shift to annual private sector contracts for specific jobs, thereby
eliminating procedural delays. However, capabilities need to be upgraded for
in-house vehicle and equipment maintenance.
3.50      Vehicle Repair and Maintenance.  The project will support
development of a decentralized system of vehicle maintenance and management
for the more than 1,100 vehicles in both health ministries. It will finance
12 mobile repair teams, an average of one each for two MH divisions, and two
for MWATH to carry out preventive maintenance and emergency road service,
evaluate repair requirements, maintain quality control over work done by
private garages and establish and maintain a list of approved facilities which
meet established standards for price, quality and promptness. Included would
be 14 repair vans and their equipment, vehicle operating costs, and salaries
and allowances for 5-person teams for each van, consisting of a transport
engineer, 2 mechanics (electrical/mechanical), a driver-mechanic and a
helper. The teams would provide in-service training to around 500 drivers
from both health ministries to supplement 2-day workshops on routine
maintenance which the project would also finance. The 12 MH and 2 MWATH
repair teams would be supervised by the MH Director, Buildings and Transport,
and the MWATH Transport Officer, respectively. The project would also finance
equipment to provide additional repair bays at the malaria transport workshop
and expand repair facilities for spraying equipment in the antimalaria and
filaria campaigns.
3.51      Equipment Repair and Maintenance.  The project will upgrade
equipment repair and maintenance for both health ministries. It will finance
tools and equipment, short-term training and salaries and allowances for a
maintenance engineer at each of ten MWATH hospitals. The engineers would
schedule and carry out preventive maintenance, train operators in proper use
of equipment, develop and maintain a list of private repair facilities which
meet government standards and exert quality control over repair work.
3.52      The project will upgrade the Biomedical Engineering Unit which
repairs ME and MWATH equipment. It will finance equipment, including
essential spares, and tools and local training of four staff technicians for
three to six months each in electronics, welding and specialized painting. It
also will fund an in-house study during the first project year to classify and



- 30 -
inventory existing biomedical equipment, identify excess or irreparable
equipment, develop standardized equipment packages for primary and secondary
health care, develop an appropriate inventory of commonly used spare parts and
examine the feasibility of entering into service contracts or leases with
manufacturers to augment present procurement and repair arrangements.   The
project also will finance 6 months' regional technical assistance to organize
and carry out a training program for senior BEU technical staff and the
maintenance engineers.
Family Planning
3.53      This component consists of three subcomponents:  population strategy
development, service delivery and IEC. Its institutional objective is
Government development of a medium-term population strategy and improved
capability to plan, monitor and evaluate integrated service delivery and IEC
progress. Its output objectives are to ensure that by 1993: (a) at least 90%
of all persons seeking family planning services at Government or NGO
facilities get them on the same day as sought, against the currently estimated
70-75%, and (b) the IEC program will have effectively reached 90% of eligible
couples not currently practicing a modern contraceptive method, or around 56%
of all fertile-age couples. Only around 30% of fertile-age couples not
practicing modern contraception are currently estimated to receive targetted
family planning messages or information. The impact objectives are to bring
Sri Lanka closer to its goal of replacement fertility by helping the
Government to achieve a 0.4 reduction in the total fertility rate (see para.
1.2), by 1993, and to raise the prevalence rate for modern contraception from
40% to 50%, an increase of 25% over presently estimated levels.
3.54      Strategy Development (US$0.27 million).  The Government still lacks
an overall strategy which effectively integrates policies and programs in
sectors affecting population growth. Moreover, a sound program strategy for
fertility reduction needs to involve agencies with links to younger and there-
fore potentially important target groups like Mahaweli settlers, estate and
Free Trade Zone workers and students. The Population Division of MOPI (see
para. 2.13) has concentrated more on promotion of practical measures for
specific programs rather than on a broader approach to fertility goals,
although its staff numbers and skills are generally adequate for strategic
planning tasks.
3.55      To help shift Population Division priorities to strategy formula-
tion, the project would finance eight man-months of short-term consulting
services by an international population expert, a national demographic and
health survey (DHS) and six five-day strategy workshops. The consultancies
would help the Division set up a strategy framework and organize the strategic
planning process, including the first two workshops. The DHS would include
contraceptive prevalence and fertility. It would be carried out in the fifth
project year by the GOSL Department of Census and Statistics, which completed
the 1987 DHS. The workshops would take place annually, although two would be
held in the first project year. They would involve senior personnel from
Parliament, concerned Government ministries, NGOs and the education and
research community. The workshops would assist in the development, monitoring



- 31 -
and updating of the national population strategy by providing a forum for
achieving consensus and reaching decisions on key issues.
3.56      Family Planning Service Delivery (US$0.63 million).  Effectively
shifting to an emphasis on spacing methods will require strengthening of the
physical and human resource base to plan, carry out and manage family planning
(FP) service delivery programs. To strengthen the planning base, the project
would finance annual one-week workshops to review, monitor and revise opera-
tional plans of public and private agencies involved in FP service delivery.
Organized by MOPI's Population Division, the workshops would involve senior
staff of the FHB, which technically supports and helps supervise most MH
family planning activities, and of the MWATH Director General's Office.
Representatives of voluntary agencies in the population field and other
ministries with a collateral service delivery role such as Mahaweli Develop-
ment, Local Government and Industry also would take part. The annual docu-
ments from the population strategy workshops would provide the basic framework
for the development of service delivery plans. The workshops would be the
principal forum through which institutional roles, relationships and programs
get sorted out and confirmed.
3.57      The project also would finance improvements in Government and
voluntary-agency delivery systems to strengthen FP operational management and
to ensure that temporary contraception becomes available at least weekly in
all MH facilities and MWATH hospitals which do not currently provide such
services.
3.58      To bring traditional practitioners (see para. 2.14) into the FP
mainstream, the project will finance short-term in-service training by the
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine and initial contraceptive supplies for 2,500
ayurvedic docotors. Through NIHS, the project also would provide training in
contraceptive techniques and delivery for 150 Medical Assistants and 500
Junior Medical Assistants on estates managed by the two parastatal plantation
corporations.
3.59      The project would improve physical access to family planning
services by financing minor repair and equipping of 740 existing familiy
planning clinics in various types of MH facilities and the addition of space
for IUD insertions at two clinics of Community Development Services (CDS), a
voluntary agency. The project also would finance two microbuses for CDS
client transport and to carry out mobile clinics, as well as incremental
operation and maintenance costs of those vehicles.
3.60      The project would finance special family planning studies.  One
would take place in the first project year to determine more accurately the
numbers and characteristics of persons who seek but fail to obtain Government
family planning services and the reasons. Another study, in the second
project year, would involve market research on the pricing structure of
contraceptives to identify cost levels which would increase their market
uptake.
3.61      UNFPA is assisting the Government through a parallel family planning
service delivery project (see para. 2.48) which the IDA-aided subcomponent



- 32 -
will complement. The UNFPA project will (i) improve managerial and technical
capacity through training; (ii) expand the number of IUD and sterilization
clinics; (iii) improve the Government's family planning reporting/information
system and (iv) finance contraceptives on a declining basis. Coordination
between the UNFPA and IDA-funded service on delivery efforts will take place
on a regular basis through FHB and through the annual service delivery
strategy workshops.
3.62       IEC (US$3.4 million).  The IEC program in family planning has slowed
in recent years, partly due to termination of a UNFPA-funded project which
planned, coordinated and carried out IEC work. Wide consensus now exists
between Government and concerned voluntary agencies that IEC efforts need to
be broadened and intensified to meet fertility reduction goals and that the
Population Division of MOPI should take the lead in that process, particu-
larly regarding strategy development and program monitoring.
3.63      To invigorate the IEC effort, the Government has set up an IEC
Steering Committee under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
Its chairman is the MOPI Secretary; membership consists of senior Government
and NGO personnel involved in family planning. The committee meets at least
twice a year to review IEC plans and performance and promote coordination
among concerned actors.
3.64      To strengthen institutional capabilities, the project will support
the expansion of the IEC unit in MOPI's Population Division. For the Unit,
the project will finance the salaries of a mass media specialist and an
interpersonal communications/training specialist; two vehicles; audio-visual
equipment to document IEC activities, local short-term consultancies to train
IEC staff, advise on strategy formulation and help design monitoring
procedures; annual IEC implementation workshops for agencies involved in
family planning communications, and incremental operating costs. To ensure
adequate management of project-funded family planning studies, the component
also would finance a Research and Program Evaluation position in the
Population Division's Research, Training and Evaluation Unit. A chart of
current and proposed Population Division organization responsibilities appears
in Annex le.
3.65      The Unit will contract for a knowledge-attitude-practice (KAP) study
in the Mahaweli area during the first year of the project. The study's find-
ings will be used to modify IEC strategies if necessary and to segment target
audiences, as well as develop specific promotional and informational campaigns
and message concepts for family planning work. Populated by new settlers from
diverse socio-cultural and regional backgrounds, the Mahaweli is considered a
particularly difficult region in which to improve fertility behavior. The
project also will finance smaller audience research studies during the project
to monitor project impact and promote redesign of campaign messages.
3.66      Mass Media.  The project will finance development, production and
dissemination of family planning messages through printed and audio-visual
media to complement interpersonal communication efforts. Because of high
literacy rates and widespread rural access to radio, the mass media have
special roles in Sri Lanka as both information channels and legitimizing



- 33 -
influences on face-to-face messages. To make better use of already-designed
print material, the IEC Unit will inventory its existing holdings, recently
transferred from the Population Information Center at the Ministry of State.
The Unit then will conduct a review and selection workshop for concerned IEC
specialists to identify those materials which are still relevant and arrange
for their reproduction and distribution. The project will finance both the
workshop and the reproduction costs.
3.67      Decisions on new print materials financed by the project will be
made by the IEC Unit on the basis of guidelines from the annual workshops and
developed, pre-tested and produced under contract with local NGOs and
experienced commercial agencies for distribution by concerned agencies. These
materials in all three national languages are expected to focus on interval
contraception, including aspects of reproductive behavior promoting more
effective use of traditional family planning methods such as the "safe period"
and withdrawal. Materials to be produced would include around 2 million
pamphlets and booklets for distribution to couples and youths by Government
and voluntary agencies, around 10,000 information kits for Government and
voluntary-agency workers, and articles for newspapers and magazines. Sri
Lanka's high literacy rates (see para. 1.1) make print materials particularly
suitable for target audiences.
3.68      Through the Government broadcasting system, the project would
finance production and airing of an average of one 15-minute television
program and one 30-minute radio program per week and one daily 1-minute radio
spot message three days per week. The programs would be designed and
pretested by the Government radio and television broadcasting corporations,
based on guidelines from the IEC Unit.
3.69      The project also will fund two innovative mass media efforts.  One
is a special radio series broadcast by the Mahaweli Broadcasting System for
new settlers. Funds will cover program development and production costs, air
time and prizes for listener contests. The other is a pilot trial of
commercial marketing of audio tapes with family planning songs and messages
through commercial firms or voluntary agencies for which the project will fund
production and promotion costs and an impact survey.
3.70      Interpersonal Communication.  The project also will support training
and operational activities for interpersonal family planning communication.
One aspect will be training in communications management and production
techniques for IEC supervisory staff from MH and the leading voluntary
agencies in family planning. Around 5,000 MH and voluntary agency workers
also will be trained by Worldview International Foundation in audio-visual
techniques under IEC Unit contract.
3.71      A key actor on the interpersonal communication scene is the Family
Planning Association of Sri Lanka (FPASL), which has a successful history of
rural outreach through village volunteers. The project will assist FPASL to
expand its regular interpersonal motivation and service delivery follow-up
program by financing seven minibuses, 20 motorcycles, 250 bicycles, the annual
training of 3,000 volunteers, training and salaries for 42 additional full-
time trainers and monitoring costs. The project also will finance a similar



- 34 -
FPASL program specifically for new settlers in the Mahaweli area, integrated
with the wider Mahaweli mass media effort. The project will finance FPASL
training for 30 block and 400 unit managers, 150 community development
officers from the Mahaweli corporation and 10,000 village volunteers; five
vehicles, 20 motorcycles and 250 bicycles for FPASL supervision, IEC
materials; office supplies, salaries of 24 project staff and related operating
costs.
3.72      The project also will assist the Sri Lanka Association for Voluntary
Surgical Contraception to expand its family planning method counselling at MH
hospitals by financing three vehicles, furniture and audio-visual equipment
for 40 clinics, salaries of 40 counsellors and incremental operating costs.
3.73      To facilitate the flow and monitoring of grants to voluntary
agencies, assurances will be obtained at negotiations that NGOs and MOPI would
enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association for the use of family
planning grant funds under the Project.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.1       The total cost of the project is about US$21.4 million equivalent or
Rs 642 million. Base costs are calculated at US$16.4 million equivalent (77%)
and contingencies at US$5.0 million equivalent (23%). Foreign exhange costs
account for US$5.7 million or 27% of total project costs. Duties and taxes
amount to one percent of total project costs. Project costs by component
appear in Table 4.1 below. Yearly costs by component and expenditure category
appear in Annex 4. The health management component accounts for 44% of base
costs; logistics, 30%, and family planning 26%. Capital costs for civil works
amount to 26% of base costs; for vehicles, equipment and supplies, 12%; for
family planning grants to non-governmental organizations, 10%; for studies and
surveys, 8%; for special service delivery programs, 7%; for family plannaing
media production and dissemination, 7%; for training, fellowships and
workshops 6%; for consulting services, 5%, and for project coordination and
the PPF, 2%. Incremental recurrent costs amount to 16% of base costs.
4.2       Project cost estimates have been adjusted to March 1988 prices.
Civil works costs have been estimated on the basis of standard Government
rates for comparable buildings. Project costs also include provision for
30 lorries, 10 minibuses, 14 repair vans, 4 sedans, two four-wheel drive
vehicles, and 58 motorbikes at average unit costs of US$16,000, US$14,000,
US$13,000, US$9,500; US$2,000 and US$750, respectively. Costs are provided
for 50 months of short-term foreign consultants (average monthly rate,
US$15,000); 21 months of short-term regional consultants (average monthly
rate, US$3,000); and 105 months of short-term local consultants (average
monthly rate US$1,450). Training costs are estimated in the basis of
prevailing costs in MH for externally-aided programs. IEC materials
production and dissemination costs and studies costs and surveys are estimated
at current market rates.



Table 4.1
- 35 -
SRI LANKA
HeaLth & Family Planning Project
Project Cost Tables
I. Investment Costs
A. Management                                     (Rps. Thousands)                     (USS Thousands)
(i) Management Improvement                    Local   Foreign   TOTAL              Local   Foreign   TOTAL
Human Resources Development                    3450     7500    10950                115      250      365
Financial Mgt. & Budgetary Control             2000     3600     5600                 67      120      187
Mgt. Dev't & PLanming Units                    2666     8094    10760                 89      270      359
Health Sector Policy Dev't                     8100    20700    28800                270      690      960
Sub-Total                                   16216    39894    56110                541     1330     1870
(ii) Service DeLivery
Infrastructure                                28473    17052    45525                949      568     1518
In-Service Training                            8929     5130    14059                298      171      469
Strengthening ROHS Management                 13063     6886    19950                435      230      665
Special Programs                              23000    10000    33000                767      333     1100
Sub-Total                                  73466    39068   112534               2449     1302     3751
8. Logistics
Drug & Supplies Management                    57736    40609    98344               1925     1354     3278
Transport & Equipment Maintenance              9849    11700    21549                328      390      718
Sub-Total                                  67585    52308   119893               2253     1744     3996
C. Family Planning
Overall Strategy                               4546     3600     8146                152      120      272
Service Delivery                              10181     4844    15025                339      161      501
Information, Education & Communication        98935     2843   101778              3298        95     3393
Sub-Total                                 113662    11286   124949               3789      376     4165
0. Project Implementation & Co-ordination       3000         0    3000                100        0      100
Total Investment Base Costs           273929   142557  416486                9131     4752    13883
11. Incremental Recurrent Costs
A. Management
Management Improvement                        31511        0   31511                1050        0     1050
Service Delivery                              13620     1290    14910                454       43      497
Sub-Total                                  45131     1290    46421               1504       43     1547
B. Logistics                                   26324        0    26324                877        0      877
C. Family Planning                              3800        0    3800                 127        0      127
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs             75255     1290    76545               2509       43     2552
-- - . - - - - - -- - . - . - - ---           - -   - - -     - --              - - -   - - -    ............
Total Base Costs                             349184   143847  493031               11639     4795    16434
Physical Contingencies                       34918    14385    49303               1164      479     1643
Price Contingencies                          85438    13957    99395               2848      465     3313
............................                 ------   ------   . ------           -- - -   -- -     ......
Total Project Costs                          469540   172189   641729              15651     5740    21391
....... ......... =.====   ======   ======                                ======   ======   ======



- 36 -
4.3       Physical contingencies have been set at 10% for capital and
recurrent costs. They comprise US$1.6 million equivalent. Annual price
contingencies are as follows for 1988-1993: for foreign exchange expenditures
7%, 3%, 0%, 2%, 2% and 2%; for local cost expenditures 10%, 10%, 8%, 2%, 2%
and 2%. Price contingencies account for US$3.3 million equivalent or 20% of
base costs.
4.4       The foreign exchange component is based on estimates of 75% for ve-
hicles, furniture, equipment and supplies; 60% for consulting services; 74%
for foreign fellowships, 30% for civil works and 3% for IEC materials. The
other categories of items provided under the project do not require foreign
exchange expenditure. The foreign exchange element in incremental recurrent
costs is 5%, mainly for vehicle operation and vehicle and equipment
maintenance.
B. Financing
4.5       Of the total project costs of US$21.4 million, US$3.9 million (32%)
would be financed by the Government and US$17.5 million (68%) by the proposed
IDA credit, as shown in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
US$ million equivalent
Category                                     Gov't     IDA        Total
Civil works                                          0.25       5.30       5.55
Vehicles, furniture, equipment and supplies          0.42       2.27       2.69
Family planning grants to non-government
organizations                                       -         2.09       2.09
IEC materials production and dissemination            -         1.90       1.90
Studies and surveys                                   -         1.59       1.59
Special service delivery programs                     -         1.47       1.47
Training, fellowships and workshops                   -         1.31       1.31
Consultant services                                   -         1.21       1.21
Project preparation facility and project
coordination                                        -         0.36       0.36
Incremental operating costs                          3.22        -         3.22
Total                                           3.89      17.50     21.39
4.6       The incremental recurrent costs of the project, which the Government
would finance and already has included in its 1988 budget, would constitute
around a 1% increase in the annual operating budgets of the three concerned
ministries and would not be a difficult burden to bear, particularly in the
light of increased efficiencies and cost savings which the project is expected
to foster (see paras. 6.1-6.3). However, as discussed in paras. 2.36-2.40 and
3.22-3.25, the Government needs to address health strategy and financing



- 37 -
options systematically to ensure that future expansion of the sector is both
affordable and cost-effective.
4.7       PPF and Retroactive Financing.  The project includes US$260,000 to
repay the PPF advance (see para. 3.5) and up to US$100,000 equivalent in
retroactive financing from September 30, 1987, the completion date of
appraisal. Provision for retroactive financing will assist the Government
mainly to prepare site surveys and plans, working drawings and fixtures and
fitting lists for drug storage facilities to be built under the project (see
para. 3.40) and to defray the costs from January 1, 1988, of the MOPI project
coordinator and other coordination activities.
4.8       Local Cost Financing.  The Government will contribute US$3.89 mil-
lion equivalent (18%) to local costs. The Association will finance the
US$4.25 million in foreign exchange (20% of project costs) and US$13.25
million in local costs (62% of project costs). The level of Association
participation in local cost financing is justified by the project's key
importance to further development of the sector and its emphasis on
institution-building.
C. Procurement
4.9       Procurement arrangements and proposed IDA disbursements by category
of expenditures appear in Table 4.3 below. About 7% of total project costs
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB), 25% through
local competitive bidding (LCB) and 51% through other methods (with 17% not
being subject to procurement). Procedures would be in accordance with World
Bank guidelines "Procurement Under IBRD Loans ane IDA Credits." GHC
construction would be undertaken by the National Housing Development Authority
under procedures involving extensive local participation (see para. 3.32), or
through other means also satisfactory to the Association. Because of the
relatively small size of even the largest civil works (nine divisional drug
warehouses estimated to cost US$63,000 equivalent each), civil works other
than GHCs would be undertaken in accord with LCB procedures already reviewed
and found satisfactory to the Association.
4.10      Vehicles, furniture and equipment would be procured through ICB
insofar as possible grouped in packages of over US$200,000, except that:
(i) miscellaneous items valued at less than US$200,000 could be procured
through LCB under procedures satisfactory to IDA up to an estimated total
value of US$1 million equivalent; (ii) contracts for studies, surveys,
technical assistance and mass media production and its dissemination through
the Government broadcasting system would not be subject to ICB or LCB
procedures; and (iii) printed materials and items valued at less than
US$20,000 could be procured through prudent shopping with at least three price
quotations up to an estimated value of US$200,000 for items other than
printing materials. All Association-financed contracts to be procured through
ICB would be subject to prior review by the Association. Other contracts
would be subject to selective post-award review. Under ICB procedures, local
manufacturers would be allowed a 15% marginal preference or the existing
applicable rate of duties on the CIF bid, whichever is lower. All consultants



- 38 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS
ICB       LCB        Other      N/A       Total
---------------(us$ '000)
Civil works                          -     4,613        938          -       5,551
(4,409)     (891)                (5,300)
Vehicles, furniture, equipment 1,570          808          -       312       2,690
supplies                      (1,570)     (700)                           (2,270)
Family planning grants to            -          -     2,090          -       2,090
non-government organizations                       (2,090)                (2,090)
IEC materials production and         -          -     1,900          -       1,900
dissemination                                      (1,900)                (1,900)
Studies and surveys                  -          -     1,590          -       1,590
(1,590)        -      (1,590)
Special service delivery             -          -     1,470          -       1,470
programs                           -               (1,470)                (1,470)
Training, fellowships and            -          -     1,310          -       1,310
workshops                                          (1,310)                (1,310)
Consultant services                  -          -     1,210          -       1,210
(1,210)                1,210)
Project preparation facility         -          -       360          -         360
and project coordination /a                          (360)                  (360)
Incremental operating costs          -          -     3,220          -       3,220
Total                        1,570     5,421    14,088         312      21,391
(1,570)   (5,109)  (10,821)                (17,500)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Association
/a   Includes $260,000 Project Preparation Facility.
financed by the project would have qualifications and experience and would be
employed under selection procedures, terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, and in accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as an Executing Agency."



- 39 -
D. Disbursements
4.11      Disbursements will be for 95% of expenditures for civil works; 100%
of foreign and ex-factory local or 80% of local expenditures if procured
locally for vehicles, furniture, equipment and supplies, and 100% of expendi-
tures for training, fellowships, technical assistance, workshops, production
and dissemination of mass media materials for family planning, grants to NGOs
for family planning activities, special service delivery programs, studies,
surveys and project coordination. Withdrawal applications for expenditures
under contracts or purchase orders of less than US$20,000 equivalent and for
recurrent costs would be reimbursed against statements of expenditure; each
executing agency will retain supporting documentation for review by the
Association. All other disbursements will be fully documented.
4.12      The estimated schedule of disbursements appears in Annex 5.  It is
based on a five-year implementation period and a completion date of September
30,1993 with final disbursements by the closing date of September 30, 1994.
This schedule is three years faster than the standard disbursement profile for
Sri Lanka as a whole for the following reasons. First, civil works, which are
a principal cause of implementation delays, involve construction of simple
buildings to be completed during the first three project years. The major
construction elements are nine warehouses for which site plans and surveys,
working drawings and fixtures and fittings lists have been prepared (see
para. 3.40) and 100 GHCs to be built under management arrangements satis-
factory to the Association for which 30 sites already have been acquired (see
para. 3.32). Other hardware procurement is also front-loaded and project
software is designed for early and continuous implementation. Therefore, a
six-year disbursement schedule is justifiable.
4.13      To facilitate and ensure that adequate funds are available for
project implementation, the Government will establish and open a special
account for the project in The Central Bank'under procedures satisfactory to
the Association. The special account will be in US dollars for project cost
categories financed by the Association. The authorized allocation for the
account will be SDRs 600,000 (US$700,000) to cover four-month average
expenditures of Association-financed items and will be replenished monthly.
The account will be operated by the Secretary, Ministry of Plan
Implementation, or his authorized designee.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.14      The audit and accounts staff of each participating ministry and the
FPASL would maintain separate financial records and accounts for project
activities. Annual audits of project accounts by the Auditor - General or by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Association would be made available
to IDA within nine months of the close of each Fiscal Year. The chief
accountant concerned with the project in each ministry and the FPASL will
receive guidelines from IDA staff in accounting, auditing and disbursement
procedures.



- 40 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.1       The project was prepared by the MH, MWATH and MOPI with assistance
from IDA-financed local consultants under the PPF advance (see para. 3.5). To
promote a smooth start, conditions of project effectiveness would be staffing
of: Ci) the Deputy Director-General and all Director posts in the new Human
Resource Management, Finance, and Management Development and Planning Units in
both health ministries; (ii) two new professional posts in the IEC and one new
professional post in the Research, Training and Evaluation Units, respec-
tively, of the MOPI Population Division, and (iii) the Project Coordinator
post in MOPI. Job descriptions and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association have been worked out for all professional positions and consulting
services, respectively, proposed for project funding.  To help initial
implementation, the project will finance a three-day project launch workshop
to take place within three months of credit agreement signing and ensure that
middle and senior-level managers in the three ministries and concerned
voluntary agencies are fully familiar with the project design, processes and
expected pace of activities.
B. Organization and Management
5.2       Project oversight and coordination would take place through the
interministerial Steering Committee (see para. 3.5) originally set up for
project preparation, which now operates under revised terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association. The Government would second an officer of
the Sri Lanka Administrative Service to act as project coordinator and
Secretary to the Steering Committee, and would provide the Steering Committee
with staff support. The Committee would meet at least quarterly and would
serve as a channel for project-related communication with the Association. It
would: (i) review quarterly and annual reports of progress against annual
project budgets and work plans prepared by each participating ministry; (ii)
review and modify, as appropriate, and confirm proposed project work plans for
the coming year; (iii) resolve critical bottlenecks, and (iv) coordinate
technical assistance efforts for the two health ministries. The Committee
also would ensure speedy resolution of project coordination issues which might
arise from time to time and would ensure that mid-term and final project
evaluations (see paras. 5-9-5.12) take place on time.
5.3       A schedule of key project actions by component appears in Annex 6.
Government civil works for the project would be executed through two agencies
of the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction (MLGHC), whose
Minister is the Prime Minister. Construction of warehouses, other logistics
facilities and repair of Government health centers would be managed by the
health ministries, which issue contracts for such services. Renovation of the
two CDS clinics would be through a grant from MOPL.
5.4       The Director-General, Health Services, would be responsible for
health improvement and logistics components involving MH, including the
service delivery management subcomponent. MH staff training in management and
family planning would be organized and managed mainly by the MDPUs and MH's



- 41 -
National Institute of Health Sciences (NIHS). The Director-General, MWATH,
would be responsible for the organization and execution of management,
logistics and family planning training activities for that ministry.
5.5       Logistics activities would take place through the MH Deputy
Director-General. Logistics, and the MWATH Deputy Director-General, Technical
Services. Logistics coordination between MH and MWATH would continue through
established arrangements for monthly meetings of senior logistics personnel
from both ministries.
5.6       The Secretary, MOPI, would have overall management responsibility
for family planning subcomponents carried out through MOPI's Population
Division, including overall strategic and communications planning, support to
voluntary organizations and IEC implementation. The Ministry of Indigenous
Medicine would provide family planning training to its ayuruedic practitioners
through the office of its Secretary. The Ministry for Mahaweli Development
would organize and manage the family planning radio effort in that region.
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
5.7       The project coordinator (see para. 5.2) would have responsibility
for monitoring project implementation progress. He would prepare summaries of
detailed quarterly reports from each participating ministry or agency covering
project-financed construction, other procurement, training, staffing, tech-
nical assistance, service delivery and IEC activities, workshops, surveys and
studies, monitoring and evaluation activities and project expenditures. His
report also would highlight issues for resolution by the Interminsterial
Steering Committee. The reports would be reviewed and approved by the
Steering Committee and furnished to the Association.
5.8       Principal monitoring emphasis will be on achievement of the process
and uLtput targets already described for each component.  Evaluation of
project impact is more complex and would take place both at the project mid-
point, to guide any necessary course correction, and as the project nears
completion.
5.9       To assess the outcomes of project-financed management activities,
independent reviews would take place in the third and last years of the
project. These would seek to identify the extent to which project-funded MH
and MWATH management changes can be associated with better care management,
rationalization of facilities and staffing, retention of skilled personnel,
improved worker skills and motivation, greater cost control, reduced bypassing
of lower-level facilities and increased efficiency, outreach and effectiveness
of services. Annex 7a provides a suggested list of monitoring and evaluation
criteria for the management component.
5.10      In logistics, evaluation would take place in the third and final
project years to assess the increased availability and regularity of drug
supply, improved availability of health transport and equipment and cost
savings both from reduced drug losses and from lower patient costs through
better prescribing practices.



- 42 -
5.11      For family planning, evaluation will be through measured changes in
contraceptive prevalence and implied fertility (see para. 3.53) and changes in
knowledge, attitudes and practices (see para. 3.65). Subsamples of the KAP
studies will assess the influence of project-funded IEC activities on adoles-
cents and youth. However, these assessments also need to be supplemented by a
qualitative assessment of the extent to which performance of other project
family planning activities relates to these changes. As in the case of the
other two components, the assessment will be through an independent review in
the third and last years of the project. Annex 7b contains details of MOPI
family planning monitoring and evaluation responsibilities under the project.
5.12      Assurances were received at negotiations that:  (i) project
performance reviews, including management, logistics and family planning
assessments, will take place in the third and final years of the project under
terms of reference and by persons whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) that the findings and recommendations of
those reviews would be discussed with the Association within 90 days of their
completion, together with the Government's proposed action plan to rectify
problems identified by the reviews; and (iii) that the Government thereafter
would implement changes in project design and operations on which it and the
Association agree.
5.13      The project is expected to requre around 104 staff-weeks (SW) of
supervision, distributed as follows: FY88, 8 SW; FY89, 20 SW; FY90, 14 SW;
FY91, 17SW; FY92, 21SW; FY93, 12SW; FY, 94,9 SW, and FY95 7SW. This is
somewhat higher than the Asia-wide average of 11 supervision SW yearly, re-
reflecting resource requirements to ensure continued attention to institution-
building, the strategy and finance study (see paras 3.22-3.25) and the mid-
term and final evaluations.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The project would develop increased capabilities for health sector
management and planning; increased absorptive capacity in the sector; more
cost-effective, effective and equitable use of resources for health care, and
reduced fertility. These changes would in turn lead to improved health
status.
6.2       Corollary financial and economic benefits would arise from more
efficiently-run health operations. Although these cannot be realistically
quantified for management and service delivery, the net annual savings from
drug losses are expected to amount to at least SLRs 30 million after the third
year of the project compared to an investment cost of around Rs 125 million.
Savings through reduced need to replace vehicles and equipment, and their
fuller use, are expected as an outcome of the logistics component. Moreover,
the health strategy and financing studies are expected to produce prospective
economic benefits by pointing the way to policies and mechanisms which will
permit Sri Lanka to meet its health goals better, even in a financially



- 43 -
constrained environment, by focusing on services which provide the broadest
benefits to society as a whole.
6.3       Consumer benefits would include increased access to appropriate
levels and types of health care and improved health from better case manage-
ment, drug prescribing practices and availability of laboratory and diagnostic
services.
6.4       Both society and individuals will benefit from reduced fertility.
Achievement of a 0.4 reduction in the TFR, to which the project would
contribute, would enable Sri Lanka to reach replacement fertility by 2005.
This is five years earlier than the date projected for replacement fertility
by working out the implications of the current UNFPA project on the method
mix, contraceptive levels, and trends. In addition to providing socio-
economic benefits, lower rates of population growth also promote environmental
benefits by reducing pressures which contribute to environmental degrada-
tion. To fertile couples, the project would provide benefits by reducing the
risk of maternal and infant and child morbidity and mortality from too
frequent or unspaced pregnancies. Strengthening the institutional base for
family planning strategy development will enable the Government to adapt its
population efforts more efficiently to changing demographic patterns and
consumer preferences and to coordinate public and private activities more
effectively.
B. Risks
6.5       The project faces two main risks.  First, the Government's commit-
ment to management reform may falter once the initial staffing effort is
completed. Second, in the light of past experience, it may be difficult for
the MOPI Population Division to forge effective collaboration among concerned
Government and voluntary actors landing to productively integrated family
planning service delivery and communications.
6.6       To ensure that management improvements take root, the project
provides for a combination of technical assistance and in-service training at
all critical levels of the health management system. Both the terms of
reference for consultants (see para. 5.1) and basic training outlines are
available. Annual training plans will be prepared well in advance (see
para. 3.13). Moreover, the establishment of Management Development and
Planning Units in both health ministries (see paras. 3.19-3.21) would help
stabilize those management improvement process and provide mechanisms to
adjust them as required. Oversight by the Project Steering Committee (see
para. 5.2) and the midterm management evaluation (see para. 5.12) also would
foster sustained efforts at management improvement.
6.7       To promote implementation of the family planning component, the
Population Division will be strengthened to improve its strategic planning,
monitoring and IEC capabilities.   The additional resources will enable the
Division to take an effective leadership role in coordination matters. A good
deal of the strategy development for family planning service delivery and IEC
will be developed through workshops in which all concerned actors will
participate, thereby ensuring their substantive involvement and promoting



- 44 -
wider consensus on goals and individual agency roles. The midterm qualitative
review of the family planning component (see para. 5.12) also will provide an
external perspective on the Population Division's coordination efforts.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       Assurances were received at negotiations that:
(a) by September 30 of each project year the Government will furnish for
review and comment by the Association detailed work plans for
project-financed training and for health policy research for each
subsequent calendar year (paras. 3.13 and 3.25);
(b) by August 31, 1992, the Government will have completed a health
strategy and financing study under terms of reference and by
personnel or consultants whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, that the
Government will furnish the Association with the findings and
conclusions of each part of the study when completed and that the
Government will thereafter implement recommendations of the complete
study on which it and the Association agree (para. 3.25);
Cc) terms of reference satisfactory to the Association will be prepared
by August 1, 1989 for the special service delivery programs in Galle
and Matale/Polonnaruwa RDHS areas by August 1, 1989, and implemented
thereafter (para. 3.31);
(d) that NGOs and MOPI will enter into agreements satisfactory to IDA
for the use of family planning grant funds under the project
(para. 3.73); and
(e)  (i) project performance reviews, including management, logistics and
family planning assessments, would take place in the third and final
years of the project under terms of reference and by persons whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) that the findings and recommendations of those reviews would be
discussed with IDA within 90 days of their completion, together with
the Government's proposed action plan to rectify problems identified
by the reviews; and (iii) that the Government thereafter would
implement changes in project design and operations on which it and
the Association agree (para. 5.12).
7.2       Conditions of project effectiveness would be the staffing of Ci) the
Deputy Director General and all Director posts in the new Human Resource
Management, Finance and Management Development and Planning Units in both
health ministries; (ii) the two new professional posts in the IEC and the new
professional post in the Research, Evaluation and Training Units, respectively
of the MOPI Population Division; and (iii) the Project Coordinator post in
MOPI (para. 5.1).



- 45 -
7.3       With the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 12.9 million (US$17.5 million
equivalent) to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on standard IDA
terms with 40 years' maturity.



- 46 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Details of In-Service Management Training Programs
Training
Where                                          respons-  Project
Category                    Organized    Content              How              ibility    Year
A. Ministry of Health
1. National Training Programs
a.  RDHS                  MH,          Management          Workshop of 1        MDPU/NIHS    1
Districts   Refresher            week, 2 groups
of 10
b. Directors of          MH,           Hospital            Workshop of 1        MDPU/NIHS    1
Provincial and       Districts   management            week, 2 groups
District Medical                                       of 15
Officer (DMOs) of
Base Hospitals
c.  Medical Officers    MH,            Managing health    Workshops of 2        MDPU/NIHS   2-3
(MOs) in charge      Districts   care                  weeks, 10 groups
of district                       institutions         of 25
hospitals and
peripheral units
d.  Medical Officers    MH,           Management of        Workshop of 1        MDPU/NIHS   2-3
of Health NMOHs)    Districts   Community Health   week, 5 grOups
of 25
e.  Accountants          MH,           Financial           Workshop of 1        MDPU/DDG      2
Districts   Management           week, 3 groups       Finance
of 20
Workshop of 1
f.  Administrative       Districts   Office                week, 2 groups       MDPU/DDG      2
Officers                          Management           of 20                Adm.
g.  Matrons/Nursing      MH,           Ward management,   Workshop of 1         MDPU/Dir.   2-4
Sisters in Charge   Hospitals   management of          week, 10 groups    Nursing
staff and           of 25                (Post-
general                                  Graduate
management                               School)



- 47 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 2
Training
Where                                          respons-  Project
Category                   Organized    Content               How              ibility    Year
h.  Planning             MOH, RDHS   Epedemiology,         Workshop of 1        MDPU/Dir.   2-3
Assts/Statistical   Offices       Statistics,          week, 4 groups       Planning
Officers                          Planning, MIS,       of 25
Evaluation
i.  Team Training of    RDHS          Orientation,         Workshop of 1        MDPU/NIHS   2-3
RDHS teams (10                    understanding of   week, 10 groups
members for each                  tasks and roles,   of 20
RDHS)                             interpersonal
competence, team
building, Med.
Team Dev. Plan
for District
2.  District Training  (Galle and Matale RDHS Areas)
a.  District Trainers   Galle and   Principles of          Workshop of 2        MDPU/NIHS    1
(RDHS, MO-MCH,       Matale       educational          weeks, 1 group
Health Education    RDHS          sciences, peda-    of 20
Officer, Super-                   gogy, teaching,
visory Public                     assessment of
Health Nurs,.                     trainees
DMO, MOH, Matron,
Assistant Direc-
tor, Registerd
Medical Practi-
tioner, Hospital,
Surgical and
Peripheral
Training Teams
2.  Assistant            Galle and   Management of         Workshop of 1        RDHS/         2
Director MOs and    Matale        patient care         week, 2 groups       District
Dental Surgeons      RDHS         services             of 20                trainers
areas
c.  Registered/Assist   Galle and   Personnel,             Workshop of 1        RDHS/         2
ant Medical          Matale       Office and           week, 4 groups       District
Practitioners        RDHS         Stores input         of 20                trainers
areas



- 48 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 3
Training
Where                                          respons-  Project
Category                   Organized    Content               How              ibility    Year
d.  Nursing Sisters                   Ward management    Workshop of 1          RDHS/         3
week, 2 groups       District
Calle and                        of 20                trainers
Matale
RDHS
areas
e.  Middle Level         Galle and   Management of         Workshop of 3        RDHS/         3
Technical            Matale       supplies and         days, 3 groups       District
Officers             RDHS         equipment            of 25                trainers
areas
Calle and   Office               Workshop of 5        RDHS/        2-3
f.  Clerks               Matale       management           days, 5 groups       District
RDHS area                        of 25                trainers
Peripheral Training by a team of Matron, Supervisory Public Health and Inspector, and
Public Health Nurse Specially Deputed for 2 Years
1.  Staff nurses         MH, Galle   Patient care          Workshop of 5        RDHS/        2-3
and         management           days, 12 groups    Peri-
Matale                           of 20                pheral
RDHS                                                  Training
areas                                                 Team
b.  Public Health        Galle and   Management of         Peripheral work-   RDHS/          2-3
Inspector            Matale       Primary Health       shop of 4 days,      Peri-
RDHS        Care                 4 groups of 25       pheral
areas                                                 Training
Team
c.  Public Health        Galle and   Management of         Workshop of 3        RDHS/        2-3
Nurse                Matale       Primary Health       days, 16 groups    Peri-
RDHS        Care                 of 25                pheral
areas                                                 Training
Team



- 49 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 4
Training
Where                                          respons-  Project
Category                    Organized    Content              How              ibility    Year
Calle and   Orientation, job   Workshop of 3          RDHS/         2-3
d.  Attendants           Matale        skills              days, 8 groups       Peri-
RDHS                             of 25                pheral
areas                                                 Training
Team
e.  Laborers              Galle and   Orientation/job    Workshop of 3          RDHS/        2-3
Matale       skills              days, 15 groups    Peri-
RDHS                             of 30                pheral
areas                                                 Training
Team
B.  Ministry of Women's Affairs and Teaching Hospitals (MWATH)
1.  Directors and        MWATH        Management           Workshops of 5       MDPU         1, 3
Ministry                          (financial,          days, 2 groups
Officials                         monitoring and       of 10, twice in
evaluation, MIS,   5 years
top management
skills)
2.  Medical               KWATH,      Management           Half-day panel       MDPU          1, 3
Consultants          Teaching    (Ward, per-           discussion and
Hospitals   sonnel, equip-        seminars, 7
ment use, info      groups of 30
system,             each, twice in 5
resource)           years
3.  Medical Officers    Teaching    Management             Workshops of 5       MDPU/NIHS   1-5
Hospitals   (Ward, person-       days, 32 groups
nel, prescrip-      of 25
tion habits,
personnel,
financial,
equipment use,
infor system)



-    -0                             ANNEX 1
Page 5
Training
Where                                         respons-  Project
Category                   Organized    Content              How             ibility    Year
4.  Matrons and          Teaching    General manage-    Seminar/workshop   MDPU/            1-4
Nursing Sisters      Hospitals   ment (ward,          demonstration of   Basic
financial,          5 days, 12          Nursing
personnel, nurs-   groups of 15         Training
ing quality,                            Schools
drugs/equip.
usage, inform.
system, training
of subordinates)
5. Medical Lab
Technicians and      Teaching    Logistics            Workshops of 7      MDPU/DDG    2-5
their supervisors   Hospitals   Management            days, 16 groups    Logistics
(inst. control,    of 10, twice in
quality control,   5 years
equip. use,
prev. maint.
costing perfor-
mance, computer
usage, record
keeping)
6.  Radiographers and   Teaching    Management            Workshop of 3       MDPU         2, 4
Senior Radio-        Hospitals   procedures           days, 10 groups
graphers                          (quality con-       of 10 twice in 5
trol, equip.        years
use, prev.
maint., costing
and performance,
record keeping)
7.  Accountants          Teaching    Accounting,          Workshop of 3       MDPU/        2, 4
Hospitals   budget, costing,   days, 3 groups        Finance
& MWATH     plan and project   of 10, twice in    Div.
preparation,        5 years
maintenance,
medical info.
system



- 51 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 6
Training
Where                                          respons-  Project
Category                   Organized    Content               How             ibility    Year
8.  Administrative       Teaching    Management,           Workshops of 5      MDPU/ DDG   2, 4
Officers             Hospitals   accounting,           days, 2 groups      Adm.
& MWATH     plans, stores        of 10, twice in
and supplies,       5 years
costing,
maintenance
9.  Medical Record       Teaching    Medical info,         Workshop of 4       MDPU         1, 2, 4
Officers             Hospitals   judicial proce-    days, 1 group of
dures, data pro-   11, 3 in 5 years
cessing, analy-
sis and reports
10. Laborers             Teaching    Orientation and    1 day training,    Director    1-5
Hospitals   Skills               105 groups of 25   Teaching
&                                                     Hosp/MDPU
Ministry
11. Clerks               Teaching    Orientation,          Workshop of 3       Director    1-5
Hospitals   office               days, 22 groups    Teaching
and          procedures,         of 25 each           Hospitals
Ministry    financial                                 /MDPU
management,
principles of
management



-52-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Health Strategy and Financing Study
I. Background
1.1       Most indicators of health status in Sri Lanka are substantially
higher than in other developing countries of similar income level. The level
of public health services provided after Independence was very high, and
remained so through the 1960's. However since then it has started to decline,
with a declining share of the budget due to increased competition from other
sectors; increased pressure on the system due to population growth,
urbanization, and the emergence of more complex morbidity patterns; the
provision of more expensive tertiary care, and the high operating costs of
sophisticated hospitals.
1.2       Although the incidence of malnutrition and infant mortality are low
on average, there exist great variations between regions and income groups -
with some outlying areas, estate and plantation workers, and urban shanty
dwellers being particularly badly off. Malaria is a serious problem in many
areas of the country, as is the prevalence of diahorreal diseases due to poor
environmental conditions.
1.3       The Government has declared its adherence to the policy of Health
for All by the Year 2000, and is according high priority to a program of
primary health care (PHC). However there are a number of inefficiencies in
the health delivery system, and a tendency for patients to bypass the primary
system for care at higher levels. At the same time the primary health care
system is relatively under-funded, due in part to the heavy financial
requirements of the teritary facilities and services. There is a squeeze on
financial resources for the sector as a whole, and insufficient information
available to evaluate the distribution of costs, benefits, and cost-
effectiveness under the current system. In the absence of a specific health
care strategy and corresponding investment plans, there is little basis for
comprehensive financial planning, and a tendency for financial resources to be
allocated on an ad hoc basis. At the same time the private sector has been
growing rapidly, and there is an increasingly hazy distinction between the use
of public and private resources - as many government doctors are providing
service on a fee basis, and are using public resources in support of private
practice.
1.4            The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) needs to build up a data
base on health care requirements, services, and costs, in order to facilitate
proper strategic planning. As part of this effort the proposed Health
Strategy and Financing Study is designed to arrive at a better understanding
of the sources and uses of funds in the sector, and the linkages of financing
arrangements with health strategy. Using in part the results of this study,
the Government will also be undertaking a program of complimentary work aimed
at determining the appropriate level and mix of health services to be



-53-                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
provided.  At the same time GOSL will take parallel measures to improve of the
efficiency with which resources are used within the existing system. This
will be achieved through management and systems improvements under the IDA
project, and additional analysis supported by an Operational Research fund.
II. Objectives
2.1       There is a need to examine the effects of current health financing
arrangements on levels of service; on the appropriateness of mix of services
by region, by type of service, and in relation to need; and on the
distribution of services, costs, and subsidies by income group, geographical
area, and category of health care need. The specific objectives of the health
financing study are:
(a) to compile a data base on:
(i) health facilities and services, charges, and utilization;
(ii) health service operating and capital costs; and
(iii) demand, determinants of use, and ability to pay;
(b) to assess the nature and extent of problems relating to current
health financing arrangements, and their effects on the level and
distribution of services provided; and,
(c) to examine options for revising the system, assessing the costs,
impacts on resource allocation, appropriateness of service levels,
and equity considerations for each option.
In addition to the establishment of an initial data base for planning and
analysis purposes, the study is designed to build up the institutional
capability to replicate the surveys, and eventually extend the data base to
other districts, and to develop the capacity to undertake analytical work on
health supply and demand and financing issues within the central ministries.
III. Outline
3.1       The proposed study will fall into three principal sections: the
compilation of data, analysis of the existing system, and an assessment of
options. In particular the study will consist of (i) a household survey to
determine morbidity, health service demand patterns, and determinants of
service utilization, income effects on service use, and expenditure on health;
(ii) surveys of health facilities and services, and an analysis of their
utilization and costs; (iii) an epidemiological survey and analysis of needs
and demand for health services; (iv) a study of current financing arrangements
and their impact on the level and mix of services, and the distribution of
costs, benefits, and subsidies: and, (v) an analysis of the financial and
distributional implications of alternative health care financing strategies.



-54-                               ANNEX 2
Page 3
3.2       The survey work will cover the three districts in which PHC
complexes are being established under the project (Matale, Polonnaruwa, and
Galle), as well as the Colombo urban district--in order to provide
representative samples under different conditions, and to complement the
service delivery initiatives under the project.
3.3       The study will thus consist of a data gathering phase, followed by a
number of more analytical tasks. The overall process will be under the
management of a co-ordinator within the Management Planning and Development
Unit (MDPU) of the Ministry of (to be determined at negotiations) supported by
an expert advisor. It is expected that the specific surveys will be con-
tracted out to specialized agencies or consulting firms, with the expert
advisor assisting in design, supervision, and analysis of the results. It is
also expected that the analytical work on health financing issues derived from
the surveys will be undertaken by a combination of and Government staff and
outside experts, under the close overall direction of the study manager and
his advisor. Appendices 1 and 2 chart organization and implementation of the
study.
IV. Task Management and Descriptions
A. Study Coordinator
4.1       The study coordinator will provide overall management and direction
to staff and consultants working on different tasks, and will provide
continuity across the various tasks. In particular he or she will:
(a) provide overall steering and management during the data gathering
phase, including:
(i)   frame detailed terms of reference and task descriptions;
(ii)   manage the selection and engagement of consultants;
(iii)   oversee and manage initial survey design;
(b) provide leadership during the analytical phase of the study,
including:
(i)   managing and steering consultants and other staff working on
analytical tasks:
(ii)   ensure terms of reference are being followed, and that GOSL
policy concerns and objectives (as articulated by the Working
Group and Steering Committee) are being addressed:
(iii)   chair and/or direct ad hoc working groups which may be convened
to work on specific tasks;



-55-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(c) provide the central point for liasion with the Working Group and
between agencies, and a secretariat function to the Steering
Committee;
(d) ensure that the Working Group and Steering Committee are kept
informed of progress, developments and issues arising;
(e) along with his advisor, take primary responsibility for the
analytical output of the study - particularly the demand analysis,
assessment of the current financing arrangements, and analysis of
options.
4.2       The co-ordinator should be a line employee of the Ministry of (see
para. 3.03), with a strong background in public health issues, and preferably
in health financing, and should have substantial experience of the Sri Lanka
Health sector.
B. Expert Advisor
4.3       The role of the advisor is to provide detailed expertise not
otherwise available in the areas of health care strategic planning methods,
economics, and financing, and to provide technical and analytical continuity
across tasks performed by different groups and consultants. The advisor will
provide support to the study co-ordinator in all activities, in particular he
will:
(a) help design the framework for surveys;
(b) oversee and provide an objective review of the detailed survey
designs;
(c) on a periodic basis, monitor and provide quality control over the
collection, tabulation, and preliminary analysis of survey data;
(d) with the study co-ordinator, play the principal role in leading and
coordinating the analytical phase of the study, providing expert
public health economics input into the demand analysis, examination
of the existing system, and survey of health financing options; and
(e) provide comparative background, drawing from experience of systems
in other countries.
4.4       The advisor may be an individual consultant, or the lead consultant
supplied by a public health consulting firm, which could also provide various
technical experts and supporting personnel to assist in the execution of the
three analytical tasks ( and possibly the costing study). The individual
would have a strong background in strategic planning and policy analysis in
the health sector in developing countries, with a concentration in health
finance and economics.
4.5       The advisor would be expected to work on the project part time
(although intensively on a periodic basis) during the data gathering phase,



-56-                             ANNEX 2
Page 5
and full time during the analytical phase. In total about 18 man-months would
be required, at an estimated cost of $ 180,000.
4.6       Household Survey
Purpose: A baseline survey to start building a data base on health
service utilization and expenditure in the areas of interest: to
serve as an input into the demand analysis and later analysis of
financing options; and to cross-check findings of the
epidemiological and facilities surveys.
Description: Application of an interviewer-administered
questionnaire to a representative sample of households in the three
districts and Colombo to determine:
(i) incidence of illness and other health problems, and treatment
used;
(ii) utilization of health services and facilities, and determinants
of use;
(iii) the costs of health service, including charges paid and
ancillary costs such as transport, meals, opportunity costs,
etc.
(iv) medicines used, their sources and costs;
(v) total household income and/or expenditure, and expenditure on
health:
(vi) perceptions of health care services and facilities available
(knowledge of existence, distance, perception of quality);
(vii) payments, reimbursements, and contributions for medical
services from employers, insurance, others.
Output: Data base and descriptive report, largely as an input into
the demand analysis.
Execution: Survey organization, under general direction of the
study coordinator, expert advisor to assist in survey design,
monitoring, and quality control.
Duration: About 14 months (2 months design and testing, 2 months
training, testing, and preparation, 5 months data-gathering, and 5
months tabulation, data processing, analysis and report writing).
Estimated Cost: Estimated at about $150,000.



-57-
ANNEX 2
Page 6
4.7       Facility Survey
(a) Purpose: To collect baseline data on facilities in the areas of
interest, initially to serve as an input into the costing study and
analysis of the existing system, but ultimately to provide an
information base for planning and regulation purposes, and for the
analysis of health care supply and demand.
(b) Description: A survey of all public and private facilities and
services in the area of interest, to provide a comprehensive
cataloguing of:
(i)  physical location, catchment area, and the services provided at
each;
(ii) the physical facilities (beds, equipment, labs, etc., and
staff) available;
(iii) capacity and utilization;
(iv) operating budgets and costs;
(v)  charges (if any);
(vi) to the extent possible, estimates of the quality of the
facilities and services offered; and,
(vii) possibly brief patient interviews (if feasible) - to verify
utilization data and findings from the household surveys.
The study should consist of a preliminary identification of the institutions
involved, followed by a detailed survey, using available information (eg.
registers, budgets, etc. to cross-check and verify findings.
Output: Comprehensive directory, data base, and descriptive report.
Execution: Survey organization, with ad hoc working group of MOH,
MWATH, and Local government staff, under general direction of the
co-ordinator and advisor.
Duration: About 8 months (2 months design and pilot, 3 months
surveying, 3 months tabulation, processing, and report writing).
Estimated Cost: $40,000
4.8       Costing Study
Purpose: To develop accurate data on the cost of health services, as
a basis for assessing cost-effectiveness, trade-offs for strategic
planning, financing requirements, and as an input into the analysis
of financing options.



-58-                              ANNEX 2
Page 7
Description: Using the facilities survey, and other available data
(budgets, expenditure data, etc.), estimate unit costs for services
delivered at each point in the health care chain; including, for
example:
costs of outpatient treatment for various categories of patients at
different facilities;
costs per bed-day for different patient classes at different
facilities;
unit costs of physicians and other para-medics' time;
the distributed costs of overheads, capital charges, etc.
This would first require the working up of a standardized list of services,
and identifying the points at which they are offered, then collecting data
from the facilities survey and other sources, and calculating unit costs.
Output: A comprehensive cost list and descriptive report analyzing
the results.
Execution: Consultant or consulting firm with expertise in public
finance and accounting, and background in health economics - or -
possibly lower level accounting staff, working under the direction
of the study manager and advisor. In either case the consultant(s)
would have to work with an ad hoc working group of staff from the
ministries of Health, WATH, and Finance and Planning.
Duration: 6 months.
Estimated Cost: $ 30,000-$40,000
4.9       Epidemiological Survey
Purpose: To build up a data base on morbidity and mortality in the
areas of interest, to serve as an input into the demand analysis and
analysis of health financing options, and more broadly, as a basis
for health service planning and an assessment of the effectiveness
of the current system.
(b)  Description: Collect comprehensive data on:
(i) the incidence of disease and health-related problems in the
areas of interest - by category of disease, patient group, and
geographical area;
(b) patterns of evolution of morbidity over time;
Cc) the incidence of malnutrition and the status of maternal and
child health and,
(d) a profile of the distribution and causes of mortality.



-59-
ANNEX 2
Page 8
Given the limited time, this will consist largely of a tabulation of data from
existing sources, to be verified (or otherwise) with antecdotal evidence from
field visits and discussions with medical staff and the results of the
household and facilities surveys. If feasible and cost-effective, limited
specialized surveys mav be undertaken.
Output: Descriptive report and substantial statistical base.
Execution: Epidemiologist, supported by MOH epidemiologist(s) and
regional health care staff.
Duration: About 4 months.
Estimated Cost: about $40,000
4.10      Demand Analysis
(a)  Purpose: To assess the magnitude and pattern of health care
requirements and demand for health services in the areas of
interest.
(b)  Description: Using the household and epidemiological studies:
(i)  estimate the likely aggregate level of requirement for each
type of health service in the areas of interest, categorized by
type of morbidity and level of service;
(ii) estimate the magnitude and pattern of demand for health
services of each type at each level of facility by geographical
region;
(iii) analyze The determinants of utilization (or lack of
utilization) of each type of facility and service;
(iv) assess the extent to which the current health care system is
meeting identified needs and demand, and pinpoint and explain
areas in which needs and/or demand are not being met;
(v)  assess current expenditure on health by type of service,
estimate willingness to pay, and assess ability to pay relative
to income and wealth.
(c)  Output: A written report assessing: (i) health care requirements in
each area; (ii) the adequacy of the current system in meeting those
requirements; and (iii) analyzing the principal issues in demand,
utilization, willingness, and ability to pay.
(d)  Execution: Led by the project co-ordinator and expert advisor,
possibly with other specializaed inputs if needed, and some support
from research assistants. Substantial discussion with the working
group would also be expected.
(e) Duration: About 4 months.



-60-
ANNEX 2
Page 9
(f) Estimated Cost: $30,000
4.11      Analysis of the Existing Financing System
(a) Purpose: To document the current system for the mobilization and
allocation of financial resources in the health sector, identify
problems and issues arising, and the resultant effects on service
delivery and health status.
(b) Description: An analysis of:
(i) the total resources consumed by health and related services in
the areas of concern, and their allocation by type and level of
service;
(ii) the sources of funds (public, private, employers, insurance,
etc.);
(iii)  the adequacy of financial resources available, including
provisions for specific classes of expenditure on operations
and maintenance;
(iv) an examination of the process by which allocation decisions are
made, both within GOSL and in the private sector - for both
capital and recurrent expenditure;
(v) an examination of the role of foreign aid and voluntary
organizations in the provision and allocation of resources;
(vi) examine the mix of services between public and private, and the
net financial flows associated with private practice;
(vii)  identify the current role of insurance, and any other similar
schemes in the financing of health care;
(ix) assess the effect of the level, allocation ,and sources of
finance on the levels of service provided, appropriateness of
mix of services relative to requirements, and on accessability
to, and geographic distribution of, services;
(x) determine the current degree of cost recovery at each level of
service and,
(xi) analyze the incidence of costs, benefits, and subsidies under
the current system, by type of service and facility and class
of patient (by morbidity, income, and region).
(b) Output: Analytical report with substantial supporting data,
outlining current situation in each of the areas listed above,
identifying possible systems improvements and policy measures to
overcome problems.



-61-
ANNEX 2
Page 10
(c)  Execution: Expert advisor, under overall guidance of the project co-
ordinator, with small working group(s) of GOSL staff from concerned
ministries to address specific issues, and additional expert inputs
in to public health and financing fields as needed (3 man-months
budgeted).
(d)  Duration: 5 months.
(e)  Estimated Cost: $30,000
4.12      Analysis of Financing Options
(a)  Purpose:  To identify options for health financing, their costs,
benefits, and distributional impacts - for presentation to senior
policy-makers.
(b)  Description: Consider each of the following options:
(i) increased allocation to the health sector:
(ii) revised allocations within the sector:
(iii)  increased and reduced roles for the private sector;
(iv) introduction of selected user charges in the public system;
(v) introduction of public and/or private health insurance;
(vi) the use of vouchers, deductibles, caps, or pavement limits ;
and,
(vii)  continuation of the present system; and such combinations of
options as appear reasonable.
For each option:
(i) assess the likely impact on levels of service, and the
appropriateness of mix of services;
(ii) estimate the total costs and net budgetary impact;
(iii)  quantify the incidence of costs, benefits and subsidies; and,
(iv) assess ability and willingness to pay, by income group, patient
category, and region.
The analysis should also comment on administrative and legal requirement to
implement each option, and assess the likely financial impact relative to
gains to be made in other areas, such as efficiency improvements in service
delivery, greater cost-effectiveness, etc.



-62-
ANNEX 2
Page 11
(a) Output: An analytical report with supporting quantitative analysis,
describing each of the options, its costs, benefits, and
distributional impact. The report will not recommend a particular
approach, but should provide senior policy makers with sufficient
information to assess all of the options.
(b) Execution: Study co-ordinator and expert advisor, in close
consultation with the Working Group, with additional expert input as
required (4 man-months budgeted for).
(c) Duration: About 7 months - 5 months for initial analysis, followed
by 2-3 months for review and revision.
(d) Estimated Cost: $40,000.
V. Implementation Arrangements
5.1       At the highest level, a Steering Committee of concerned Secretaries
will provide policy guidance and serve as a forum for discussion of results.
Given the level and role of the Steering Committee, it is anticipated that
initially it would meet relatively infrequently, say every 4 months, and more
often towards the end of the study, as the analytical tasks are being
completed.
5.2            More frequent operational guidance and review of the study
would be provided by an inter-ministerial Working Group - to be constituted at
the Deputy Director-General level. The Working Group would ensure that GOSL
policy and concerns were being taken into account at each stage of the study;
would review progress on a regular basis, and re-direct the study as
necessary; consider major operational and budgetary problems as they arise:
and would provide a forum for debate of the issues arising, and for inter-
departmental co-ordination. Core membership of the Working Group would consist
of representatives of the principal ministries involved (MOH, MWATH, Finance
and Planning), but the Working Group would also second in staff from other
related ministries and agencies, and outside experts, when considering
specific issues.



-- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix± 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Organization of Health Strategy and Finance Study
OUSEHOLD      |                                                        DEMOLOGICAL
r SURVEY                                                                S|RE
FACILMES                            DEMAND
SUTJSVEY                           ANALYSIS
COSTING
S'RJDY       
l ntedmAsentd 
I  Heatth      Of c 
Ie  Requiqu    an
L  Effectvns
.                      |   ~~~~~~~~~~Examinatbln dOf
ANALYSIS OF                  Current &x%etWWV
EXLS1NG HEAL7FI   me       %    and FRnancirW       
FINANCING SYSTEML                 Mehns 
Rough E5*ab                    OPTK   FOR
atd Franlond3           IN        HEALTH
Reqiuhmenhs                     FINANCING;
L__~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Wd _ __ _i _J



SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT -
Health Strategy and Finance Study - Implementation Schedule
Timing (Months)
Houahl 9Suoo                                   114H
_ 4    (88
D d Anc3000
Fo~~~~mm§                                              8 w0
FadllN 9wev                                  40.000       __    
Casfi  Study                               3000
HeaAh Swvice Requirments & Effectivene a    -
.-_
Edh1S Fi~dlRequhi      Bbment.  .
o   of I d v  w" id sy" i.,  0..                                          -- 
Ewndda _n:  **rvb                                                                               ............. 
OpuhR OCGO .~~~~~~DA                                                                                ......      _        D
G00"t'Aft    *wIsv"Mw*n    in anfttw Vram sat of #,y.
Wouid Bank-411,55. 1



-65-                              ANNEX 3
Page 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Service Delivery Subcomponent Concepts
I. Rationale
1.1       The health sector needs to develop cost-effective approaches to
reduce morbidity, increase efficiency in the use of existing resources and
reduce imbalances in access to Primary Health Care (PHC). Although developed,
the PHC system design has not been carefully evaluated; divergent opinions
regarding its efficacy persist within MOH. Health facilities and staff
postings need to be rationalized and the health system needs to focus on
reducing morbidity. The current institutional framework for service delivery
is inadequate to achieve those health policy objectives. Therefore directions
for further institutional development of health care service delivery need to
be identified and tested.
1.2       Through its management improvement component the Project seeks to
strengthen human resources and financial management and strategic planning.
It is important to test these in pilot areas and, as required, adapt the above
improvements at regional levels.
II. Objectives
2.1       The overall objective of the Service Delivery subcomponent is to
respond to the above needs by strengthening the health services in the Galle
and Matale Regional Health Directorates (RDHS) areas. Galle, a lowland
coastal district, has a relatively well developed health infrastructure with a
teaching hospital. The Matale RDHS area covers two districts--Matale and
Polonnaruwa. Matale, bordering the central highlands, has more widely
dispersed health facilities and personnel and is not served by a teaching
hospital. Polonnaruwa includes recently resettled areas of Mahaweli System B.
In addition to reducing morbidity and improving PHC in these areas, the
subcomponent will help guide further development of service delivery arrange-
ments at the periphery in areas both with and without ready access to
specialized tertiary care.
2.2       More specifically the objectives of the service delivery subcom-
ponent are to (i) services provided and their impact on health status in areas
with and withou developed complexes beween and before the chapter the
complexes become functional, (ii) provide a methodology for development of
cost-effective special programs for specific diseases which can form an input
to decentralized planning processes, (iii) serve as pilot areas for management
improvement subcomponents at the field level, (iv) improve service delivery so
as to reduce morbidity at a faster pace in these two areas, (v) reduce
imbalances in access to PHC in these two areas and (vi) contribute to the
development of broadly replicable models for further development of the health
delivery system.



-66-                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
III. Strategy
3.1       The broad approach of the Service Delivery sub-component in Galle
and Matale health regions will be to:
(a) strengthen field level management by rationalizing MOH areas,
improving financial and human resources management and in-service
training;
(b) strengthen management at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital in Galle
district by reorganization and development of a hospital management
information system;
(c) adapt the pattern for PHC service delivery to local needs and
implement it; and
(d) implement specifically developed programs for reducing morbidity.
3.2       In the first two years of the Project, the attention would be on
developing necessary PHC infrastructure and implementing other subcomponents
of the Project. In-service training will be initiated and the MOH areas will
be rationalized. The health facilities and staffing will also be reviewed.
The remaining three years of the Project will be utilized to evaluate the PHC
complexes and the impact of improved service delivery system.
3.3       Based upon hospital statistics, malaria and intestinal infections
are the major causes of morbidity and insecticide poisoning is a major cause
of mortality in Matale RDHS area. In Galle, diseases of the respiratory
system are a leading cause of morbidity. A large proportion of children in
both areas are reported to suffer from malnutrition. Careful epidemiological
analysis is necessary before special programs to reduce morbidity can be
designed. It is proposed that this analysis be carried out in Galle and
Matale RDHS areas during the first year of the project, at the end of which
the proposals for special programs will be prepared by the Government for
discussion with and approval by IDA. The study insofar as possible, will be
combined with the policy study epidemiological work (see Annex 2, para. 4.10).
3.4       Management consultants under the Project Preparation Facility had
carried out a study of the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital and suggested a
reorganization under which clinical, administrative and nursing services will
be managed by deputy directors appointed for this purpose. The Project will
support this reorganization and develop a hospital management information
system which would provide a link between the teaching hospital and the other
tiers of health services.
3.5       In particular the project will support (i) construction, equipping
and furnishing of PHC complexes at Galewala in Matale, Medirigiriya in
Polonnaruwa and Udugama in Galle district; construction of an additional 20
Gramodaya (Community) Health Centers (GHCs) in Galle and 20 GHCs in Matale-
Polonnaruwa RDHS areas; (ii) formation of two additional Medical Officer
Health (MOH) areas; (iii) development and implementation of special programs;



-67-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
and (iv) reorganization of and development of a management information system
at the Karapitiya Teaching Hospital.
3.6       The benefits of the service delivery subcomponent are twofold--
direct service and institutional. The direct service benefits can be measured
by the reduction in morbidity, improvement in access to PHC and trends in unit
cost of services at various institutions. The institutional benefits would be
the identification of a cost-effective PHS delivery system.
IV. Subcomponent Details
A. PHC Comp'lexes
4.1       In order to meet the goal of 'health for all', Sri Lanka is
implementing a program of PHC. In this context, the National Health Council
has approved the implementation of a restructured health care delivery system
by establishing PHC complexes. The main features of the PHC complexes are
(i) a three-tiered community, outpatient and referral system at the local
level which will form a PHC complex nominally serving a population of 60,000,
(b) integration of preventive and curative health services and (c) a
rationalized service delivery system more amenable to better management.
4.2       Although there is an extensive network of health facilities in Sri
Lanka, there are imbalances in access to PHC. Therefore, the PHC model calls
for PHC complexes consisting of the following:
(a)  Gramodaya Health Centers (GHCs), one for 3,000 population, staffed
by a Family Health worker (FHW) providing the first-level of health
care
(b) Subdivisional Health Centers (SDHCs), one for 20,000 population,
staffed by an Assistant Medical Practitioner (AMP), two Public
Health Inspectors (PHIs), one FHW, one dispenser and one laborer,
providing outdoor medical care and clinic supervision; and
(c) Divisional Health Centers (DHCs), one for a population of about
60,000 in each Assistant Government Agent division, having 60 beds
and staffed by District Health Officers (DHOs), Medical Officers
(MOs), Public Health Nurses (PHNs) and other support staff, serving
as a secondary level of referral care.
4.3       This structure will be further supported by district, provincial and
teaching hospitals as higher-level referral facilities.
4.4       The restructuring of health care would also involve provision of
suitably trained personnel, essential logistics support and involvement of
community and non-government organizations in health development work, through
donation of sites for and maintenance of GHCs by Village Councils and village
health volunteers.



-68-
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Issues in PHC Complexes
4.5       Several doubts have been expressed about the efficacy of the PHC
complex, principally as follows:
(a) integration of preventive and curative services - it is felt that
the Divisional Health Officer, in charge of the PHC complex would
prefer to devote his time to curative services and consequently
preventive care would be neglected;
(b)  rationalization of health facilities - Sri Lanka has an extensive
network of health facilities and development of PHC complexes would
require that some of these be closed down or their services
rationalized which is not immediately feasible; and
(c)  costs - the costs of developing PHC complexes are high; there is a
scope for cost-reduction by utilizing existing facilities more
effectively and designing new ones, where neeeded, more
appropriately.
Evaluation of PHC Complexes
4.6       To resolve the above issues, it is necessary to carefully evaluate
the functioning of PHC complexes in an operational setting. Although several
complexes have been completed with Asian Development Bank assistance, these
have not been evaluated for the following reasons: the planned construction
schedule was disrupted due to implementation difficulties so that different
parts of the complexes became functional at different points in time; baseline
data were not carefully compiled for evaluation purposes; and the Government
did not utilize foreign technical assistance planned for this purpose.
4.7       The proposed Project would support development of one PHC complex in
each pilot district with a view to test its efficacy. Health services would
be assessed on both a "before and after" and with and without basis. The ADB
areas were not chosen from this test be cause of sensitivity about multiple-
donor involvement in the area and the absence of a baseline in ADB agrees to
measure rates of change and their nat ure. However, the policy studies
program may over time study health services in the ADBP areas.
4.8       The selection of the area where the PHC complexes are to be
constructed is critical if a fair test of the PHC complex is desired. The
following criteria were used to analyze various locations: level of service,
morbidity levels, existing facilities, ease of rationalization of services,
performance in curative and preventive care, staff availability in key
categories, ease of implementation and cost. Through discussions with RDHS
and Ministry of Health personnel, three locations were selected: Galewala in
Matale, Medirigiriya in Polonnaruwa, and Udugama in Galle districts.
Details of the Complexes
4.9       The following facilities and staff would be needed to establish
these complexes.



-69-                             ANNEX 3
Page 5
New facility           Existing facility    Facilities needed      Staff needed
Galle District
DHC Udugama           District Hospital    Add service build-   DHO, PHN, SPHN,
ing, upgrade          SFHW, Clerk
operation theatre,
MO and PHN
quarters
SDHC Nagoda           Rural Hospital        Administration         1 SFHW
block, SFHW
quarter
SDHC Yakkalamula      Central Dispensary   Service building,       1 SFHW
(new)                 AMP and SFHW
quarters
SDHC Nakiyadeniya    -                       Service building,     1 AMP, 1 SFHW,
AMP and SFHW          1 Dispenser,
quarters              1 Laborer
GHCs                                         20 GHCs and 4 FHW
quarters
Matale District
DHC Galewala          Peripheral unit        1 Service Building   DHO, PHN, SPHI,
1 MO quarter          SFHW, Clerk
SPHC Madipola         Peripheral unit        Administrative        1 SFHW
block, SFHW
quarter
SDHC Devahuma         Central dispensary   Administrative          1 SFHW
and maternity         block
house
SDHC Pallepola                               Service building,     1 AMP, 1 SFHW,
AMP and SFHW          1 Dispenser,
quarters              1 Laborer
GHCs                                         20 GHCs and 3 FHW    5 Additional FHWs
quarters



-70-                             ANEX 3
Page 6
Polonnaruwa District
DHC Medirigiriya      District Hospital      Administrative          DHO. PHE, SPHI,
block, Pediatric       SFHW, Clerk
ward, Operation
theatre, 1 MO
quarter, Improve-
ment in sewerage
and water supply
SDHC Wijaypura        -                      Service building,    1AP. 1 SFHW,
1 AMP and 1 SFHW       iDispenser,
quarter                ILaborer
SDHC Ambagaswena      -                      Service building,    i ALP, I SFHW,
1 AMP and 1 SFHW       1 D-spenser,
quarter                i Laborer
GHCs                                          16 GHCs, 2 FHW        2 additional FHW
quarters
Note: SPHN - Supervisory Public Health Nurse; SFHW - Supervisory Family
Health Worker; SPHI - Supervisory Public Health Inspector
Gramodaya Health Centers (GHCs)
4.10      In addition to 65 CHCs for the 3 PHC complexes, the Pro-ect will
support establishment of an additional 20 GHCs in Galle and 20 in Matale-
Polonnaruwa RDHs areas for the following reasons:  although there are soiie
questions about the efficacy of PHC complexes, there is a near nive-sa.
agreement about the utility of GHCs.  However GHCs should be adeeo ar a pace
which is commensurate with the capability to ensure their effective
functioning. Three critical factors generally determine the e-P'eot1.-venesq of
CHCs--FHW residence at the GMC, quantity and quality of supervision and
community participation. Therefore the additional GHCs should be co7!structed
only where all the three factors are favorable. As against a total estimated
requirement of 329 GHCs for the two RDHS areas, the Project wouUld Fuport
establishment of 105 GHCs.
C. Rationalization of MOH Areas
4.11      It is generally recognized that supervision by the Med cal Offizer
of Health is a key to effective PHC functioning. Currently the MO.Hs have to
cover either large geographical areas or large numbers of staff or both.
Therefore, in addition to PHC complexes, the Project would assi S£ reorgani-
zation of MOH areas by supporting formation of two additional MOH units6
Discussions with concerned RDHS has led to a suggested reorganization of areas
as follows:



-71-                               ANNEX 3
Page 7
Covering assistant          Population
KOH area                            government agent areas   (in thousands)
Galle District
1. Ambalangoda                      Hikkaduwa                         81
Ambalangoda                       55
2. Balapitya                        Balapitiya                        64
Bentota                           42
3. Akmeemana                        Bope Podale                       48
Akmeemana                         52
4. Udugama                          Nagoda                            48
Yakalamulia                       36
5. Hiniduma                         Battuwagella                      15
Thanalema                         22
Niyangama                         28
6. Badegama                         Badegama                          65
7. Elpitiya                         Kunandeniya                       67
Elpitiya                          50
8. Habaraduwa                       Habaraduwa                       109
Existing MOH areas 6
PHC complex Udugama l
Additional MOH area 1
Matale District
1. Matale                           Matale                            63
Ukuwela                           35
2. Rattota                          Rattota                           41
Ambanganga                        15
3. Lagalle                          Lagalle                           13
Palegama                         Palegama
Hetipola                          23
4. Dambula                          Datbulla                          36
Naula                             23
5. Galewala                         Galewala                          48
Pallepola                         24
Polonnaruwa District
1. Thamankunda                      Thamankunda                       40
Lankapuna                         42
7. Hingarakgoda                     Sinhala Patna                     55
Elahara                           33
8. Medirigiriya                     Medirigiriya                      51
Existing MOH areas   5
PHC complex Galewala
and Medirigiriya    2
Additional MOH area 1



-72-
ANNEX 3
Page 8
D. Special Programs
4.12      Although national mortality rates are quite low, the morbidity load
remains high and the health system needs to focus on reducing it. Several
special campaigns now operate--malaria, TB, filiariasis, leprosy, S.T.D., and
rabies. However the disease pattern has been changing and exhibits
considerable local variations. Therefore, the Project will support
development and implementation of special programs for specific diseases in
Matale and Galle RDHS which would supplement existing service delivery levels.
4.13      Which special programs should be undertaken?  Unfortunately only
hospital statistics are available. They indicate that in Matale RDHS area
malaria and intestinal infections are the major causes of morbidity and
insecticide poisoning is a major cause of mortality, while in Galle, diseases
of the respiratory system are a leading cause of morbidity. A large
proportion of children in both areas reportedly suffer from malnutrition.
Although nationwide programs have been prepared for diarrhoeal and respiratory
diseases, it is not clear how these need to be adapted to specific RDHS areas.
4.14      Preliminary proposals for some of these programs developed during
project preparation were not cost-effective as they relied exclusively upon
additional rather than more effective use of existing staff and were not
selective in their approach. Moreover, some problems such as insecticide
poisioning require innovative approaches.
4.15      Therefore, the Project proposes that during the first year a careful
epidemiological analysis be carried out in Matale/Polonnaruwa and Galle health
service regions. Based upon this analysis, special programs would be designed
for discussion with and approval by IDA for implementation during the last
three years of the Project.
4.16      It is difficult accurately to estimate costs of special programs in
the absence of details of the key activities. However, indicative estimates
were developed (see Appendix 1), against which the Project provides US$1.1
million base costs for special programs.
E. Issues in RDHS Management
4.17      Government management consultants involved in project preparation
observed that the present RDHS organization and management arrangements impede
the achievement of health objectives. For a more effective RDHS decision-
making process which takes the characteristics and pecularilities of the
regions into consideration, the functions of finance and budgetary control,
epidemiology, disease surveillance, and planning and monitoring need to be
strengthened. The span of control of the regional health director is also too
large, since about 35 persons report to him directly.
4.18      Additionally, the health delivery system is not yet adequately
geared towards effective coordination with the new Pradeshiya Sabhas (local
government body at AGA division level). Although legislation has been enacted
giving Pradeshiya Sabhas wide powers and responsibilities, including for
health, it is not clear what operational form this would take or what the



-73-
ANNEX 3
Page 9
relationship would be between the Sabhas and the RDHS. While the HRD,
Financial Management and Budgetary Control and MDPU subcomponents seek to
remedy major institutional problems at central and RDHS levels, it is also
probably necessary to reorganize the RDHS office for effective functioning
under the emerging Pradeshiya Sabha scenario. However, the specific shape
decentralized local government will take and its impact on organization is yet
to be determined. Consequently, there is no agreement on how the RDHS office
should be reorganized and strengthened to fit the Pradeshiya Sabha
structure. It is expected that this issue will be studied by MDPU-MH during
the third year of the Project.
F. Karapitiya Teaching Hospital
4.19      When completed, the new teaching hospital at Karapitiya in Galle
will have about 1,000 beds. The old hospital at Mahamodera will have about
300 beds and would serve as a satellite to the main hospital.
4.20      In reviewing the hospital organization, the Government's consultants
found a lack of (a) clear departmental demarcation, (b) appropriate division
of duties, and (c) defined staff scope, degree of authority, responsibility
and accountability. Senior persons are performing route tasks which should
carried out at lower levels and issues of overall hospital development of as
well as efficiency issues are neglected.
4.21      To reorganize the hospital the following services/units have been
regrouped--clinical services, clinical support services, nursing services and
administrative/managerial/logistics support services.
4.22      The Project provides support for the following additional staff
required for reorganization:
Deputy Director                               1
Superintendent of Administration             1
Head of Clinical Support Services             1
Head of Administrative Services               1
Head of Patient Services                      1
Building Supervisors                          1
Supervisor Electrical/Mechanical             1
Public Relations Officer                     1
Storekeepers                                 4
Personnel Assistants                         3
Clerks                                       2
Recordkeeper                                  1
Binder                                        1
Cycle orderlies                              2
4.23      The teaching hospital also serves as an apex referral service for
the health region. Both to strengthen its links with the rest of the health
system and to optimize internal functioning, the hospital needs to develop a
management information system. Such an information system would provide data
on all hospital functions/services as well as on characteristics of clients
served.



-74-
ANNEX 3
Page 10
4.24      The Project would support development of a management information
system by financing local technical assistance, acquisition of microcomputers,
and salaries of a systems analyst and data entry operator during the third
year of the Project. The MDPU-MWATH would assist in the reorganization and
development of the information system.
V. Implementation Schedule
Year
1      2      3      4       5
PHC
Establishment of PHC complexes               ------
Construction of additional GHCs              --------------------
Training of trainers                         ------
Reorganization of MOH areas                          ------
Establish baseline for service delivery              ------
Evaluate performance                                                       -----
Special Programs
Epidemiologial analysis                      ------
Formulation of special programs                      ------
Implementation                                              -------------------
Evaluation                                                                 -----
Pilot Implementation
Human resources information system           --------------
Financial management and budgetary control  --------------
Karapitiya Teaching Hospital
Reorganization                               -------
Establishment of MIS                                        ------



-75-
ANNEX 3
Page I 1
VI. Budget
A. Galle District
(in Rs'000 unless otherwise specified)
DHC      SDHC        SDHC          SDHC       GHC
Udugama Rhnagoda Yahakamatha Nakmyadama 20+4
Capital Costs (years 1-2)
Civil works                   2,050        800      1,500         1,500    9,200
Equipment and support           350         50         50             50      400
Transport                        20         20         20             20       60
Subtotal                  2,420        870       1,570         1,570    9,660
Recurrent Costs (years 3-5)
Civil works                      50         35         35             60      180
Equipment and support            15         15          15            15      100
Transport                        60         15          15            15        5
Salaries                        125         15         15             36      180
Subtotal                     250        80          80           126       465
Total                     2,670        950       1,650         1,696   10,125



-76-
ANNEX 3
Page 12
VI. (cont'd)
B. Matale District
DHC       SDHC        SDHL        SDHC       GHC
Galewata  Macipola PU  Dwahnwa   Pahepola   20+3
Capital Costs (years 1-2)
Civil works                    1,500         800         800       1,500    8,900
Equipment                        460          60          60          70       460
Transport                         20          20          20          20        60
Subtotal                    1,980         880         880       1,590    9,420
Recurrent Costs (years 3-5)
Civil works                       55          35          35          60       207
Supplies                          15          15          15          15       115
Transport                         60          15          15          15         6
Salaries                         125          15          15          36        75
Subtotal                      255          80          80         126       403
Total                       2,235         960         960       1,716    9,823



-77-
ANNEX 3
Page 13
VI. (cont'd)
C. Polonnaruwa
DHC        SDHC            SDHC         GHCs
Madingiya  Wijaypura N  Audayasevera N   16+2
Capital Costs (years 1-2)
Civil works                       3,750       1,500           1,500        7,000
Equipment and supplies              380           70              70         360
Transport                            20           20              20          45
Subtotal                      4,150        1,590           1,590        7,405
Recurrent Costs (years 3-5)
Civil works                         100           60              60         162
Equipment and supplies               15           15              15          90
Transport                            60           15              15           5
Salaries                            125          36              36          135
Subtotal                        300          126             126          392
Total                         4,450        1,716           1,716        7,797



-78-
ANNEX 3
Page 14
VI. (cont'd)
D. Service Delivery
1. Strengthening Field-Level Management - Ministry of Health
a. 40 GHCs (20 in Matale/Pollonaruwa and 20 in Galle)
Capital cost (years 1-2)
Civil works                                                            16,000
Equipment                                                                 400
Cycles                                                                    100
Recurrent cost (years 3-5)
Civil works                                                               360
Supplies                                                                  360
Total                                                                  620
b.  Setting up medical officer of health areas
Matale & Pollonaruwa
1; Galle 1                            Yr l    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5
MOH salaries                              250     250      250     250      250
Vehicles (2)                              $40       -        -       -        -
Vehicle operating costs                   120     120      120      120     120
Supplies                                   30      30       30      30       30
Civil works                            1,500      750        -       -        -
c. Special programs: 3,300 (see Section 9.b for details)
Note: $ = US dollars.



-79-
ANNEX 3
Page 15
VI. (cont'd)
2. Service Delivery - Galle Teaching Hospital
Yr 1   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 5
Salaries - reorganization and
incremental staff cost                          450    450    450    450    450
Salary - hospital infrastructure
(1 system supervisor, 1 data
entry operator)                                  -       -     80      80     80
Subtotal salaries                            450    450    530    530    530
Equipment:  1 PC AT, 2 PC XT                        -       -    $30       -      -
Air conditioner and furniture          -       -    120       -       -
Technical assistance - local                        -       -    150      50       -
Supplies                                            -       -     75      75     75
Total                                        450      -    875    655    605



-80-
ANNEX 3
Page 16
VII. Monitoring and Evaluation
7.1       During the first two years of the Project, provision of various
inputs would have to carefully monitored. However, subsequently, the
benefits--service and institutional--would need to be measured carefully.
Broadly the direct service benefits can be measured by a reduction in
morbidity, improvement in access to PHC and trends in unit cost of services at
various institutions. The specific indicators for this purpose are listed
below.
FAMILY HEALTH INDICATORS
1.   Vaccination coverage           -    DPT, OPV, BCG, Measles, TT to pregnant
women.
2.   Incidence of EPI               -    target diseases per 100,000 population
-    Polio, Diphtheria, Whooping Cough,
Tetanus, TB, Measles
3.   Contraceptive                  -    prevalence by specific methods
4.   ANC-PNC care                   -    Proportion of pregnant women registered
within first four months, proportion of
pregnant women received ANC at clinics,
proportion of deliveries attended by
trained personnel, proportion of
infants cared for up to age of one year
5.   School health                  -    Percent of schools where SMI is done,
percent of school children examined,
percent of schools taken up for
treatment
6.   Malnutrition                   -    Proportion of children (6 months to 36
months) suffering from malnutrition
(chronic, acute, concurrent)
7.   Environmental                  -    Proportion of population where drinking
water is available at home or in
immediate vicinity (rural/urban),
proportion of population where adequate
sanitary facilities are available at
home
8.   Community participation        -    Number of health volunteers trained
-    Number in position
-    Percent of targets achieved



-81-
ANNEX 3
Page 17
Morbidity                               Outpatient visits/100,000 pop.
Inpatient admissions/100,000
Inpatient days/100,000 pop
Access to PEC                           Percent of people living within 2 km
radius of a PHC facility population
served/FHW
Trends in Cost                          Bed occupancy rate
Average duration of stay
Number of births in institutions/
institutional PHMs
Total expenditure/inpatient day
Total expenditure/inpatient
Total expenditure/outpatient visit
Family Health indicators                (Please see Table 1)
Impact                                  Crude death rate
Infant mortality rate
Neonatal mortality rate



-82-                          ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Service Delivery Subcomponent Concepts
Special Programs
As mentioned earlier, it is difficult to project accurate costs in
the absence of specific details. However, based upon the Government's prelim-
inary proposals, the following indicative estimates have been prepared.
The following special programs are planned:
1.  Gastrointestinal diseases - Galle and Matale                             4,050
2. Malaria - Matale                                                          6,900
3.  Insecticide poisoning - Matale                                           3,000
4.  Nutrition - in the 3 PHC complexes                                       16,200
5.  Epidemiological analysis and special assistance                          2,850
Total                                                                  33,000



ANNEX 3
- 83-                        Appendix 1
Page 2
1. Gastrointestinal Diseases - Calle and Matale
Objective                                Action
Influence basic causes                   Water quality monitoring; food control;
sanitation program
Influence proximate causes               Health education for breastfeeding,
weaning and hygiene; epidemiological
work
Early detection and treatment            Oral rehydration therapy
Reduction of mortality                   Treat complications by antipyretics
andantimicrobials
Community support                        Involve health volunteers
Management                               Training of staff
Budget (Indicative)
Sanitation program                                            already in progress
Water quality monitoring                                                       900
Food control                                                                 1,200
Diarrheal diseases (ORT and health education)                                1,500
Training                                                                       450
Total                                                                  4,050



-84-                          ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 3
2. Malaria - Matale
Objective                                Action
Influence basic causes                   Source reduction (filling, draining,
improved water-level management)
Influence proximate causes               Residual spraying; focal spraying
Early detection and treatmen             Case detection; treatment
Reduction of mortality
Comnunity support                        Seminars and meetings; mass education
Management                               Integrate with PHC
Indicative Budget
Transport                                                                    1,500
Equipment                                                                    1,350
Additional staff                                                               300
Travel/fuel                                                                  1,500
Drugs                                                                          750
Source reduction                                                             1,500
Total                                                                  6,900



-85-                          A
Appendix 1
Page 4
3. Insecticide Poisoning Prevention in Matale
Objective                                Action
Influence basic causes                   Social work
Influence proximate causes              Health education; counseling
Early detection and treatment           Health education; medicines
Reduction of mortality                   Referral
Community support                        Health education
Management                               Analysis of causes
Indicative Budget
Social work                                                                 1,200
Counseling                                                                     600
Health education                                                               900
Data analysis                                                                  300
Total                                                                  3,000



-86-                          ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 5
4. Nutrition Program for Children Aged 6-36 Months and
Pregnant and Nursing Women
Objective                                Action
Influence proximate causes               Iron and folic acid to pregnant women;
food supplementation to pregnant women;
deworming of children; promotion of
breastfeeding
Early detection and treatment            Growth monitoring; Vitamin A supple-
ment; selective onside feeding; nutri-
tion education; early referral for con-
tinued growth fattening
Indicative Budget
Estimated 18,000/beneficiary @ Rs 300 per beneficiary-year in the 3 PHC
complex areas
Cost over 3 years                                                          162,000



ANNEX 4A
-87-
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES
Yearly Project Costs by Component
(US$ 000)
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93   Total
Investment Costs
Management
Management Improvement
Human resources development            166        68        68        39        24       365
Financial mgt. & budg. control           17      107        10        53         0       187
Mgt. dev't & planning units             159       48        81        37        32       359
Health sector policy dev't              180      250       250       180       100       960
Subtotal                             522       473       410       310       157    1.870
Service Delivery
Infrastructure                         470       541       505         2         0    1,518
In-service training                    117       135       157        40        19       469
Strengthening RDHS management          213       282       170         -         -       665
Special programs                       220       220       220       220       220    1,100
Subtotal                           1,021    1,177    1,052         262       239    3,751
Logistics
Drug & supplies management              1,380    1,626        142       99         31    3,278
Transport & equipment maintenance         307       398         6         4         3      718
Subtotal                             1,687    2,024        148       103        35    3,996
Family Planning
Overall strategy                           69        16        16        16       156      272
Service delivery                          149      241        90        10        10       501
Information, education & comm.           879    1,137        457       456       463    3,393
Subtotal                             1,097    1.394        563       483       629    4,165
Project Implementation & Coord. /a           20        20        20        20        20       100
Total Investment Base Costs           4,347    5,087    2,192    1,177    1,079   13,883
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Management
Management improvement                    135       151      258       253       253    1,050
Service delivery                           30       45       112       157       153       497
Subtotal                               165       196       370       411       406    1,547
Logistics                                    22       107       227       236       386      877
Family Planning                              25        25        25        25        25       127
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs    212          328       622       672       717    2,552
Total Base Costs                      4,559    5,415    2,814    1,849    1,796   16,434
Physical contingencies                 456       542       281       185       180    1,643
Price contingencies                    425       973       754       550       611    3,313
Total Project Costs                5,440    6,930    3,85P    2,584    2,587   21.391
/a Excludes $260,000 Project Preparation Facility.



ANNEX 4B
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Yearly Project Costs by Type of Expenditure /a
(US$ 000)
Of which:                            Plus:
Base                Foreign    Taxes &          Contingencies:
1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93   total           Local   exchange   duties          Physical    Price    Total
Civil works                         1,998    1,673        683         -         -    4,355       3,123    1,231          -              435         761     5,551
Equipment, supplies, etc.             387       778       126        60        60    1,411         266    1,061         85              141         188    1,740
Vehicles                              235       551         -         -         -       786          -       616        171               79         88       954
Training                              126       224       250       109        85       792        688       104          -              79         192     1,064
Fellowships                            50        93        43         5         -       190         50       140          -               19         23       232     0
Consultant services                   266      274        188       177        62       966        389       577         -               97         149    1,212
Studies                               217       275       290       210       250    1,242         552       690         -              124         220    1,586
Workshops                               5         2         2         2         2        11         11         -          -                1          2        15
Services, mtc., etc.                  682      841        613       650       700    3,487       3,111       376         -              349         844    4,679
Grants                                429       521       230       235       241    1,658       1,658         -          -             166         391    2,214
Salaries                              164       184       390       401       397    1,536       1,536         -         -              154         456    2,145
Total                         4,559    5,415    2,814    1,849    1,796   16,434    11,384    4,795               256            1,643      3,313   21,391
/a Excludes $260,000 Project Preparation Facility.



- 89 -                               ANNEX 5
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA fiscal year                    Disbursement                 % disbursement
and semester               Semester         Cumulative         of total credit
1989
1st (Jul-Dec 1988)            0.70/a             0.70                     4
2nd (Jan-Jun 1989)            1.27               1.97                    11
1990
1st (Jul-Dec 1989)            1.94               3.91                     2
2nd (Jan-Jun 1990)            3.20               7.11                    41
1991
1st (Jul-Dec 1990)            2.80               9.91                    57
2nd (Jan-Jun 1991)            2.00              11.91                    68
1992
1st (Jul-Dec 1991)            1.55              13.46                    77
2nd (Jan-Jun 1992)            1.00              14.46                    83
1993
1st (Jul-Dec 1992)            1.00              15.46                    88
2nd (Jan-Jun 1993)            0.85              16.31                    93
1994
1st (Jul-Dec 1993)            0.60              16.91                    97
2nd (Jan-Jun 1994)            0.40              17.31                    99
1995
1st (Jul-Dec 1994)            0.19              17.50                   100
/a US$0.7 Special Account.
Note: Closing date: September 30, 1994.



- 90 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Schedule of Key Actions by Component
A. Management Improvement Component
I Year l| Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               1i 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 41
I   II              IlI
Human Resources Development (HRD)
Reorganize HRM
HR information system
Program of studies
Financial Management and Budgetary
Control (FM)
Reorganize FM
System design and installation         ___
Add budget officer at RDMS
Add A/C at teaching hospitals
Set up internal audit teams
Management Development and Planning
Units (MDPU)
Establish and staff MDPU
Program of studies
Assist in managerial actions to
improve efficiency and effec-
tiveness
Develop special programs
In-service training
Strengthen decentralized planning
Develop strategic plans
Health information system
Service Delivery in Galle and Matale
Establish PHC complexes
Construct GHCs
Reorganize MOH areas
Epidemiological studies
Special programs
Reorganize Galle teaching hospital
Establish MIS at Galle teaching
hospital
Evaluation baseline and final
Component Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitor
Mid-term review
Final evaluation



-91 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 2
B. Logistic Component
I       I       I        I       I
I Year 11 Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               |1 2 3 4T1 2 3 4|1 2 3 4|1 2 3 411 2 3 4!
I. Civil Works
A. Stores for MOH & MWATH
1.  Working drawing           /a
2.  Final drawing             /b
3.  Construction
B.  Garages
C. Storage and Material-
Handling Equipment
D.  Pharmacy Equipment
E. Vehicles
1.  Trucks for MSD
2.  Mobile maintenance vans
F. Computers
G. Other Equipment
1.  Garage equipment
2.  Biomedical equipment
II. Technical Assistance
A. Clinical pharmacologist
B.  Logistic expert
C.  Equipment maintenance
D.  Computer expert
III. Studies
A. National morbidity
B.  Equipment maintenance
C.  Prescribing practices
/a By negotiations.
/b By Board presentation



-92-                                ANNEX 6
Page 3
i       I       IIII
| Year 11 Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               1i 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 41
IV. Staffing
A.  Div. pharmacist                /a
B.  Assistant dir. admin.         7a
C. Storekeeper, drivers and
computer staff
D. Mobile maintenance unit
staff
E. MWATH
1. Maintenance engineers
2.  Transport engineers       /a
V. Training
A. Foreign
1.  CMSD staff
2. MWATH
a.  Pharmacist                       __               _
b. Hospital pharma-
cists
B. Local
1. MOH
a. Standard treatment
regime
b.  Media awareness
c. Rational prescrib-
ing
d.  Store management
e.  Drug logistics
2. MWATH
a. Rational prescrib-
ing
b.  Refresher
3. Transport
a.  Drivers
4. Biomedical engineering
a.  Engineers
b.  Mechanics
c. Preventive mainte-
nance
/a Latter part of the preproject period.



ANNEX 6
- 93 -                              Page 4
C. Family Planning Component
I Year 11 Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               IT 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 41
I. Overall Strategy
A.  Technical assistance
B.  DHS
C.  Mahaweli study
D.  Workshops
II. Service Delivery
A. Strategy Development
1.  Workshops
2.  Study problem
3.  Study price
B. Training
1. Traditional practice
a. Personnel
Recruit
Operations
b. Training
In-depth              _
c. Vehicles
Order
Deliver
d. Equipment
Order
Deliver



-94                                ANNEX 6
Page 5
I       IllII
Year 1| Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               1l 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 41
I       I       1       1        1       1
C. Physical Facilities
1. F.P. clinic
Bid
Contract
Construction
2. NGO clinic
Bid
Contract
Construction
D. Vehicles
Order
Deliver
E. Equipment
1. 740 clinics
Order
Deliver
III. IEC Subcomponent
A. Strategy Development
1.  Workshops
2. Staffing
Recruit
Operations
3. Equipment/supplies
Order
Deliver
B. Printing and Audiovisual
Materials
1. Existing materials
a.  Workshop
b.  Mat. reprod'n.



ANNEX 6
95 -Page 6
I Year 11 Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               11 2 3 41 1 2 3 411 523 411 2 3 411 2 3 41
2. New material
a. C.Phamlt.
Design
Produce
Distribute
b. Y.Bklt.
Design
Produce
Distribute
c. M.Phamlet.
Design
Produce
Distribute
d. FW. kits
Design
Produce
Distribute
e. Hos. kits
Design
Produce
Distribute
C. Mass Media
1. TV
Develop
Production/air           -                 _      -
2. Radio
Develop
Production/air
3. Printing
Develop
Production/run
4. Cassette
Pilot
Production/distrib.
D. Interpersonal Communication
1. Mahaweli
a. Interpersonal comm.
1) Staffing
Recruit
Operation
2) Training
Status
Population mgmt.
Population dyn.
Volunteer trng. _



ANNEX 6
-~ 96 -Page 7
Year 11 Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                                11 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 41V2 3 411 2 3 41
3) Vehicles
Order
Deliver
4) Equipment
Order
Deliver
b. Radio
Develop
Production/air
2. FPASL Volunteer
a. Staffing
Recruit
Operation                               _
b.  Training
c. Vehicles
Order
Deliver
3. SLAVSC Counseling
a. Staffing
Recruit
Operation
b. Vehicles
Order
Deliver
c. Equipment
Order
Deliver
E. Other IEC Training
1. Training IEC
Staff
2. Training field
Staff



-97-                                ANNEX 6
Page 8
II          I        I  _    Ii
| Year 11 Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               |l 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 41
I   l                  
I. Overall Strategy
A. Technical assistance
B. Demographic surveys
C. Workshops
D. Mahaweli study
II. Service Delivery
A.  Strategy Development
1. Workshops
2. Study problem
3. Study price
B.  Training
1.  Traditional practices
C.  Physical Facilities
1.  FP clinics
2.  NGO clinics
D.  Vehicles
E.  Equipment
LII. IEC Subcomponent
A.  Strategy Development
1.  Workshops
2.  Staffing
3. Equipment/supplies
B.  Printing and Simple
Audiovisual Materials
1.  Existing materials
2. New material
a.  C.Phamlt.
b.  Y.Bklt.
c.  M.Phamlt.
d.  FW. kits
e. Hos. kits



ANNEX 6
-98-                                Page 9
A  Year 11 Year 21 Year 31 Year 41 Year 51
Activity                               11 2 3 411 2 3 411 2 3 41T 2 3 411 2 3 41
IiI              I           I        I
C. Mass Media
1. TV
2.  Radio
3.  Printing
4.  Cassettes
D. Interpersonal Communication
1. Mahaweli
a. Staffing
b.  Training
c.  Equipment
d.  Radio
2. FPASL Volunteer
a. Staffing
b.  Training                 _
c.  Equipment
3. SLAVSC Counseling
a.  Staffing               _       _       _        _       _
b.  Equipment                               -
c.  Counseling
E. Other IEC Training
1. IEC staff
2.  Field staff



ANNEX 7
99                                    Page 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Health Management Component
Outputs             Indicators                 Outcomes                  Evaluation
Efficiency Outcomes      Medical Method
1. Reduction in    Vacancies for key           1. Better case           Audit of sample
shortage of     categories of staff            management            cases
manpower
2. Improvement     Measure skill levels        2. Rationalization of   Level and pattern
in skill        by survey                      health facilities    of service
levels                                         and staffing          utilization
3. Increased       Average no. of OPD                                    Consumer costs
staff           visits per (AMP+MO)                                  for services
productivity
Average no. of in-         3. Reduced by-passing   Survey of
patients per nurse            of facilities          cases at
attendant and laborer                                tertiary
Average no. of                                       institutions
deliveries attended
by PHM
4. Improved         Variance between           4. Reduced costs         Per episode cost
budgets         budgets and actual                                   to consumers
Effectiveness
Outcomes
5. Cost control    Bed occupancy rate at       5. Reduced morbidity    Hospital
admission           different institutions                               per 100,000
population
Average duration of                                 OPD visits per
stay                                                population
Total expenditure per                               Morbidity survey
inpatient day
Total expenditure per
outpatient
6. Improved         Proportion of people       6. Coordinated           Health needs of
service         living within 2 km             development of        different groups
delivery        of PHC services                sector                met equitably
Access Outcomes
Immunization coverage         Expansion of PHC      Access to PHC
Percent of school             Service delivery
children examined
No. of VHW in position
Contraceptive prevalence
7. Appropriate      Interface between public
policies        and private
Strategic plans and
matching resource
allocations



N      7
Page 2
-100-
B. Family Planning Component
Who makes
decisions           Rov
Activity/              Type of              with this            often/
Sub-Coponent         Purpose                method              lnformation            information          vhen                  Remarks
I.  Overall          Develop 6 update      Secondary & ter-    Key policy 6           Cabinet for some;   At least once per
Strategy         national policy,    tiary analysis of   Strategy alter-          Steering Committee  year
strategy             G052 policies,        natives & issues      for others
plans, lavs,
service stats. 6
surveys; workshop
Measure project      DES, analysis         Contraceptive pre-  Steering Comittee  Last project year   Similar to 1987
itp-ct of whole      workshop              valence - other                                                  DES baseline
program                                    demographic           IEC Committee
indicators
infant/child         Population
health               Division
Determine current   Couple survey          Family planning       IEC Comittee and    First Project Year
status of couples   (interview)            KAP                   FPASL
in Mahaweli area
II. Service          Monitor KOK & CDS   Project progress    Physical co_              Steering Committee  Quarterly
Delivery         renovations and       reports               pletion and
equiping clinics                           expenditure
Monitor changes In  Organitational         Service               Steering Commttee  Monchly collected;  This system will
numbere, types and  Records aggregated  statistics/              for major changes   quarterly analyzed  be isproved with
locations of         centrally             clinical records    - FHE and Pop.                               UNFPA support
acceptors                                                        Div. for minor
program adjust-
Sents
Define underlying   Household sample    Contraceptive and   Steering Committee   Once in 1990               Funded by UNPPA
causes of program   survey/Family          MCH KAP; national   for major changes                            project
probless; basus      Wealth Impact         Sample                and PHB/Pop.Div.
fir aid-term         Survey                                      for program
evaluation                                                       adjustments
Deteraine effec-    Pop. Div. IEC          Field reports;        FHB & Pop. Div.       Quarterly
tiveness of          staff spot checks;  Pre-Poet test           about program con-
training indl-       Training Reports-   reports practi-         tinuation and
genous practi-       Sample Survey         tioner and public    modification
tioners                                    attitudes
Ill. IEC             F.P. program and    Sample audience         Audience opinions,  IEC Co mittee;         Every new major
media                research as part    audience knowledge  Pop.Div. IEC;             program or cam-
response/reactions  of program devel-                            Worldview             paign; at least
learning             opment, pre-                                                      annual reaction
testing; reaction                                                surveys
surveys using
Determine level of  FPASL village          Program activity      IEC Comittee;        Quarterty             These systema are
program opera-       baselines, FPASL    and financial           FHB; Pop.Div. IEC                          already developed
tions, coverage,    activity reports,   data; couples            staff; FPASL                               and work well at
and acceptors for   Pop.Div. IEC staff  fertility prac-          managers                                   field and cen-
FPASL in Mahwali     spot visits           tices; supervisory                                               trally
and rest of                                observations
country
Determine numbers   SLAVSC and FBI         Service statistics  PYH  and Pop.Div       Quarterly for         Survey funded by
of persona coun-    record system;         adopters opinions   for program con-    service                  UNPPA project
selled and changes  injectables and        and practice          tinuation *nd        statistics;
in continuation      IUD aurveys                                 modification         injectable and I11D
rates for SLAVSC                                                                      surveys in 1989
program
Determine oper-      Training evalu-       Pre-Post test         1FC Comittee,         After major
ations and effec-   ations and spot        results; super-       Worldvewv mnagers  trainings; other-
tiveness of IBC      visits IEC staff    vision reports          Pop. Div.            wise quarterly
training



-101-                              ANNEX 8
Page 1
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Studies, Reports, Data Collections
1.   Health
A.1 Health Needs Assessment of the Mahaweli Development Systems--
John Snow, Inc., report for Ministries of Health and Mahaweli
Development, October, 1985.
A.2 Annual Health Bulletion of Sri Lankia, 1986. Ministry of
Health, Colombo.
2.   Family Planning
A.3 Needs Assessment for Population Assistance--United Nations Fund
for Population Assistance, Colombo, 1985.
3.  Other
A.4 A Public Investment Program 1985-89. National Planning
Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning, Colombo, 1985.
B.   Report and Studies Relevant to Project Design
1.   Management Component
a.   Proposals for IDA Financing--Ernst and Whitney, Colombo,
May,1987.
B.1 Financial Management and Budgetary Council--MH and MWATH
B.2 Human Resources Management--MH and MWATH
B.3 Management Development and Planning Units--MH and MWATH
B.4 Service Delivery Management for MH
B.5 Organizational Development for MWATH
B.6 Recommended Cost Recovery Mechanism for Patient Care
Facility
b.   Other Reports
B.7 Improvements in Health Care Service Deliverty Managemetn--
Matale and Calle districts--MH, Colombo, May, 1987.
B.8 Medium Term Health Services Development Plan, Matale and
Galle RDHS Divisions, MH, Colombo, May, 1987.
B.9  Calle District Health Plan for 1988, District Minister,
Galle, 1987.
B.10-llMatale/Polonnaruwa District Health Plans for 1985,
District Ministers, Matale/Polonnaruwa, 1986.
B.12 Needs Assessment for Application of Microcomputers to
(MH/MWATH) Management, Westinghouse Health Systems, USA,
July, 1985.



-102-                             ANNEX 8
Page 2
B.13 Material Inputs for Primary Healthe Care in Sri Lanka,
G.H. Pieris, Peradeniya, Sri Lanka, April, 1986.
B.14 Summary of National Health Development Plan, MH, Colombo,
1986.
B.15 Health Manpower Situation in Sri Lanka, Dr. S.C.A.
Fernando, MH, Colombo, January, 1986.
2.   Logistics Component
B.16 Logistics Reports by Marga Institute, Colombo, March-
April,l 987.
B.16a Drug Prescribing Practices and Utilization Habits in
Public Sector
B.16b Health Equipment Procurement and Maintenance
B.16c Logistics of Family Planning
B.16d Requires for Printed Forms
B.16e Sexually Transmitted Diseases
B.16f Specialized Campaigns--Filariasis, Malaria,
Tuberculosis
B.17 Plan of Operations for Malaria Control, 1987-91, MH,
Colombo, 1987.
3.   Family Planning Unit
B.18 Family Planning Component Report, Resources Development
Consultants, Colombo, February, 1987.
B.19 Sri Lanka Democratic and Health Survey 1987, GOSL
Department of Census and Statistics and Westinghouse
Institute for Resource Development Inc., USA, 1987.
B.20 Report of IEC Needs Assessment and Project Planning
Mission--Academy for Educational Development/Production
Communication Services.  The Johns Hopkins University,
USA, 1984.
B.21 Medium-Term Plan, 1985-89, MH Family Health Bureau,
Colombo, 1984.
4.   General
B.20 Requst for [IDA] Project Assistance in Health Management,
Logistics and Family Planning, GOSL, May, 1987.



SRI LANKA
Health & Family Planning Project
A Comparison of Existing Care Delivery System and New PHC Model
Existing Facilities                                                     New PHC Model
Level                             No.    Conversion          No.                             Facility                       Level
Tertiary      Teaching Hospital    4  3
Speciality Hospital    7                                           Teaching
Hospitals
Provincial Hospital    8                      8                    Provincial                                  Referral
Base Hospital   18Upgrade            17  .      2            District / 24 \
Base Hospital  15                I-   24          ~~~~~~~Hospitals
+ New -       7i                            /     99 \
/   DistrictD
/   Hospitalss\
Secondary    District Hospital    114-
Upgrade     155
Peripheral Unit    110                           ]     199                       730
_+ Now -        44- 73\l
Rural Hospital     112                                                      Sub-Divisional
Health Centers
Primary
Primary       Maternities
Cerntral Dispensary            Upgrade     538         7/
545  ~  ~     ~     I-730
+ New -    218                    / 
Rest Home                                                                        31  
3511
Gramodaya
Adopt other   110                             Health Center
Facilities              3511
Community    No base                                               3511
ealth                           ~~~~~~~~~~~+ New  -  3870                                                                 n
*t
Source: Ministry -of Health, Improvements to the Health Care Delivery System:   .                                       cak\w40907a
Primary Health Care Infrastructure Development.



SRI LANKA
Health & Family Planning Project
Structure of Regional Health Services
Regional Director
of Health
Services (RDHS)
RDHS Office
Medical Officer.                                                     Medical Officer.
Maternal-Child Health;                                               Maternal-Child Health;
Regional Dental                                                      Regional Dental         .
Surgeon; Staff                                                      Surgeon; Staff
.~~Provincial/Base
Hospital
Patient Care                        Medical Officer                           Divisional Health
Institutions                          of Health                              Divisional Health                                   °
I                 Center per 60.000
Provincial/Base Hospital             .                                 population)
District Hospitals          Public Health
stafft
Peripheral Units                                                     Sub-Divisional
Peripheral Units                                                     Health Center
(One per 20.000
Rural Hospitals                                                        population)
Central Dispensaries
Gramodaya
Maternity Houses                                                     Health Center
(One per 3.000)
Ci
ACTUAL
-PROPOSED                                                   -5*4.,
Cak\w4iD907&



SRI LANKA
Hcalth & Family Planning Project
Organization Structure - Ministry of Health
Minister of Health
Deputy Minister
lIIIIIIII l                         Ministry of
Incigenous
Secretary Health                            Medicine
Additlonal
Secretary
Administration                         Director General
Health Services
Deputy Director            Deputy Director            Deputy Director            Deputy Director            DeDuty Director
GBenberal                  General                 General Public          General Development               General
Medcal Services             Administration            Health Services              and Planning                  Finance
Deputy Director                                                                 Additional Deputy
GBeneral                                                                     Director GBeneral
Laboratory Services    CHANGE TO                                CHANGE TO           Internal Aucit
DePUtY Director                                           Addlitional Deputy iDirector
General Human                                          General Management Develop-
Resources Management                                            ment & Planning Unit
,......... ... ...... . .....   ......... . ...........                   ..................... ... .....,..     .,:.,. .. ..., . 
Director       Director       Director      Director    Director        Director      Director      Director    Director         N
Technical    Non-Technical  Compensation    Career    Employee        Orgarizational Management    Planning      Health
Employment    Employment                   Development  Relations       Development.    Training                Information
and Human      and Human                                                Plarm    and                             System
Resources      Resources                                                Information
Information    Information                                               Systems
System         System
ACTUAL
- - * - -  - PROPOSED                                                                                                  ck\w40907b



SRI LANKA
Health & Family Planning Project
Organization Structure - Ministry of Women's Affairs and Teaching Hospitals
Minister of Womens Affairs
and Teaching Hospitals
Deputy Minister of Womens
Affairs and Teaching Hospitals
Chairman
Sri Jayawardenapura                        Secretary MWATH
General Hospital                       l
Director General
Teaching Hospitals
..~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~~~.....   ------------
Deputy Director        Deputy Director        Deputy Director        Deputy Director        Deputy Director         Deputy Director       °
MedicalGServices       General                G     l                Generai  General Management::                  General
Mecical Services      Technical Services       Administration                               Devlopennano             Internal Audit
*                                  *    Planning Unit
-  -........ ....
CHANGE TO
*                                 Director          Director
--------- t ---------          Organizational     Management
Deputy Director  :                Development,        Training
Deputy Director                        Planning and
* General Human       *Information
Resources Management ;Systms
,   *  *   - *-I-  -    -, -- *--  *s.
.  . .  ...      . .. ..  .    ..
Director        Director         Director
Technical    Non-Technical    Compensatiot%
Employment    Employment           Career
and Human      and Human        Development
Resources      Resources        and i _                                                              u
Information    Information        ReatiVo
ACTUAL                      System          System
- - - - - -PROPOSED                                                                                                         Cak\w40007c



SRI LANKA
Health & Family Planning Projqct
Management Development and Planning Units (MDPUs)
Organization Chart
Ministry of Women s
Minstry of Health              MDPU STEERING COMMITTEE                     Affairs and Teaching
(Secretary. Health:                                  Hospitals
Secretary, Women's Affairs and
Teaching Hospitals:
Secretary              Deputy Directors General, Health                     Secretary
and Teaching Hospitals:
Deputy Directors General, MDPUs:
Heath Servie               Ministry of Finance and Planning
irecator General,           Representative:                                 Director General
Health Services    Two non-Government Representatives)                      I
Deputy Director                                                             Deputy Director
General. MDPU                                                               General, MDPU
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Advisor                                              Advisor
r         1-            |                              I               I
Director      Director      Director      Director                                      Director          Director
Organization  Management    Planning         Health                                     Organization      Management
Development     Training                  Information                                   Development,         Training
Services                                    Planning and
Information
Systems
Administration Administration Administration Administration                             Administration    Administration
Officer:      Officer;      Officer;      Officer;                                      Officer:          Offficer;
Assistant     Assistant     Assistant     Assistant                                     Assistant         Assistant
Director:     Director:    Directors (2);    Director;                                  Director,         Director:               c
Planning      Planning      Planning      Planning                                      Planning          Planning                 p,
Of ficer      Officer       Officer       Officer                                       Officer           Officer                '1
rt
I., ,,- ,. 
cak\w40907d



-108-                                 CHART 5
SRI LANKA
Health & Family Planning Proj-ct
Organizational Chart
Ministry of Plan Implementation
Population Division
DIRECTOR
|Research. Trairnng. ||District Population  ||District Population|
& &Evaluation nit                LCommittee Unit                      Committee Unit 
j   Deputy Director   |      j   Deputy Director                    Deputy Drector
Assistant Director                Assistant Director                Assistant Director
'  Assist~ant DirectorD_Officer et2 Assistant Directors'
Special Service                    Development                    Plan Implementation
Officer                           Officer                           Officer
Special Service                      Libraria
Officer                          Libraran
Chief Clerk                       2 Assistant
English Steno                   2 IEC Assistants
English Typist                  Editorial Assistant
2 Sinhala Typists
3 Drivers
L      3 Laborers
Ac|ACTUAL
PROPOSED
cak\w4 1093



IBRD 19985
S         .e      S.Ri LANKA
v-  ;H--.EALTH AND FAMILY
-PLANNING PROJECT
Service Delivery
Areas
Elevattons
In Feet-
o   100
, _b~~~~~~~~~0  - Soo 
500 - 3000
A104 PAEaN                                   3000 - vu  _  5000
ManD                C"' ,/    ;  wr   8Over 6000   9*
\t  .Jh4hDLnnaA    \          >e    ':             o  District Capitals
Province
g  ,    Vavunlya                    0,$|\\   V   Capital
National Capital
, Dstrict
Boundaries
*     ampe z (ns   UA KA                                   A        7W,FA1V
OOLOMBO  CL C #8
'aSPPs SP0    etol  fp PI
,npm,M  uos./e of To _Wa fi Sank,H  ' 
ranr tnt flMOna$ Pnen_
Co'por*&o, a p.Snpmntons k      s:vES    V                           IE
,,Pan e    bonedanme on.,shfr3 i)                     gb      0   10   20   30
an>d-a-,' aorCs.Pd-Fg o GALLS                                 0' -o tC20 30 40 50
seh nw gg  J ~ ' 2Mata                                   KILOMEtERS
DECEMBER 1987






IBRD 21017
SRI LANKA 
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT 
AREAS FOR PRIMARY HEALTH CARE (PHC) COMPLEXES                                                                                                                                         TRINCOMALEE
PHC Areas
-   Project Disftict Bo.ndories
District Slbdlivisions
-   District Boundaries
'k    National Capital                                                         0      5     15    15    20
KILOMETERS
I ~~~~~~0              5         1 5
MILES
ANURADHAPU RA
I ATICALOA
S                     1 -                                                                                            7
'6  I  ,,  ~~.    51                                                  ZOMATAR
0' r   505
0         5         tO6 i~  l2                                                                                                                                                                                              -b
I K                        -,-fM EOOCOI 6b
APRIL 19t85



