Docurient of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15763
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNINC PROJECT
(CREDIT 1903-CE)
JUNE 20, 1996
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Year Average $US I = Rs. 30
Completion Year Average $US 1 = Rs. 50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kim) = 0.62 miles (mi)
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR: JANUARY I-DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC         - Anti-Malaria Campaign
ARTI       - Agrarian Research and Training Center
DDG        - Deputy Director-General
DDHS        - Divisional Director of Health Services
GHC         - Gramodava (Village) Health Center
HRD         - Humani Resources Development
HRIS        - Hluman Resources Information System
IDA         - Internationial Development Association
IEC        - Informationi, Education and Communication
MCH        - Maternal-Child Health
MDPU        - Managemenit Development and Planning Unit
MOII        - Ministry ot Health
NGO         - Non-Governlmenit Organization
PHC         - Primary Health Care
PHM         - Public Health Midwife
PHN        - Population. Health and Nutrition
PPF         - Project Preparation Facility
SAR         - Staff Appraisal Report
SDHC        - Sub-Divisional Health Center
TFR         - Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA      - United Nations Population Fund
WHO         - World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Table of Contents
Pane No.
Preface ..........................................................
Evaluation  Summarv   ......            ........................................ii
Part 1:  Project Implementation  Assessment  ...............................
Background   .......              ............... ..                   ........................
Statement/Evaluation  of Project Objectives   ............                      ..1............ 
Achievement of Project Objectives  ...... ....................                   .                                   2
Implementation  Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  ..........                          .                4
Project Sustainability .........................                                                                     9
IDA  Performance                      ............................................                                  10
Borrower Performance                  .....................                 ....................                     11
Assessment of Outcome  ........                  ........... ..               ...................                    12
Future Operation                ......................                  ......................                       12
Key Lessons Learned                   .....................                 ....................                     13
Part II: Statistical Annexes  ...........................................                                                     14
Table    1:  Summary  of Assessments                 .......................... ...                                  15
Table    2:  Related Bank Credits   .............................. ...                                               17
Table    3:  Project Timetable   .................................. ..                                               18
Table   4:  Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........                                          19
Table    5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation                              ..................              20
Table   6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation   ......................                                           21
Table   7   Studies Included  in Project   .......................... ...                                           25
Table 8A:  Project Costs  .................................... ...                                                  27
Table  8B:  Project Financing   ................................ ...                                                27
Table    9:  Economic Costs and Benefits  .................                           ...      ........             N.A.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants . .. . ..                                                 .............         28
Table  11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                                 ..............            N.A.
Table  12:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs                           ...........................                     29
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ........................... ...                                               30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                             l



Appendixes: A. Post-Project Management Letter ..........................                               31
B. Borrower's Summary and Evaluation   ...........                       ......        33
C. Cofinancier Contribution to the ICR  .......................                        N.A.
D. Miscellaneous Appendixes
1. Fertility and Family Planning: 1987; 1983  ................                     37
2. Summary of Technical Assistance for Management ....               ......        38
3. Summary of the Recommendations of the
Health Strategy and Financing Study  ....................                       41
Map: IBRD No. IBRD 28020



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT (CREDIT 1903-CE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Health and Family
Planning Project in Sri Lanka. for whichi Credit 1903-CE in the amount of SDR 12.9 (US$17.5
million equivalent) million was approved oni July 13, 1988 and made effective on April 4, 1989.
The Credit was closed on September 30, 1995 compared with the original Closing Date
of September 30, 1994. The undisbursed balance of SDR 1,362,535.03 was canceled effective
February 16, 1996, the date on which the final transaction, a refund of US$467,616.13, took place.
The ICR was prepared by Frances Plunkett, SAIPH, of the South Asia Region and
reviewed by Barbara Herz, Chief. SAIPH, and Fakhruddin Ahmed, Project Advisor, SAIDR. The
Borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix B of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
October 1995. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by preparation of a project completion report, a summary of the project completion
report, and comments on a draft of the ICR that have been incorporated into the final report.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.         The project was the first project in the Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN) sectors
to be assisted by the International Development Association in Sri Lanka. There were no co-
financiers.
Project Objectives
2.         Objectives. The Staff Appraisal Report states three project objectives, to (i) strengthen
management of the government health system; (ii) increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
the health logistics system; and (iii) promote lower fertility and improved matemal and child health
through increased and more effective use of contraception. These objectives were to be achieved
through three major components: Health Management Improvement, Logistics, and Family
Planning. Additionally, in support of service delivery objectives, three special programs, to reduce
the prevalence of malnutrition, malaria, and gastro-intestinal infections, were assisted. These
objectives reflected Bank health sector priorities for Sri Lanka and were consistent with the Bank's
country assistance strategy. However, the effort to cover such a broad range of management, policy
and service delivery objectives resulted in a complex project whose objectives were inconsistent
with the priorities of the implementing Ministrv of Health, which focused on service delivery.
3.         Achievement of Obiectives  Project service delivery objectives (objective (iii), a part
of objective (i) and the special programs) were generally achieved; management and policy
achievements (objectives (i) and (ii)) were limited. Under the Health Management Improvement
component. a Management Development & Planning Unit (MDPU) established in the Ministry of
Health (MOH) contributed to strengthened management of the health system, particularly in the
areas of prospective planning and management training. A Health Strategy and Financing Study
was completed and provided important inputs for a follow-on project. In three divisional (sub-
district) areas, strengthening of primary health care infrastructure was linked with improved
matemal-child health coverage and increased use of modem contraceptives. For Family Planning.
survey data for 1987 and 1993 indicate an increase in contraceptive prevalence from 61.7% to
66.1% and a corresponding decline in the total fertility rate from 2.8 to 2.3, suggesting that
replacement fertility of approximately 2.1 will be achieved well before the government's target date
of 2005. Use of temporary contraceptive methods rose by 5.7 points. Under Special Programs. the
malaria progran achieved substantial reductions in numbers of detected cases in four high-
prevalence districts. The gastro-intestinal diseases program was effective in improving knowledge
and practice related to their prevention. However, neither human resources, financial, nor logistics



- iii -
management objectives were achieved. A pilot for a nutrition program achieved no significant
impact and was canceled.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.         Major Factors Affecting the Proiect. Civil conflict in many parts of the Island in 1988-
90 disrupted public institutions, including medical facilities and training institutions, some of which
were closed for varying periods. Consequent training and staffing delays were resolved, however,
by project-end. Additionally, the long-standing civil conflict in the northem and eastern regions
continued through the entire project. Although there was little direct impact on project
implementation outside the affected areas, there was a major decentralization of governmental
authority, including the health services, to the provinces in 1989. In consequence, a long overdue
reorganization of primary health care was carried out, and project support was adapted to the new
system. However desirable in principle, the changes in what had previously been a highly
centralized system created confusion and uncertainty, and their administrative and financial
implications are still being worked out. The provision of health services appears to have been
maintained adequately.
5.         Implementation Record. The project was planned as a five-year operation. It became
effective in April 1989 and was implemented by the Ministry of Health. Prior to the mid-term
review (December 1992), project management was poor and there were major implementation
difficulties; however, following a subsequent mutually agreed revision of the project that eliminated
most management improvement activities and expanded service delivery support, and a change in
project management, implementation improved dramatically. The project was never formally
restructured, although almost 40% of the credit was canceled in 1994. A one-year extension of the
Credit Closing Date, to September 30, 1995, permitted achievement of many of the project's
physical targets. In local currency terms, project expenditures were about 94% of the original
estimate.
6.         The Health Manaaement Improvement component was not fully implemented. Neither
personnel nor financial management in MOH was reorganized, the data base for a Human Resources
Infonnation System (HRIS) was not completed. and delayed completion of a Health Strategy and
Financing Study prevented policy-related follow up. However, the MDPU was established and
contributed to strengthened management of the health system through management training and
prospective planning activities. Technical assistance tasks in support of improved management were
largely completed, but utilization was limited. Civil works and training activities of the service
delivery subcomponent to strengthen primary health care in three selected divisional (sub-district)
areas were completed and achieved their goals. Under the Logistics component drug stores and
vehicle maintenance facilities were constructed, but a unified management system was not
accomplished. The Family Planning component successfully implemented a package of
infrastructure, training and communications inputs. Of the three Special Programs the introduction
of a revised malaria control strategy achieved substantial results. The gastro-intestinal diseases
program combined training of health staff and community members supported by a communications
prograrn to improve prevention and treatment of these diseases. However. a pilot for a nutrition
program achieved no significant impact and was cancelled.



- iv -
7.         Sustainabilitv. Sustainability of project investments should be assessed in the context
of public health services in Sri Lanka, which have achieved impressive results and have been
considered a priority by successive governments. One indication of government commitment is that
incremental recurrent costs, with the exception of those for the special programs, were borne by
Government throughout the project. The unanticipated provincialization of the health services,
which gave the provincial governments responsibility for staffing and maintenance of most of the
facilities constructed with project assistance, has given rise to questions about the sustainability of
the decentralized health services generally. The provincial governments are known to operate under
serious resource constraints, and in particular maintenance of small facilities in scattered areas is
likely to be a problem. Nevertheless, since provincialization the health system has continued to
provide the good quality health services for which Sri Lanka is well known and, given the
importance of these services in Sri Lanka, can be expected to continue to do so.
8.         IDA Performance. IDA played an active role in project preparation, including
provision of a project preparation facility which supported national consultancies and subsequent for
development of project components. It is difficult to justify the complex management-oriented
project recommended by the appraisal mission, given the known risk of relying on the Ministry of
Health to implement management reforms. After effectiveness the project foundered on lack of
"ownership" by the implementing MOH and the management aspects were largely unimplemented.
Given the risks, it would have been more realistic to have limited the number of reform activities
rather than attempt to accomplish such a complex reform package in a single project. An IDA
effort to develop a pilot Nutrition program despite lack of Ministry support also failed. Particularly
in the first half of the project, IDA supervision was technically strong, with good continuity.
However, while management letters in the early stages reflected IDA's concem about poor
implementation, no concrete actions were taken prior to the mid-term review.
9.         Borrower Performance. Borrower performance during project preparation and the first
half of the project was poor, including failure of the Ministries of Finance and Health to coordinate
their approaches, lack of commitment to the project by the implementing Health Ministry, and
seriously deficient project management. Relations between the project coordinator and many MOH
officers were strained, and there were major delays in procurement of equipment, furmiture, supplies
and utilities. However, MOH organized a thorough mid-term review and took steps to ensure
improvements in the light of an extremely critical report. IDA and MOH jointly revised the project,
eliminating unrealistic management objectives and expanding service delivery support. Additionally,
a new project coordinator was appointed, and implementation improved dramatically. MOH also
prepared a very useful project completion report.
10.        Management of project accounts and submission of disbursement applications were
satisfactory. However, procurement activities suffered from lack of adequate understanding by
project staff conceming IDA procurement requirements and procedures. The Borrower was not in
compliance with covenants relating to staffing for most of the project, but when the Credit closed
only two covenants relating to health financing and policy remained unmet. These areas are
expected to be covered in a follow-on project.
11.        Assessment of Rroiect outcome. This project is difficult to categorize as generally
"satisfactory" or "unsatisfactory" because its results were so mixed. The original complex project
quickly proved to be unrealistic and unimplementable, although after a mid-term revision



-v -
implementation was excellent. Despite the many handicaps, the project accomplished significant
service delivery, institutional development, and research goals. However, important aspects of
project appraisal, implementation and supervision were clearly unsatisfactory. Given these
problems, as well as failure to achieve many of the project's objectives. on balance the project is
rated "unsatisfactory."
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.         Future Operation. An IDA mission in October 1995 discussed with Govemment
project sustainabilitv issues and continuation of project-supported activities. Project-supported
primary health care and family planning service delivery and IEC activities were implemented as
part of ongoing programs and will continue to be supported, as will management training of
Divisional Directors of Health Services. Government is aware of operational and maintenance
issues arising from provincialization of the health services: however, Govermment is considering
additional decentralization measures and provision for support of operation and maintenance
responsibilities is not yet clear. The proposed follow-on Health Services Project, which is expected
to become effective in the second half of 1996, would continue support to the Anti-Malaria
Campaign, the MDPU, and the HRIS and would begin the effort to address health policy and
financing issues incorporating the recommendations of the Health Policy and Financing Study.
13.        Findings and Kev Lessons Learned. The key lessons to be learned from project
experience relate to the importance of "ownership" by the implementing ministry. Failure by IDA
to take adequate account of the priorities of the implementing ministry and to ensure that senior
managers in the ministry understood and supported project assistance strategies seriously
compromised implementation, a situation that was exacerbated by the complexity of the project.
Additionally, the importance of effective project management and the need for greater familiarity by
project staff with IDA procurement guidelines and procedures were apparent. The frank mid-term
assessment of project status carried out by the implementing ministry provided a framework for
revision of the project that facilitated successful implementation in the project's second half These
lessons were carefully taken into account in the design and development of the follow-on project as
well as orientation of project staff.



- I -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH & FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Project Identity
Name:         Health & Family Planning Project
Credit:       1903-CE
RVP Unit:    South Asia
Country:      Sri Lanka
Sector:       Population, Health & Nutrition
Background
1.    The Health & Family Planning Project was the first project in the Population, Health and
Nutrition (PHN) sectors in Sri Lanka to be assisted by the International Development Association
(IDA). There were no co-financiers.
Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.     The Staff Appraisal Report states three project objectives: to (i) strengthen management of
the government health system; (ii) increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the health logistics
system; and (iii) promote lower fertility and improved maternal and child health through increased
and more effective use of contraception. Management objectives included improvements in the areas
of human resources management, financial management, planning capacity and service delivery, as
well as a major health strategy and financing study to provide the basis for identification of needed
health policy and financing initiatives. Additionally, in support of service delivery objectives, three
special programs, to reduce the prevalence of malnutrition. malaria and gastro-intestinal infections,
were assisted.
3.     Project objectives reflected Bank health sector priorities for Sri Lanka, which are consistent
with the Bank's country assistance strategy: to sustain and improve the health services, which have
achieved excellent results in terms of demographic and mortality indicators but face a shift in disease
patterns from communicable to non-communicable diseases as the population ages; and to address key
health policy and financing issues concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of public services and
the role of the private sector in circumstances of increasingly constrained resources. However, the
effort to cover all of the objectives noted above resulted in a complex project, and the emphasis on
management improvements and policy changes proved to be inconsistent with the priorities of the
implementing ministry, which focused on service delivery. In the early part of the project it became
clear that most of the project's management objectives were unrealistic and unimplementable.



-2 -
Achievement of Project Objectives
Summary of Project Implementation and Achievements
1. Health Management Improvement
Human Resources Management               reorganization and reorientation of existing
DDG (Admin) unit not implemented; data base
for a Human Resources Information System
partially established
Financial Management &                   not implemented; canceled
Budget Control
Management Development &                 established; in-service management training
Planning Unit                            and prospective planning supported
Health Sector Policy Development         delayed completion of study deferred
utilization of findings to follow-on project
Service Delivery                         DDHS system and in-service training in
selected project districts supported; MCH
improvements achieved
2. Logistics                                    unified system not implemented
Drug & Supplies Management               implementation limited to civil works
Vehicle & Equipment Maintenance          implementation limited to civil works
3. Family Planning                             improvement of services and fertility reduction
objectives achieved
Special Programs
Nutrition                                canceled after unsuccessful
implementation
Malaria                                 implementation of revised malaria control
strategy in four high-prevalence districts
supported; significant reduction in number of
cases achieved
Gastro-intestinal infections            improvement in related knowledge and practice
in selected project districts achieved



- 3 -
4.     Project achievements are summarized in the table above. Consistent with the priorities of the
implementing Ministry of Health, project service delivery objectives (the service delivery
subcomponent of component 1, component 3, and the special programs in the table above) were
generally achieved, with the notable exception of the special program for nutrition: management and
policy objectives (components I and 2 in the table above) were not. The following paragraphs review
the achievements of the individual components and subcomponents.
5.     Health Management Improvement. A Management Development & Planning Unit (MDPU)
established under a new Deputy Director General Planning in the Ministry of Health contributed to
strengthened management of the health system, particularly in the areas of in-service management
training and prospective planning (para. 21).
6.     A planned Health Strategy and Financing Study was completed. However, since results were
not available until almost the end of the project, health sector policy development linked to study
results was deferred to a follow-on project (para. 23).
7.    In three divisional (sub-district) areas, strengthening of primary health care infrastructure was
clearly linked with improved maternal-child health (MCH) coverage, including increases in early
registration of pregnant women, post-natal visits, use of modern contraceptives methods, and
decreases in deliveries by untrained persons (para. 24). A baseline survey was carried out too late in
the project to provide a basis for impact assessment.
8.     Neither reorganization and reorientation of the Health Ministry's unit for personnel
management nor reorganization and rationalization of financial management and budget control in the
Ministry was achieved. Implementation of a Human Resources Information System was begun, but
the system was not yet functioning when the project ended (paras. 18-20).
9.     Logistics. Completion of planned civil works supported drug and supplies management as
well as vehicle and equipment maintenance activities. However, a unified system intended to achieve
improvements in the effectiveness and efficiency of the Ministry's logistics arrangements was not
implemented (paras. 26-28).
10.   Family Planning. Survey data for 1987 and 1993 (Appendix D. 1) indicate an increase in
contraceptive prevalence (the proportion of couples with wife of reproductive age practicing
contraception) from 61.7 % to 66.1 %, and a corresponding decline in the total fertility rate, from 2.8
to 2.3. These data suggest that replacement fertility of approximately 2.1 will be achieved well
before the Government's target date of 2005. Overall prevalence of modern contraception increased
by 3.1 percentage points, from 40.6% to 43.7%; sterilization fell by 2.6 points but use of temporary
contraceptive methods, a specific project objective, rose by 5.7 points. It is reasonable to conclude
that major project support for the family planning program contributed significantly to the increase in
contraceptive prevalence and therefore to fertility decline (para. 29).
11.    Special Programs. The malaria project supported a revised WHO malaria control strategy in
four high-prevalence districts that achieved substantial reductions in the numbers of detected cases
following its introduction in 1993. Over the period 1993-95, the number of detected cases in the four
districts declined to between one fourth and one third of previous levels. While it is probable that
weather conditions and the natural malaria cycle played a part in these reductions, the revised malaria



- 4 -
control program was considered to be the major factor responsible (para. 32). Pre- and post-
intervention surveys indicated that the gastro-intestinal diseases program was effective in improving
knowledge and practice related to prevention of these diseases (para. 33). However. lack of a
baseline precluded an epidemiological assessment. A pilot for a nutrition program achieved no
significant impact and was canceled (para. 31).
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.    At the time the project was appraised in 1987, two ministries were responsible for the health
sector, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Women's Affairs & Teaching Hospitals, while the
Population Division of the Ministry of Plan Implementation was the focal point for most population
activities. In 1990, the two health ministries were combined and the Population Division was shifted
to the Ministry of Health. The reconstituted ministry was known as the Ministry of Health &
Women's Affairs. After a change of government in 1994, the Ministry of Health was reorganized as
the Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services. /
13.   Project development began with discussions among IDA and the ministries concerned with the
health and population sectors, including the Ministry of Finance. A number of key management
issues considered essential to expansion of the capacities of the then health ministries as well as
aspects of the health services requiring operational support were identified. Local consultancies to
develop proposals in these areas were funded through a project preparation facility. Workshops
covering the major topics were held; participants included a wide range of stake holders from the
medical profession and academic and research institutions as well as Government. The project that
emerged, with the apparent support of the major stake holders, was complex and ambitious. In
addition to support for family planning and primary health care programs, it called for major
innovations in the health ministries: reorganization and reorientation of personnel functions (human
resources management); revamping of financial management and budget control; creation of a new
DDG unit for the unfamiliar areas of health planning and management; a major health strategy and
financing study leading to initiatives in controversial areas of health policy: and development of a
unified logistics system dealing with the always contentious area of pharmaceuticals.
14.   The project was planned as a five-year project. It became effective in April 1989,
approximately 11 months after approval by the Board and 18 months after appraisal. After 1990 it
was implemented solely by the Ministry of Health (MOH). Prior to the mid-term review carried out
in December 1992, there were major implementation difficulties, and the project was listed as a
problem project. After the mid-term review, an effective project coordinator was appointed and the
project was revised by mutual agreement between IDA and the Ministry of Health: the management
and policy activities were largely eliminated or deferred and the service delivery activities expanded.
Project management and implementation improved dramatically. The project was never formally
restructured, although almost 40% of the credit was canceled in 1994. A one-year extension of the
Credit Closing Date, to September 30, 1995, permitted achievement of many of the project's physical
targets. In local currency terms, actual project expenditures were about 94% of the original estimated
total project cost (Table 8A). Project expenditures reflected the mid-term revision: expenditures on
1/  For convenience, the "Ministry of Health" is referred to throughout.



I- D -
civil works and goods were 82% and 26% higher than original estimates, respectively, while other
categories were lower (Table 8A).
15.    Several factors affected project implementation at the outset. First, rivalry between the two
health ministries complicated initial implementation and increased the resistance of the Ministry of
Health to management improvements. Second, civil conflict in many parts of the Island in 1988-90
disrupted public institutions, including medical facilities, some of which were closed for varying
periods. Training of doctors and other medical staff was interrupted, which delayed staffing of
medical facilities supported by the project. This difficulty was resolved by the time the project ended.
16.   Third, the long-standing civil conflict in the northern and eastern regions of Sri Lanka
continued throughout the entire project period, making implementation of activities in these areas
impossible, although there was little direct effect on the project otherwise. However, in response to
civil and ethnic conflict, there was a major decentralization of governmental authority to the provinces
in 1989, which included the health services, and further decentralization to the divisional level was
introduced in 1993. As part of provincialization, a long overdue reorganization of primary health
care was carried out. Project support for delivery of primary health care in three project areas was
adapted to the new system (paras. 24-25). However desirable in principle, the changes in what had
previously been a highly centralized system created confusion and uncertainty, and their
administrative and financial implications are still being worked out. The provision of health services
appears to have been maintained adequately, and several examples of encouraging local and provincial
initiatives can be cited.
17.    The project's implementation experience reflected the priorities and strengths of the
implementing Ministry of Health. Those components and subcomponents concerned with service
delivery--family planning, primary health care, malaria, gastro-intestinal infections--were by and large
successfully implemented. However, as noted above, with the major exception of the Management
Planning & Development Unit (para. 21), the Ministry of Health never implemented the management
aspects of the project. The following paragraphs summarize the implementation record of the
individual project components and subcomponents.
18.    Health Manazement Improvement - Human Resource Development.  The project called for
the creation of a human resources development (HRD) unit in the Ministry of Health through
reorientation of the existing unit under the Deputy Director General (Admin), to be redesignated
DDG (HRD), and the incorporation of all HRD functions carried out in the Ministry into the HRD
unit. The reorientation did not take place, agreed incremental staff was not recruited, and the unit
continued to do traditional establishment work. Of seven proposed studies, only two with a direct
bearing on establishment matters were carried out (Table 7).
19.    The development of a computerized Human Resources Information system (HRIS) was
undertaken to improve personnel records, procedures, and management. With consultant assistance,
considerable progress was made in designing the system, obtaining data from health facilities, and
establishing a database. However, at the end of the project the data base for the system had not been
completed and provision of additional data required from central and provincial facilities was
uncertain. HRIS was as not functioning as a system and will not become sustainable unless input and
updating of records are linked to a larger human resources development effort and specifically to



- 6 -
promotions and transfers. The post of Director (HRIS) was created only late in the project and by
project-end had not been filled.
20.   Health Management Improvement - Financial & Budgetarv Control. The objective of this
subcomponent was to strengthen health management at central and peripheral levels by designing and
implementing financial management and budget control systems and streamlining operational
procedures. The systems were to cover budgeting, resource allocation, financial and management
accounting, and evaluation of financial performance as related to program outputs. Nothing was done
to implement these activities: agreed incremental staff was not appointed, no in-service training was
done, and no consultant services tor the design of new systems were utilized. The mid-term review
mission therefore recommended that the sub-component be canceled.
21.   Health Management Improvement - Management and Planning. The project supported the
creation of a Management Development and Planning Unit (MDPU) in the Ministry of Health headed
by a Deputy Director General Planning and staffed by four Directors for planning, management
training, organizational development and management information. Although all director posts were
initially staffed, due to subsequent turnover at no time during the project were all of them filled. The
concept of management development was new to the Ministry and was not understood by some of
those staffing the MDPU, let alone the rest of the Ministry. Only about half of agreed supporting and
administrative positions were filled, and information systems development was not undertaken.
Nevertheless, by project-end the MDPU was functioning. Available study tours and training
programs for staff were utilized. The MDPU carried out a number of planned activities, including in-
service management training for DDHSs and other health staff (Table 6), needs assessment and
curriculum development for nursing officers, a ten-year Perspective Plan for Health, annual
development plans for the Ministry, and other studies (Table 7). Given the well-known difficulties of
establishing new institutional units as well as the staffing difficulties encountered, the
accomplishments of the MDPU were considerable. Measures to expand understanding of the role and
function of the MDPU in the Ministry would have helped the Unit to become better established. A
consultant report on the organization and functioning of the Unit was completed in 1994 but not
utilized.
22.   Health Management Improvement - Technical Assistance. The project supported a major
international technical assistance consultancy for management support covering financial and
administrative manuals, HRIS, a health planning data base, hospital management, health management
training, staffing and organization of the MDPU, and health manpower requirements; total cost was
US$1.0 million. The consultancy tasks were linked to the management improvement components, so
that although most expected activities and products were completed (Appendix D.2), effectiveness was
uneven. In those cases where there was genuine interest on the part of MOH (e.g. hospital
management, health management training), accomplishments were substantial. Where Ministry
commitment was lacking, however, utilization and follow up are uncertain or unlikely (e.g. HRIS,
health manpower analysis). In the case of administrative manuals, it became clear that detailed
knowledge of existing procedures was required and the task was turned over to national consultants.
The limited impact of the technical assistance was a reflection of the lack of commitment on the part
of MOH which constrained implementation of the management improvement component generally. In
retrospect, given the outlook of the Ministry and the project implementation difficulties which became
evident early in the project, IDA approval of an expensive, multi-task international technical
assistance contract seems questionable. A more carefully focused approach, taking account of MOH



capacities and utilizing national expertise wherever possible, would have been less costly and probably
more effective.
23.    Health Management Improvement - Health Sector Policy Development. This sub-component
supported a Health Strategy and Financing Study whose objectives were to: (i) compile a
comprehensive data base on availability of health services, including utilization and costs, (ii) analyze
the causes of current problems of the health care system, including health care financing; and
(iii) examine various policy options in terms of improving efficiency and equity of services. The
study was to be prepared by an expert consultant and completed by 1992, agreed recommendations
were to be implemented by the Ministry, and the findings were to provide the basis for further health
policy research. In fact, the study did not begin until 1992 and was completed in 1995, near the end
of the project. Total cost was approximately $500,000. A workshop to review preliminary results
was held in June 1994. Although a subsequent workshop planned to discuss the results and
recommendations of the final report never took place, study findings were utilized in the preparation
of the health policy component of the follow-on project (para. 47). The study's recommendations are
summarized in Appendix D.3.
24.    Health Management Improvement - Service Delivery. The goals of the service delivery sub-
component of the management component were to strengthen the primary health care (PHC)
infrastructure and to provide in-service training. The project supported a PHC model previously
adopted by Government which called for a three-tiered structure of village health centers (GHCs),
subdivisional health centers (SDHCs) and divisional health centers (DHCs). After the health services
were decentralized in 1989 and reorganized on a divisional basis under the newly created post of
Divisional Director of Health Services (DDHS), project support was adapted to the new system and
infrastructure was strengthened in a pilot division in each of three project districts. By the time of the
mid-term review, about 80% of planned works had been completed and all vehicles had been
procured. Following the mid-term review, it was agreed that the project would further support the
new DDHS system through assistance for DDHS offices and quarters as well as mini-labs and
emergency treatment units in peripheral hospitals in the project districts, and additional assistance
along these lines was included in the extension year. Once the provincial health services were fairly
well established, responsibility for implementing the service delivery aspects of the project,
particularly civil works, was given to the provincial health departments, with the project coordinator
monitoring provincial activities through regular field visits and review meetings. This approach
provided good results.
25.   Although delays in provision of equipment, furniture, electricity and water, and in
appointment of sufficient numbers of staff, were experienced, the position by the end of the project
was satisfactory. It was observed that virtually all GHCs, which combine living quarters and clinic
space, were occupied by the public health midwives (PHMs) for whom they were intended and that
local residence by PHMs significantly expanded the scope of their activities, especially household
visits and provision of MCH services. Increases in early registration of pregnant women, post-natal
visits, use of modern contraceptive methods, and decreases in deliveries by untrained personnel were
all noted. However, the subdivisional centers appeared to be underutilized. In-service training
programs were carried out, including management training for DDHSs and team training of staff
responsible for preventive and curative services (Table 6), although in two of the three districts the
team training was done only in the final year of the project. The only part of the DDHS package that
was not implemented was the development of information systems to support local-level planning.



- 8 -
26.    Logistics. The logistics component was intended to support improvements in two areas:
drugs and supplies management, and vehicle and equipment maintenance and repair. Implementation
of the component was unsatisfactory. The mid-term review recommended cancellation of the
component; however, Government took measures to ensure that the remaining civil works were
completed (Table 6).
27.    Civil works for the storage and accommodation of drugs were largely completed within two
years of the start of the project, and vehicles were procured. However, completed buildings could
not be made operational for periods ranging from six months to two years because of delays in the
procurement of equipment and supplies. While the additional storage space for drugs and supplies
undoubtedly eased previous storage problems, the drugs stores are reported to have been poorly
designed and in need of modifications. Garages and service bays for repair of vehicles were also
constructed. The garages are now the responsibility of the provincial governments; two of them are
functional, but the provincial councils must allocate resources for staff before the other seven become
operational. Since it appears to be difficult for the provincial governments to operate these facilities,
the provincial health departments should consider leasing them to the private sector and obtaining
needed repair services on a contract basis.
28.    The project contributed to the completion of a study of regional morbidity patterns to obtain
better data on drug needs for primary health care, and lists of essential drugs were prepared and
published. With this exception, however, the technical and management aspects of the component
were almost entirely neglected. The underlying objective of the component was the development of a
unified logistics system, and tO this end provision for technical assistance, staff, and equipment for a
computerized system was made. This assistance went virtually unutilized. Only a preliminary
investigation was undertaken, and planned technical assistance in specialized areas (equipment
maintenance, pharmaceutical logistics and clinical pharmacology), as well as associated baseline
studies, were not carried out.
29.    Family Planning. At the time of the mid-term review, the family planning component was the
one component of the project that had made good progress. As planned, population strategy was
developed in a series of workshops, and a Demographic & Health Survey comparable to an earlier
survey in 1987 was conducted (Appendix D. 1). Service delivery was strengthened through renovation
of family planning clinics and improvement of sterilization facilities; in addition, traditional
(ayurvedic) practitioners were trained. Information. Education and Communication (IEC) strategies
were developed as part of the population strategy workshops. Communication capacities were
strengthened through republication of existing effective family planning materials, development of
new materials, and training of government and NGO staff in communication methods. Mass media
efforts for family planning were also carried out. A program to train family planning volunteers in
the Mahaveli area was canceled when a survey indicated that family planning knowledge and practice
in the area was satisfactory and replaced by programs to improve the family planning counseling
skills of staff nurses and to train auxiliary health workers for two high-fertility districts. Funds were
made available to the Family Planning Association of Sri Lanka and the Sri Lanka Association for
Voluntary Surgical Contraception for the training of health auxiliaries and nursing officers of base
hospitals in family planning counseling. The effective implementation of the project-assisted package
of support for the family planning program, including infrastructure, training, and IEC, can be
considered one of the factors responsible for the continued decline of fertility in Sri Lanka.



- 9 -
30.   Special Programs. Provision was made for special programs to address major causes of
morbidity in three project districts. The programs were to be identified on the basis of
epidemiological analysis carried out in the first year of the project. However, this was not done, and
malaria, gastro-intestinal infections, and malnutrition were selected as the problems to be addressed
on the basis of existing information.
31.   The first special program developed was a pilot nutrition program incorporating on-site
supplemental feeding for pregnant and lactating women and malnourished children ages 6-35 months.
The program had difficulties from the outset. The area selected for the pilot lacked a medical officer
and a public health nurse in post, and 6 or 11 public health midwife posts were vacant. A planned
baseline survey was not carried out. Since the Family Health Bureau did not have an appropriate
officer, responsibility for the program was contracted to the Agrarian Research and Training Institute
(ARTI). About 120 volunteers were trained and some 60 feeding centers were opened. However,
the intended approach, a community-based program incorporating growth promotion, supplementary
feeding and communication to effect behavioral change, was not fully understood or implemented.
Local health staff were not involved in planning the program and relations between them and ARTI
program staff were not good. A core technical group to support skills training, supervisory and
monitoring systems and beneficiary assessment never developed. The mid-term review mission
therefore recommended that the program be canceled.
32.    Assistance for malaria control was used to support the introduction of the revised WHO
malaria control strategy adopted in 1993 to improve the technical capacity and effectiveness of the
Anti-Malaria Campaign of the Health Ministry after resurgences of malaria in 1987 and again in
1991. The revised strategy emphasized early diagnosis and prompt treatment, using mobile clinics in
high-prevalence areas, and sustainable control measures including selective (rather than blanket)
spraying for vector control, introduction of additional insecticides in order to prevent development of
resistance through rotation, and use of insecticide-impregnated bed nets. Support for the revised
strategy was begun in two high-prevalence districts in 1993 and extended to two additional high-
prevalence districts in 1994. Effective implementation resulted in substantial improvements in case
detection and treatment through mobile clinics, good acceptance and use of impregnated bed nets, and
a major reduction in the amount of insecticide used for house spraying. The introduction of the
revised strategy is credited with a significant role in recent declines in the prevalence of malaria.
33.    On the basis of a study which indicated substantial lack of information and/or misinformation
about the causes and prevention of yastro-intestinal infections, a educational program was undertaken
that included public health inspectors, medical officers, school teachers and children, and food
handlers (Table 6). IEC equipment was provided to health facilities. Survey evidence indicated that
the program was able to improve knowledge and practice related to prevention of these diseases,
although an epidemiological assessment was not possible because of lack of a baseline. However, the
program seems to have been planned without any links to basic sanitation and water supply efforts,
which probably limited its potential effectiveness.
Project Sustainability
34.   In the context of the public health services in Sri Lanka, which have achieved impressive
results and have been considered a priority by successive governments, project investments can be
judged as likely to be sustainable. One indication of government commitment is that incremental



- 10 -
recurrent costs, with the exception of those for the special programs, were borne by Government
throughout the project. Of the special programs, only the malaria program involved modest post-
project incremental costs, which will be further reduced by the end of the follow-on project, when
they can be expected to be absorbed by the program. By the end of the project, the Management
Development and Planning Unit, the only major project investment in institutional development, was
functioning and appeared to be well on the way to institutionalization; its further development will be
supported by the follow-on project. Implementation of the Human Resources Information System was
incomplete, but since it will also be supported by the follow-on project its ultimate sustainability will
not be tested for some time (para. 47).
35.   The unanticipated provincialization of the health services, which among other consequences
gave the provincial governments responsibility for staffing and maintenance of most of the facilities
constructed with project assistance, has given rise to questions about the sustainability of the
decentralized health services generally. The provincial governments are known to operate under
serious resource constraints, and in particular maintenance of small facilities in scattered areas is
likely to be a problem. Nevertheless, since provincialization the health system has continued to
provide the good quality health services for which Sri Lanka is well known and, given the importance
of these services in the country, can be expected to continue to do so. The provincial governments
are now responsible for staffing the vehicle repair and maintenance facilities that have been
constructed with project support but have not yet done so in seven of nine cases. Since it appears to
be difficult for the provincial governments to operate these facilities, the provincial health departments
need to consider alternatives for obtaining vehicle repair services (para. 27).
IDA Performance
36.    IDA played an active role in proiect development and preparation, including provision of a
project preparation facility which supported national consultancies and subsequent workshops for
development of project components. What emerged was a complex and ambitious project, the
management aspects of which went largely unimplemented. It is difficult to justify the complex
project recommended by the appraisal mission, which was technically strong but took inadequate
account of the known risk of relying on the Ministry of Health to implement management reforms--
lack of commitment to management reform is one of the project risks mentioned in the SAR. In
retrospect, IDA's conscientious effort to involve a broad group of stake holders in project
development did not suffice to guarantee effective ownership. In the event, it was the views of a
small group of key managers in the Ministry of Health whose views and priorities proved to be
crucial. It would have been more realistic had the project design reduced the implementation risk by
limiting the number of reform activities rather than attempting to accomplish such a complex reform
package in a single project.
37.   IDA's failure to take adequate account of the views of the Ministry of Health was the major
cause of the unsuccessful effort to implement a pilot nutrition program. IDA carried out Nutrition
sector work and made the development of a special nutrition program a priority early in the project.
However, since the Ministry clearly did not welcome the effort and did not support it in the field, its
subsequent failure was predictable.
38.   In some respects, IDA supervision of the project was effective. Particularly in the first half
of the project, supervision was technically strong, and three members of the project preparation team



- 11 -
also participated in the mid-term review mission, thereby providing substantial continuity. The mid-
term review mission utilized the recommendations of the review to reach agreement with Government
on a revision of the project that identified what could realistically be accomplished in the remainder of
the project, thus providing the basis for successful completion of the project.
39.    However, early supervision of the project did not deal effectively with emerging difficulties;
while management letters reflected IDA's concerns, no concrete steps were taken. When it became
apparent in the early stages that project management was unsatisfactory and that implementation of
management reforms was unlikely, it would have been appropriate for IDA to have made a special
assessment of the situation and discussed the options, including restructuring of the project and
cancellation of some or all of the project, with Government. In view of IDA's failure to address
implementation issues in the first half of the project, the supervision record must be judged less than
satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
40.   The Ministry of Finance and both of the then Health Ministries played major roles in project
development and preparation, and the standard of Borrower technical preparation was excellent.
However, the priorities of the ministries involved proved to be quite different. The Ministry of
Finance supported the inclusion of major management reforms and a health policy study in the
project. After the project became effective, it became apparent that the Ministry of Health was not
actually prepared to support implementation of management innovations and reforms and that there
was little interest, in some cases hostility, among senior managers in the Ministry. As a result, the
management aspects of the project suffered from a lack of "ownership" on the part of the Ministry
responsible for their implementation.
41.   In the first half of the project, serious project management and implementation difficulties
were experienced. At the beginning of the project, a full-time project coordinator was appointed and
a project coordination office was set up. All senior managers in the Health Ministry and other
ministries who were involved with project implementation were appointed members of a Steering
Committee, which was chaired by the Secretary of Health and convened by the project coordinator.
Since the Steering Committee was unable to devote detailed attention to project matters, the results
were not satisfactory. Some senior managers had neither any commitment to the project nor any
understanding of its objectives and did not contribute to its progress. Relations between the project
coordinator and many MOH officers were poor, so that the coordinator was unable to fill the gap.
Additionally, there were major delays in procurement of equipment, furniture, supplies and utilities,
resulting in corresponding delays in making facilities functional after completion of construction.
42.   The Ministry of Health organized a thorough mid-term review of the project carried out by a
well-qualified consultant team. The report of the review team was extremely critical of the
performance of the Ministry of Health; the Ministry and IDA jointly revised the project and the
Ministry took steps to ensure improvements in project management, which became evident rapidly.
Subsequent to the mid-term review, implementation of the revised project was excellent. The
Ministry made a systematic and very useful final review of the project after the credit closed
(Appendix B). Thus, the project's implementation record was inconsistent, comprising both effective
implementation of service delivery components and almost total failure to implement most



- 12 -
management reforms, while project management went from deficient in the first half to quite
competent in the second half of the project.
43.    Submission of disbursement applications was satisfactory. However, for the anticipated
follow-on project, the project unit needs to upgrade its accounting and record-keeping procedures.
Procurement activities suffered from lack of adequate understanding by project staff concerning IDA
procurement requirements and procedures. The Borrower was not in compliance with covenants
relating to staffing until almost the end of the project period, but when the Credit closed only two
covenants relating to health financing and policy remained unmet, due to delayed completion of the
Health Strategy and Financing Study. These areas are expected to be covered in the follow-on project
(para. 47).
Assessment of Outcome
44.   This project is difficult to categorize as clearly "satisfactory" or "unsatisfactory" because its
results were so mixed. Important aspects of project appraisal, implementation and supervision were
clearly unsatisfactory. The IDA appraisal mission did not take adequate account of known risks and
recommended an overly complex management-oriented project; subsequently, IDA did not take action
when the project quickly proved impossible to implement in its original form. For their part, the
Borrower's policy and implementing ministries involved did not coordinate their approaches, with the
result that the implementing ministry did not take "ownership" of major aspects of the project.
Additionally, project management in the first half of the project was deficient.
45.   It should be noted that despite the many handicaps, the project accomplished significant
service delivery, institutional development, and research goals. However, given serious problems in
all aspects of the project and failure to achieve many of the project's objectives, on balance the
project is rated "unsatisfactory.
Future Operation
46.    An IDA mission in October 1995 discussed with Government project sustainability concerns
and continuation of project-supported activities (Appendix A). Project-supported primary health care
and family planning service delivery and IEC activities were implemented as part of ongoing
programs and will continue to be supported. Management training of DDHSs will be continued.
Government gave assurances that needed modifications to the drug storage facilities supported by the
project would be made (para. 27). Government is aware of operational and maintenance issues
arising from provincialization of the health services; however, at the time of writing Government is
considering additional decentralization measures and provision for support of operational and
maintenance responsibilities is not yet clear.
47.   The proposed follow-on Health Services Project, which is expected to become effective in the
second half of 1996, would continue support to the Anti-Malaria Campaign, the MDPU, and the
HRIS and, drawing on the results of the Health Strategy and Financing Study, would begin to address
major health policy issues. The revised malaria strategy would be extended to additional high-
prevalence districts, and the Anti-Malaria Campaign would undertake important surveillance and
research activities as well. The MDPU would obtain support for two project objectives that were not
achieved: access to health policy and financing expertise, and development of management



- 13 -
information systems. The HRIS would obtain continued support for data collection and entry and
would have additional time in which to become institutionalized.
Key Lessons Learned
48.    The following lessons concerning project design, management and implementation can be
drawn from the project.
a.     In project development, failure by IDA to understand fully and take adequate account
of the priorities of the implementing Ministry led to lack of "ownership" of the
project on the part of that Ministry, which seriously compromised implementation
(para. 36);
b.     In project development, failure by IDA to ensure that senior managers understood and
supported project strategies for assistance to specific programs resulted in consequent
failure to utilize assistance for those programs (para. 36);
c.     Project ownership and implementation difficulties were further exacerbated by the
complexity of the project (para. 36);
d.     Lack of effective project management in the early stages of the project was a key
factor in implementation difficulties (para. 41);
e.     Better familiarization of project staff with IDA procurement guidelines and procedures
would have helped to avoid delays in the procurement of equipment, furniture and
supplies (paras. 41; 43);
f.     The frank mid-term assessment of project status carried out by the implementing
ministry played a key role in the mid-term revision of the project that led to greatly
improved implementation in the latter part of the project (para. 42).
49.    These points were carefully taken into account in the design and development of the follow-on
Health Services Project as well as orientation of project staff.



- 14 -
Part II: Statistical Annexes



- 15 -
IMPLEMIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT (CREDIT 1903-CE)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial        Partial            Nliot avolicable
Macro policies                        D                D                 D
Sector policies                       D                D                                   D
Financial objectives                  D                D                 D
Institutional development             D                                  D                 D
Physical objectives                                    D                 D                 D
Poverty reduction                     D
Gender issues                         D                D                 D
Other social objectives               D                                 D                  D
Environmental objectives              D                D                 D
Public sector rnanagement             D                                 D                  D
Private sector development            D                D                D
Other (specify)                      I                 a                 o                 n
(Continued)



- 16 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
B. Proiect sustainability               Likelv                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
(T/                        (')                         (/)
HijzIy
C. Bank performance                   satisfactory               Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                                                   DI0
Preparation assistance                D                                                     D
Appraisal                             D                         D
Supervision                           D                          0                          W
HiszhIv
D. Borrower verformance               satisfactorE               Satisfactorv                Deficient
()                        (*                          ()
Preparation                           D                         D
Implementation                        D                         D
Covenant compliance                   D                         W                           D
Operation (if applicable)             D                         D                           D
Hi2bJv                                                Hi ghl v
E.  Assessment of outcome            satisfactory     Satisfactorv     Unsatisfactorv     unsatisfactorv
(T(/)            (1 *)
O    O.                                              D 



- 17 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans or Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose                       Approval   Status
Poverty Alleviation Project    To reorient and expand the    04/1991    Credit under
existing institutional capacity          implementation
to serve the poor, and to create
additional capacity; to develop
credit and other services: to
expand productive wage
employment for the poor; to
development programs for
nutritional interventions for
malnourished children and
pregnant mothers; to create
policy research and program
formulation capacity to take
greater account of issues of
poverty and employment in
overall growth policies and
public investment projects.



- 1i -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step in project cycle               Date planned       Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification                                  August 1986          August 1986
Preparation                                   Feb. - March 1987    Feb. - March 1987
Appraisal                                      September 1987       September 1987
Negotiations                                     March 1988           March 1988
Board Presentation                              May 5, 1988          May 31, 1988
Signing                                         July 8, 1988          July, 1988
Effectiveness                                  September 1988        April 4, 1989
Midterm review                                  January 1991         January 1993
Project completion                              June 30, 1994        Sept. 30, 1995
Credit closing                                 Sept. 30, 1994        Sept. 30, 1995



- 19 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Appraisal Estimate          2.00    7.10    11.90    14.40    16.30    17.30    17.50    -
Actual                      0.20    0.83     1.00    2.23     5.66     7.56    10.56    11.49
Actual as % of Estimate     10%      12%      8%      15%      35%     44%      60%     66%
Date of final disburement                                                             2/16/96
NB: US$4.7 million equivalent was canceled in August 1994.
The Credit Closing Date was extended by one year, from September 30, 1994 to September
30, 1995.



- 20 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Expected Outcome                                Achievement
HEALTH MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
COMPONENT
Rationalization of DDG (Admin.) unit in MCH     Not accomplished
Rationalization of financial management and     Not accomplished
budget control in MOH
Creation of health planning and management      Accomplished through establishment of
capacity in MOH                                 MDPU
Adoption of policies to improve efficiency and  Not accomplished
equity of health system
Rationalization of health facilities and staffing  Accomplished outside project through
provincialization of health services
Expansion and improvement of PHC services in    Accomplished
selected districts
Reduction of facility by-passing                Not accomplished
LOGISTICS COMPONENT
Establishment of unified system for management    Not accomplished
of drugs & supplies and vehicle & equipment
maintenance
FAMILY PLANNING COMPONENT
Development and implementation of annual        Accomplished
strategies
Improvements in coverage and quality of service    Accomplished
delivery
Improvements in coverage and quality of IEC;    Accomplished
inclusion of additional media; strengthening of
staff interpersonal communication skills
Increase in contraceptive prevalence, especially  Accomplished
use of reversible contraceptive methods



- 21 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
A: Civil Works
Facilities                 Target          Achievement
Service Delivery
* DHCs                                 3                 3
* SDHCs                                8                 8
* GHCs                                105               105
* DDHS offices                        20                20
. DDHS quarters                       19                 17
Logistics
. Construction of Divisional           9                 9
Drug Stores
. Renovation of Divisional Drug        9                 9
Stores
* Rehabilitation of Main Drug          I                 I
Store in Colombo
* Construction of new Drug             5                 5
Stores in Teaching Hospital
* Construction of Model                3                 3
Pharmacies with Facilities for
Repackaging
* Construction of Garages and          9                 9
Service Bays
e Construction of Generator            9                 '9
Rooms
 Upgrading of ME Facilities           2                 2
Family Planning
* Upgrading Clinics                  250*               225
* Reduced from 750 in 1990.
DHC:          Divisional Health Center
SDHC:         Subdivisional Health Center
GHC:          Gramodaya Health Center
DDHS:         Divisional Director of Health Services
ETU:          Emergency Treatment Unit
ME:           Maintenance and Engineering Facilities



- 22 -
B: In-Service Training
Project Component                          Trainees                 Number of    Year
Program Content                                                  Courses
Management Development
& Planning Unit
*  Management Training      Nursing Officers                            4        1992-1993
*  Management Training      Public Health Nursing Sisters               3          1993
*  Management Training      Personnel of Dept. of Health                1          1992
*  Management Training      Division Director of Health Services        4          1993
*  Training for Health      Clerks                                      3        1992-1993
Clerical Service
*  Management Training      DMOs and M.Os of PUs                        2        1992-1993
Program
*  Health Administration    Divisional Directors of Health Services     11       1993-1994
and Management
*  MSc in Medical           Medical Officers                            3          1994
Administration
e  Orientation Program      Planning Div. New Recruits                  1          1994
-  Health Management        Trainees in Health Management               I
Training
-  Medical Rewards          Graduate Trainees MOH                       1          1995
Procedures
-  Office Procedures        Supervisory and Clerical Staff              1          1995
*  Basic Computer           MDPU Staff Officers                         1          1995
Techniques
Galle District
-  Curricular Development   Provincial Health Officers                  2          1994
Program
*  Management Training      PHC Staff Udugama                           3          1994
Staff Mahamodera Hospital                  14         1994
Clerical Staff Teaching Hospital           2          1994
Hospital Midwives                          3          1994
Staff Teaching Hospital                    17         1994
Matale District
*  Team Training            Field Staff                                 10         1994
*  Management Training      Nurses and Paramedical Staff                5          1994
Clerical Staff                             1          1994
Minor Employees                            14         1994
Drivers                                    2          1994



- 23 -
Project Component                          Trainees                 Number of    Year
Program Content                                                  Courses
Polonaruwa District
*  Management Training      Nurses and Paramedical Staff                5          1995
Clerical Staff                             2          1995
Minor Employees                            16         1995
*  Management Training      Field Staff                                 9          1995
*  Interpersonal            PHNs                                       (2)*        1995
Communication Training   SPHMs                                     (4)*         1995
PHIs                                     (31)*        1995
PHs                                      (113)*       1995
SDTs                                      (8)*        1995
Nursing Officers (Institute)              (65)*       1995
Clerical Staff (B.H.)                    (127)*       1995
Para medical Staff                       (23)*        1995
Minor Staff                              (538)*       1995
Drivers                                  (31)*        1995
Family Planning
*  HEll                     Health Staff (Workshop)                     3        1991-1993
Training of Traditional Practitioners      15       1991-1995
27
*  Facility and Equipment    Maintenance Workers                       225       1991-1995
Maintenance
*  Inter Personal           Inspectors                                 123       1991-1995
Communication
*  Clinic Counseling        Staff Nurses                              (249)*     1991-1995
Program
Auxiliary Health Workers                  138       1991-1995
242
Public Health Inspectors                   2        1991-1994
Special Programs
*  Gastro Intestinal Diseases  Food Handlers                           115       1993-1994
School Programs                           115
Training of FDI at Ministry Level          I
Training Program for PHI                   4
Training Program for MOH                   3
Education Programs in Schools             120
*  Nutrition                Volunteers                                  4        1990-1991



- 24 -
External Training                                                 Number of Participants
*  Personnel Information Sustems; University of Sussex                      3
*  Curiculum Development for Nurses, University of Conneticut               2
*  Management Methods in Health; Boston University                          3
*  Financial Management in Health; Boston University                        I
*  Setting Tomorrow's Agenda; Seminar on Developing Issues in               2
Public Health; Boston University
* Number of Trainees
DDHS:         Divisional Director of Health Services
DMO:          District Medical Officers
FDI:          Food Inspectors
HEB:          Health Education Bureau
ITP:          Inservice Training Program
MO:           Medical Officer
MOH:          Medical Officer of Health
PD:           Provincial Director
PHI:         Public Health Inspector
PU:           Peripheral Unit



- 25 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
The following studies were carried out with project support.
Human Resource Development
Title:       Review of cadre levels
Status:      Completed
Impact:      Action by DDG (Admin) pending
Title:       Rationalization of recruitment procedures
Status:      Completed
Impact:      Action by DDG (Admin) pending
Management Development & Planning Unit (MDPU)
Title:       Health Strategy and Financing Study
Status:      Completed by consultant in 1995 after substantial delays
Impact:      Delay in completion prevented action on recommendations during project;
recommendations provided basis for policy and financing component of follow-on
project; planned MOH workshop to disseminate and discuss recommendations not held
Title:       Guidelines for preparation of capital investment plans to hospital services
Status:      Completed as part of technical assistance consultancy
Impact:      Being utilized by Lady Ridgeway Hospital; utilization by other tertiary hospitals
expected
Title:       Organization and Function of the MDPU
Status:      Completed as part of technical assistance consultancy
Impact:      Action by DDG (Planning) pending
Service Delivery
Title:       PHC Baseline Morbidity Surveys
Status:      Carried out in three DDHS areas in 1993.
Impact:      Delay in implementation prevented use for assessment of project impact
Logistics
Title:       Study of regional morbidity patterns
Status:      Study carried out to provide basis for estimating PHC drug requirements
Impact:      Provided input for revision of essential drug lists
Family Planning
Title:       Family planning KAP study among settlers of the Mahaveli System G area
Status:      Carried out in 1990-91 by a private sector organization
Impact:      Indicated that levels of family planning knowledge and practice were high enough so



- 26 -
that special assistance to the area was not needed.
Title:        Demographic and Health Survey
Status:       Carried out in 1993 by the Dept. of the Census
Impact:       Comparisons with comparable data from previous surveys enabled assessment of
changes in key demographic and health indicators
Title:        Study of pricing structure of contraceptive and family planning services
Status:       Carried out in 1992 by a private sector organization
Impact:       Results taken under advisement by MOH
Special Programs
Title:        KAP study concerning major causes of morbidity (malaria, gastro-intestinal infections,
malnutrition) in three project districts
Status:       Carried out in 1990 by Health Education Bureau
Impact:       Provided inputs to design of special programs to address these concerns
Title:        KAP study concerning gastro-intestinal infections
Status:       Carried out in 1995 by Health Education Bureau
Impact:       Indicated KAP improvements in this area



- 27 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Project Costs by Expenditure Category
(Rs million)
Category                   Appraisal Estimate       Actual
Civil Works                                                166.51            291.3
Vehicles, Furniture, Equipment and Supplies                 80.71            163.0
Studies and Surveys; Training; Fellowships and             123.3             127.7
Workshops; Consultant Services
Family Planning Grants to NGOs; Special     I              106.8.             12.5
Service Delivery Programs
IEC Material Production and Dissemination                   57.0
Incremental Operation Cost                                  96.6               6.2
Project Management*                                          3.0               4.0
Project Preparation Facility                                 7.8
Total                                                      641.7,            604.7
Project Costs by Component
(Rs million)
Component                     Appraisal estimate         Actual
Management _
Management Improvement                                   87.6           96.4
Service Delivery                                         94.4          209.2
Logistics                                                    146.2 1         232.1
Family Planning                                              128.7            52.9
Special Programs                                              33.0            10.2
Project Management*                                             3.0            4.0
Physical Contingencies                                       49.30
Price Contingencies                                           99.4
Total                                                        641.7           604.7
* Comprises Rs 1.45 million for equipment etc. and Rs 2.55 million for salaries and other
operating expenditures.
Note: In local currency terms, actual project expenditures were 94% of appraisal estimates. US$
equivalent for actual costs are not available.
Table SB: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate        Actual
Local Costs (Rs million)                                  469.51                206.5
Foreign Costs (US$ million)                                 5.7                   3.5
From IDA Credit (Rs million)                               525.01               555.1
From GOSL Funds (Rs million)                               116.7                 49.6
Total                                     1                641.7j               604.7



- 28 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Table 10: Status of Leal Covemsants
Origiinal    Revised
Covenant                  Fulfill       Fulfill
Text Reference                Class(es)      Status      Date         Date          Description of Covenant                                                Comments
Schedule 4. para La               5            CD                                   Borrower to appoint health deputy directors general (DDGs) and
directors with qualifications and experience satisfactory to tDA.
Schedule 4. para 2.a              5            C                                    Borrower to appoint and maintain project coordinator with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
Scliedule 4, p.ra 2 h             5            C                                    Borrower to amaintai  Project Steering Committee uinder TORs and
with membership satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule 4. para 3.a             13            CD       08.31/92      12/31/94      Borrower to complete and furnish IDA with health strategy and          Final report submitted early 1995.
finiancing study carried out under TORs and by persona whose
qualifications andaxperienice, ase satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule 4. para 3.b              2            NC        12/31/92                   Borrower to implement mutually satisfactory health financing           To be taken up by follow-on project.
mesures.
Schedule 4. para 4               10           CD        08131/89                    Borrower to provide TORs satisfactory to IDA for special service       Programs for malaria and diarrhoeal diseases
delivery programs,                                                     control implemented: malnutrition program
carxelled.
Schedule 4, paras 5. 6            5            NC                                   Borrower to provide IDA with work plans for health policy research     To be taken up by follow-on project.
and iraining for nest calendar year.
Schedule 4. para 7                9            C        03/31195      03131/96      Borrower to complete mid-term and final project reviews under          Mid-term review completed January 1993.
TORs and by persons satisfactory to IDA; discuss with IDA: carry       Final review completed January 1996.
out mutually satisfactory action plan. Fulfillment 03/31/91:
03/31/92.
Schedule 4. para 8                0              C                                  Borrower to provide family planning grants to NGOs under
I  I        I             I            I ~~~~~~~~~~arrangemrents satisfactory to IDA.
Status:    C           - Comphed with
CD         - Compliance afier Delay
NC         - Not Complied with
SOON       - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP         - Complied with Partially
NYD        - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
I. Accounts/audit
2 Financial performancegenerate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utiiiiation of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resetlement
8. Indigenous people
9 Monitoring. review and reporting
10. Implemextation
11 Sectoral or cross-secioral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other



- 29 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Number of Staff Weeks
Stage of Project Cycle    Iota  FY 81-84 FY 85F8 FY 87FY 88 FY 89 FY 90FY 91 FY 92FY 93 FY 94F:Y 95FY 96
Through appraisal         125.9      17.5  4.1  45.6  44.0  14.7
Appraisal to Board         39.4                             39.4
Board to Effectiveness      3.6                              3.6
Supervision               102.7                                    6.0  8.6  12.8  21.3  26.9  20.2  6.3  0.6
Completion                  2.0                                                                             2.0
TOTALS                    273.6      17.5  4.1  45.6  44.0  57.7  6.0  8.6  12.8  21.3  26.9  20.2  6.3  2.6



- 30 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Month/Yea   Number of    Days         Specialized Staff Skills    Implementation    Development          Types of
Persons     in Field         Represented              Status          Objectives          Problems
THROUGH APPRAISAL AND EFFECTIVENESS
Sept. 87         6           21       Ar, FP, HF, Nu
Feb 88           1            6       Nu
SUPERVISION
May 89           2            10      Nu.Mg                            3                  3          M,T
June 89          1            5       Nu                               3                  3          M, T
Augnst 89        2            4       Nu, Mg                           3                  3          M, T
January 90       2                    Nu,Mg                            2                  2
February 90      1            '       Mg                                                             M
June 90          2            12      Nu,HF                            2                  2          M
June 91          3            1()     Nu. Mg                           2                  2          M
January 92       5            12      Nu, PH, Mg.                      3                  3          M,
June92           4                    Nu, Ar, Mg, PH                   2                  2          M
January 93       5            16      Po, PH, Nu, HE, Mg               3                  3          M
August 93        3            10      Mg, Nu,                          2                  2
January 94       4            16      PH. Po, Mg,                      2                  2
Sept94           4            11      Po, PH, Mg, HE                   S                  S
Perfomance rating
1:           problem-free or minor problems
2:           moderate problems
3:           major problems
US:          unsatisfactory
S:           satisfactory
Specialized staff skills
Ar:          architect
Dm:          demogropher
HF:          health finance specialist
IEC:         information, education and communication specialist
Mg:          management specialist
Nu:          nutrition specialist
PH:          public health specialist
SA:          system  analyst
Tr:          training specialist
Types of problems
F:           financial
M            management
T:           technical



The World Bank                                          1818 H Street, N.W.  (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433   Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                   U.S.A              Cable Address: INDEVAS
- 31 -                              Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
April 17, 1996
Dr. Dudley Dissenayake
Secretary
Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Dear Dr. Dissenayake:
SRI LANKA: Health & Family Planning Project (Cr 1903-CE)
We are now in the process of preparing our post-project assessment of the IDA-assisted
Health & Family Planning Project that closed last September. In reviewing the project, I am
particularly impressed with the ability of your Ministry, following a critical mid-term review, to
improve project management and implement the second half of the project in an excellent
fashion.
I would also like to congratulate your Ministry for the very thorough and useful
completion reports on the project. On the basis of your reviews and discussions that were held at
the time of the last World Bank mission, I mention below a number of matters to ensure that the
achievements of the project will be sustained now that the project has ended.
First, the review indicates that some facilities constructed early in the project already
require maintenance, and requirements will of course increase substantially over the coming
years. While we realize that the provincial governments now have the responsibility for
maintenance of local health facilities, it is important that your Ministry take the lead in drawing
the attention of the provincial governments to maintenance needs and urging them to make
adequate provision; otherwise, the substantial project investment in support of primary health
care will be endangered.
Second, I understand that seven of the nine garages constructed for vehicle repairs are not
functioning because of lack of staff. Again, we realize that employment of staff for them has
become a provincial responsibility. However, the urgent attention of the provincial Health
Ministers and Health Secretaries needs to be drawn to this matter, so that the facilities do not
continue to stand idle and unproductive.
Third, the review of the project's Logistics component notes a number of defects in the
design of the drug stores constructed with project support which prevent them from functioning
adequately. Difficulties involving loading platforms, ventilation, electrical systems, fencing, and
security are mentioned. Since these facilities remain the responsibility of your Ministry, we hope
that you will resolve these problems as soon as possible so that the facilities can be made fully
functional.
ITT 440098 RCA 248423 WUI 64145



- 32 -                           Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
Fourth, I am surprised to learn that a planned workshop to present and discuss the
recommendations of the Health Strategy and Financing Study was not held. Given the valuable
data collected and analyzed by the study as well as the study's important recommendations in the
areas of health policy and planning, I would urge you to reschedule the workshop in order to
facilitate dissemination of the study and promote discussion of the recommendations among the
staff of your own ministry, other departments of Government, and other organizations and
individuals concerned with health services and policy.
Finally, we believe that it is important for Sri Lanka's health system that the Human
Resources Information System (HRIS) and the Management Development and Planning Unit
(MDPU) developed with project assistance continue to function, and we are pleased to note that
both will receive additional support from the proposed Health Services Project. The failure to fill
the position of a director for HRIS that was established before the project ended was a
disappointment, and we would certainly be glad to learn that an appointment has now been made.
Based on experience elsewhere, we also believe that HRIS will not be able to function as
intended unless keeping HRIS data current is linked to promotions and transfers of health staff.
Since other aspects of human resources management in your Ministry continue to present
problems, the recommendation of the most recent World Bank mission that HRIS be transferred
to MDPU should be given careful consideration.
I am encouraged to learn that the post of Director Management Information has been
filled, so that for the first time since the beginning of the project in 1989 all four MDPU
directors are now in place. The establishment of MDPU and its ability to carry out important
management training and planning functions are among the project's most important
accomplishments. With additional support from the proposed Health Services Project, it should
be possible to strengthen and expand the ability of the MDPU to provide health policy
development, planning and management support to your Ministry. We support the
recommendation of the review that a program should be undertaken to explain the role and
functions of MDPU to the other units and staff of your Ministry.
May I again offer my congratulations on the successful completion of the Health &
Family Planning project.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Barbara Herz
Chief
Population & Human Resources Division
South Asia Country Department I
cc: Dr. R.C. Rajapakse
World Bank Project Coordinator
Ministry of Health



- 33 -
Apxpendix B
Page 1 of 4
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Borrower's Summary and Evaluation
A. Summary
1.         A majority of the activities under the Family Planning Component had been completed at
the time of the Mid-Term Review carried out in January 1993.
2.         Most of the IEC activities including mass media program have been conducted as
scheduled.
3.         Training of auxiliary health workers to work in the areas with high level of fertility and
training of staff nurses in Family Planning counselling were carried out to help improve inter
personnel communication. Assessment of the impact of these inputs are not possible even though
there is a possibility that these inputs may have made a contribution to decrease in fertility and an
improvement in knowledge and practices related to contraception as shown in the Demographic and
Health Survey.
4.         At the Mid-Term Review there was a satisfactory level of completion of Civil Works
and much progress have been made since then in the provision of Furniture, Equipment and Staff.
5.         In the case of In-Service Management Training of the field staff, though the training
commenced in the Galle District in early 1994, training in the other two districts were completed only
in 1995. Thus it is not possible to make in assessment of the inputs of these activities. There were
some indication of improve use of MCH services in the periphery.
6.         Improvement in Project Management were seen following the Mid-Term Review with
acceleration in the implementation of Project activities through improved liaison with provincial
authorities and regular monitoring. Financial progress seen over the duration of the Project are in
keeping with these observations.
7.         The Human Resources Division of the Ministry of Health, though expected to function
as a focal point for staff development works more as an establishment unit. The DDG (HRD) and the
Directors under him were totally unaware of their duties as enunciated in the Project. The personnel
work is distributed between the DDG (Administration) and DDG (Examination and Investigation).
Lack of continuity of staff positions has not contributed to the Planning of the Unit. The present
DDG is the fourth person to occupy this position during the duration of the Project.
8.         The studies that have been completed by the Human Resources Development Unit are
areas that would directly contribute to a better handling of the establishment work.



- 34 -
Apnendix B
Page 2 of 4
9.         There is acceptance by the Ministry regarding the need for an automated Human
Resource Information System since this would offer a better frame work for manpower planning and
decision making. Though work on collecting information started late, progress has been steady
though data collection is slow in the Line Ministry institution compared to the provinces.
10.        The Boston University consultancy would have made a greater contribution towards an
improvement of the services provided by the Ministry of Health if the Ministry was ready to accept
the guidance and training provided by the consultants. The Management Development and Planning
Unit is now institutionalized and is providing the service expected of it. However, due to lack of
staff and commitment by the Ministry the work done by Mr. Peter Ship has not been utilized and
there does not appear to be any plans to continue his work.
11.        The HRIS component too should have made a greater contribution had the Ministry
realized its importance and appointed staff to help the Director (HRIS).
12.        Special Programs: These consisted of Malaria Control Program in the districts of
Matale, Polonnaruwa, Anuradhapura and Kurunegala, an integrated Nutrition Project and control of
Gastro Intestinal Disease in the Matale and Polonnaruwa districts.
13.        The Nutrition Project was wound up in 1993 as it failed in its objective to institute a
successful model of a nutrition intervention package for replication in other areas.
14.        Malaria transmission has declined in the last two years which could be attributed due to
the new strategies for malaria control. Mobile clinics, heightened surveillance activities and new
spraying strategies, all supported by World Bank funds has helped in reducing the incidence of the
disease.
15.        Intensified food hygiene education were carried out in all three areas and KAP study has
indicated an improvement in the awareness of the mode of the spread of the disease.
16.        The Civil Works concerned with the storage of drugs and vehicle maintenance had
almost been completed within two years of the start of the Project. The completed buildings however
were not operational for quite some time due to delays in the procurement and supply of equipment
due to bureaucratic red tape. the equipment however has now been provided. The divisional drug
stores, poor in design, have however eased the problems of storage space for drugs in the periphery.
17.        The unified logistics system classified as a key note exercise did not go beyond the
preliminary investigation by a consultant.
18.        Of the 162 positions identified to help improve the functioning of the drug stores and to
man the garages and service bays, only 15 have been filled due to the fact that such appointments
were the prerogative of the provincial councils and the construction work was done by the Line
Ministry. This has resulted in the failure of the transport maintenance and repair facilities as
envisaged in the Project.



- 35 -
Appendix B
Page 3 of 4
19.        The drug and supplies management of the Project has not received any significant
contribution as far as the Project aim of improving this aspects of the logistics services. Recruitment
of the divisional pharmacists and their training could have helped.
20.        On the matter of the financial performance the records is poor as apart from capital
work and purchase of vehicles and equipment financial provisions for improving the management
system were not utilized.
B. Evaluation by the Director General Health Services
21.        The above project was successfully completed in September 1995 and I wish to thank the
World Bank for supporting certain areas in the health sector that needed urgent and sustained support.
22.        1 am particularly impressed with the support given to the Service Delivery Component in
the health districts of Galle, Matale and Polonnaruwa. The provision of staff quarters and offices for
DDHS and the construction of the Gramodaya Health Centers in the rural areas together with the
provision of transport to the Divisional Directors have helped reduce morbidity and generally
improved Primary Health Care in the three districts.
23.        The logistics component which included drug and supplies management, vehicle and
equipment maintenance and repair has not produced the desired improvement in these fields. The
construction of divisional and hospital drug stores has helped in the distribution of drugs but, the
vehicle maintenance has not had the desired effect due to the poor citing of the buildings and the non
appointment of required staff. Unfortunately, this is a consequence of decentralization in that the
buildings were constructed and equipped by the Central Ministry and Provincial councils were
expected to provide staff.
24.        I am happy to note the Family Health Component has been very successfully completed
and Demographic and Health Survey carried out by the Department of Census and Statistics has
shown an improvement in the knowledge and practices related to contraception and marked decrease
in fertility. The auxiliary health workers who were trained and appointed to some of the backward
areas in Puttalam and Kandy have helped the government health workers in their day-to-day duties.
25.        The Mass Media activities carried out by the Health Education Bureau were completed
as scheduled and KAP studies would have to be done to assess the impact.
26.        The Human Resources Management and Human Resources Development have, I am
afraid, not achieved its objective due to reasons beyond the control of the present Ministry. Staff
trained under this component have been transferred thus the Ministry not getting the benefits of the
training. The Human Resources Information System is a useful tool in the management process but it
has to be strengthened for maximum benefits.
27.        The Management Development and Planning Unit is now institutionalized and I am
positive will play a very important pivotal position in the health sector of this country. However, the
Boston University consultancy would have made a greater contribution if the Ministry was ready with



- 36 -
Appendix B
Page 4 of 4
the necessary infra-structure and manpower to accept the guidance and training provided by the
consultants.
28.        The Malaria Control Program has certainly benefited by the support given by the World
Bank loan as shown by the drop in Malaria transmission in the last two years.
29.         I am sure that had there been better Project Management from the beginning of the
Project and the provision of adequate manpower the benefits could have been more. However, 86%
expenditure is an indication of the efforts put in by the health staff of this country to achieve the
desired targets this, in spite of the disturbances and conflicts that the country had to undergo during
the early years of the project.
Appendix C
Co-Financier's Evaluation
[There were no co-financiers.]



- 37 -
Appendix D-1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Fertility and Family Planning: 1987, 1993
1982-87               1988-93
Total Fertility Rate                              2.82                   2.26
1987                  1993
Current Contraceptive Prevalence
Pill                                             4.1                    5.5
IUD                                              2.1                    3.0
Injection                                        2.7                    4.6
Condom                                            1.9                   3.3
Female Sterilization                             24.9                   23.5
Male Sterilization                               4.9                    3.7
Norplant                                                                0.1
Total, Modern Methods                              40.6                   43.7
Safe Period                                      14.9                   15.2
Withdrawal                                       3.4                    5.0
Abstinence                                       2.8                    2.2
Total, Traditional Methods                         21.1                   22.4
TOTAL                             61.7                   66.1
Source: Demographic and Health Survey Sri Lanka 1993. Department of Census and Statistics.



- 38 -
Appendix D-2
Page I of 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
(Credit 1903-CE)
Summary of Technical Assistance Consultancy for Management
The consultancv was carried out by the Boston University Center for International Health.
The specific tasks carried out and the results as assessed by the Consultant are summarized below.
Task 1 Preparation of Implementation Plan
Status: Completed.
Task 2 Preparation of Finance and Administration Manuals
Status: This task was linked to the decentralization of powers to the Divisional Directors of
Health Services in 1993. After an initial workshop and partial drafting of the finance manual, the
Ministry decided to retain the responsibility for the work and the Consultant undertook no further
activities. (Further work on these manuals was undertaken by national consultants and by the
Ministry itself. At the request of the Project Coordinator, an assessment of the Ministrv's drug
distribution system was undertaken by the Consultant and a report fumished in late 1992. No
further work in this area was undertaken by the Consultant.
Comments: Given the sensitive nature of such manuals and the fact that compiling them
requires close familiarity with existing procedures, the decision to have the manuals written by
experienced national consultants made sense. It is unclear why this task was included in the
consultancy in the first place.
Task 3 Human Resources Information System (HRIS)
Status: Design and specifications for HRIS were completed and a national consultant hired
to develop the software and provide staff for data entry. The data base program became operational
in 1993. At the end of the project, the data base contained only about 10,000 files, represented an
estimated 40% of staff to be included. The files for some institutions which cooperated in
establishing the data base were completed; for others there was insufficient support to obtain
complete data, particularly for minor staff. HRIS implementation was not begun in three provinces
and was variable in the six provinces where it was introduced. Update procedures were not
routinely implemented. Permanent positions for the HRIS unit had been sanctioned but not filled.
Comments: Implementation of HRIS did not have a high priority with the Ministry, as
indicated by delays in staff appointments and an unwillingness to require the managers of central
institutions to complete the submission of data or notify the HRIS unit of personnel actions as they



- 39 -
Appendix D-2
Page 2 of 3
occur. As a result HRIS did not become an integral part of Ministry operations. The potential
value of HRIS for management and manpower planning purposes will not be realized until HRIS
coverage is complete and current. Current HRIS status needs to be linked to transfers and
promotions to accomplish this.
Task 4 Health Planning Data Base
Status: Reports recommending priorities for the compilation a of health planning data base,
a source for each data item, and a recommended approach to incremental development of a health
planning data system were provided. A study tour of health planning data systems in Indonesia,
Malaysia and Singapore for MOH staff was conducted.
Comments: In the absence of a Director Management Information in the MDPU, work on
the design of a health planning information svstem was halted in 1994. An essential requirement for
further development is integration of the activities of the Medical Statistics unit and those of other
health information systems.
Task 5 Techniques of Analysis for Hospital Planning
Status: Workshop on hospital planning techniques conducted; step-down cost allocation
model (Lotus-based) for use with costing effort at Lady Ridgeway Hospital programmed;
population-based bed need analysis for Lady Ridgeway Hospital, which showed a smaller bed
requirement than assumed, completed; "Guidelines and Workbook for Preparing Capital Investment
Plans to Expand/Extend Hospital Services" written and produced. However, it is not clear whether
the Planning Workbook has been disseminated.
Comments: The Ministry needs to do a better job of anticipating the total operating cost
and affordability of its proposed capital budget. The procedures specified in the Planning
Workbook will lead to more credible cost estimates for individuals proposals. The Ministry should
aggregate the implications of these proposals, along with ministry-wide initiatives, and compare the
total to the amount of funds which are likely to be available from the budget for health services.
Task 6 Support for Health Management Training
Status: Integrated teaching case of DDHS training course prepared; health economics,
personnel supervision and leadership, hospital management and integrated case study taught in initial
DDHS courses by consultant; DDHS budgeting model (Lotus-based) for use in training course
programmed; resources available for health management education and needs for management
training assessed; report including recommendations for initial supervisory training, certificate-level
course in health management, and Masters degree in Health Management completed and submitted;
input including draft course outlines and textbooks to curriculum of M.Sc. in health administration
provided; M.Sc. classes in financial management and seminar in health economics for MOH staff
taught by consultant. Drug supply course for M.Sc. was not taught due to schedule conflicts.
Comments: The M.Sc. in Health Administration is a first step in upgrading management
skills in the health sector. However, the M.Sc. can reach only a fraction of those with management



- 40 -
Appendix D-2
Page 3 of 3
responsibilities in the Health Sector. Basic management training is required for all staff who deploy
significant resources or personnel and have budget responsibilities. We therefore recommend that
the Ministry give consideration to a certificate-level course in Health management, which would
include some of the materials in the M.Sc. Such a course could be offered to a wider range of
MOH staff when they first acquire management responsibility. Staff would remain in post while
receiving this training.
Task 7 Study on Organization and Staffing of the Management Development Planning Unit
Status: Report and associated draft job descriptions for recommended positions submitted.
Comments: It seems unlikely that this report will be utilized to any significant extent.
Tasks 819 Development of a Model to Estimate Health Manpower Requirements
Status: Workload Indicators of Staffing Need (WISN) model (Lotus-based) designed and
tumed over to MOH for use; one MDPU staff member trained in use of software; process for
creation of workload indicators by various professional groups completed and compared to existing
staffing; WISN calculations for most non-hospital cadres completed and compared to existing stafft
activity data collected, WISN calculations carried out, and comparisons to existing staffing made for
a set of provincial, base and district hospitals. However, WISN calculations not completed for
specialty services in teaching hospitals because sufficient data was not submitted. Some WISN
calculations for hospitals in the selected districts were not completed because hospitals did not
return full data requested.
Comments: The Ministry does not appear to assign any particular priority to this approach
to manpower planning. It appears unlikely that the software will be utilized by the Ministry.



- 41 --
Appendix D-3
Recommendations of the Health Strategy and Financing Study
I.     Helping People to Avoid Inappropriate Self Care
II.    Improving Quality and Efficiency
I.     Move outpatient services of major public hospitals to separate facilities.
2.     Address by-passing of lower level facilities by improving quality of care.
3.     If improving quality of care does llot solve by-passing problem, reform the
referral system by (a) instituting differential fees; and/or (b) requiring
referral for admission to higlher level facilities.
4.     Determine more effective uses for types of facilities known to be
ineffective.
5.     Address inefficiencies in the drug sector.
III.   Providing Additional Resources
6.     Institute user fees for all age groups older than one year.
7.     Reserve IO percent of beds in all hospitals as pay beds.
8.     Support development of cooperatively owned and operated health
facilities.
IV.   Building a Research Capacity
9.     Build capacity for health systems research.
NB: The study does not recommenid public sector support for health insurance on the
grounds that i'ull risk coverage for all citizens is already provided. Other insurance would
be provided appropriately by private insurance companies.
NM:\SRI\PCR-A3.DOC
FP.dr 4\8\96






IBRD 28020
80                                                        81                                                         82
SRI LANKA
-offa            HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING PROJECT
oD     SELECTED CITIES
Kv                 N.y                                     3     PROVINCE CAPITALS
',  h..~* hnos:hth O   ,                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
MullICttvo                      MAIN ROADS
_,  1   ,_  _,  f                                          *  *  *W RAILROADS
- - ... DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/                  - '    -.                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
9                                                                                                                                                    9Manar  N  9
_  _- .-    . :.,_l'l     
t     ,>/             \0    1    2    3    4    5    6
. _ /                            -2 e KILOMETERS
. .                ' .1 f      ,,j ,,, ,,; ,;, ,         ,,,              oTrincornalee
f     Anurcidrhiopuro ij                                   .'4.', 9  
ch yoqgcao 
u. . __  Tal-oasc o                      :
. -s,Eppri-oclo             '          .,  *..E. ,  r.      ;~
8          PuHalon? ,                           GaIt)                  , A                       We,kond% JSdIdhaopuro                              8
.3'.    GalEiyaAmngc;     ,       ORand,y-,l iworn
f              -               Btcrnquncl                  f, .  Ar*' 'Solhonalo   0
, 5                   4E   ~~~~~~~ Ksull~.,dy,                     
-l pl.    ;  -. .   . .                                   F  .. ')
COLOMBOi e            ;          ;v                                                                Mlaua
,.,%.~~              N., '-_ S'                ,'
I}           -.              ,.,      , 
* A         3aniplc                  r'            lyonci7                          j
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-    0,A- ag u 
Koluw-roK                                        ,                                                       p'.o0
Ths' b." "                      r-\                             P,
.nDpSyKep4I o,                                                           $,.V                             K.  o    
Tb7   -ld    G-p                                                               1 c                                                              7
xto.s of or>; re l loc:                    j                        ~~~~~~~Hombanlota
orUCepoLOB  -f  .  .1                        I
- 6   boulvdo.er             ~~Gallri       >'R                                            
80                        Malmlo                          81                                                         82
MAY I Q96









IMAGI MNG
Report No:      15763
Type: ICR



