Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1903 CE
               (Health and Family Planning Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 13, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1903 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 13,  1988, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied  itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of  the  Project  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed,  on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MOPI" means the Ministry of Plan Implementation;
     (b)  "MH" means the Ministry of Health;
     (c)  "MWATH"  means  the  Ministry  of  Women's  Affairs  and
Teaching Hospitals;
     (d)  "Project   Steering   Committee"   means   the  steering
committee  established  by   the   Secretary,   Ministry  of  Plan
Implementation by his letter dated November 23, 1987;
     (e)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (f)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  May  19,  1986 and July 21, 1986
between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to  twelve  million  nine  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,900,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be September 30, 1994
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  November  1,  1998  and  ending  May  1,  2028.   Each
installment to and  including  the  installment  payable on May 1,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  4
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project or cause
the Project to be  carried  out  with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with  appropriate  health management and admini-
strative practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
Page  5
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.O1.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely that  the  officials specified in Parts
1 (a) and  2  (a)  of  Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement, have been
appointed and taken up their respective positions.
     Section 5.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                SECMINFIN                       FINMIN 21409
                Colombo                         FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
                            SRI LANKA
                          By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
Page  6
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works                     3,820,000         95%
(2)  Goods                     1,590,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 80%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
(3)  Consultants'              1,870,000         100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Special pro-
     grams under
     Part A.2 of
     the Project
     and support
     under Part C.3
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
     (a)  Goods                1,090,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 80%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
     (b)  Incremental          1,290,000         100%
          expenditures
(5)  Expenditures
Page  7
     under Part C.4
     of the Project
     (a)  Goods                  410,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 80%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
     (b)  Media services       1,120,000         100%
(6)  Incremental                  80,000         100%
     expenditures
     for Project
     Coordination
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7)  Refunding of                200,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(8)  Unallocated               1,430,000
                              __________
         TOTAL               12,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Incremental expenditures" includes salaries and vehicle
and office operation and maintenance costs; and
     (d)  "Media services" means  production  and dissemination of
mass media materials.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 80,000 may
be made on account of  payments  made for expenditures before that
date but after September 30, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are:  (a)  to strengthen the
health management  system;  (b)  to  improve  the health logistics
system; and (c) to  continue  to enhance maternal-child health and
to lower the fertility level.
     The Project consists of  the  following parts subject to such
Page  8
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Health Management
1.   (a)  Establishment and development of  units  in MH and MWATH
for human resource management, for financial management and budget
control, and for management development and planning.
     (b)  Support to health policy and strategy development.
2.   Strengthening of health service delivery.
Part B:   Health Logistics
1.   Upgrading the management of drugs and supplies.
2.   Improvement in equipment and vehicle maintenance and repair.
Part C:   Family Planning
1.   Development  of  family   planning  strategy  and  monitoring
capabilities.
2.   Enhancing the delivery of family planning services.
3.   Support  to  family  planning  activities  of  non-government
organizations.
4.   Facilitating  the  provision  of  information,  education and
communication.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$200,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Sri Lanka may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works  may  be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's competitive bidding  procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Construction of the Gramodaya  Health  Centers may be carried
out  under   the   Borrower's   procedures   satisfactory  to  the
Page  9
Association.
3.   Contracts for goods grouped  in  packages costing the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or less  each,  and  up to an aggregate amount of
$1,000,000, may  be  awarded  in  accordance  with  the Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Miscellaneous items  grouped  in  packages  estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $20,000, and up to an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of  $200,000,  may be procured on the
basis of comparison of  quotations  solicited  from at least three
suppliers eligible under  the  Guidelines,  in accordance with the
Borrower's procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with
the procedures described in  Part  A.1  hereof, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association  pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2  (d) shall be
furnished to the  Association  prior  to  the  making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  or  cause  to  be employed consultants
whose qualifications, experience and  terms  and conditions of em-
ployment  shall  be   satisfactory   to   the   Borrower  and  the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Borrower and the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   (a)  The   Borrower   shall   appoint   and   maintain,  with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  in MH and MWATH,  the  Deputy Directors General for
               Human   Resources    Management,    for   Financial
               Management   and   Budgetary   Control,   and   for
               Management Development and Planning, respectively:
Page  10
         (ii)  in MH, the Deputy Director General for Logistics;
        (iii)  in  MH  and  in   MWATH,  Directors  in  the  Human
               Resources  Management,   Financial  Management  and
               Budgetary Control,  and  Management Development and
               Planning units, respectively; and
         (iv)  in  the  Population   Division   of  MOPI,  to  the
               professional   positions    in   the   Information,
               Education and Communication, and Research, Training
               and Evaluation units, respectively.
     (b)  The Borrower shall appoint  and maintain qualified staff
in  adequate  numbers   in   the   units  responsible  for  health
management, health  logistics,  and  family  planning, and provide
such units promptly with funds, facilities and resources necessary
to carry out their functions.
2.   (a) The Borrower shall appoint and maintain in MOPI a Project
Coordinator with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  establish  and  maintain the Project
Steering Committee under  terms  of  reference and with membership
satisfactory to the Association.
3.   (a)  The Borrower  shall,  by  August  31,  1992 complete and
furnish to the Association  a  health strategy and financing study
carried out in accordance with  terms of reference, and by persons
whose  qualifications  and  experience  are  satisfactory  to  the
Association; and
     (b)  The Borrower shall, as the  result of the review of such
study with the  Association,  by  December  31,  1992 commence the
implementation of health  financing  measures  satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
4.   The Borrower shall,  by  August  31,  1989  complete terms of
reference satisfactory to  the  Association for the implementation
of special programs under Part A.2 of the Project.
5.   The Borrower  shall,  by  September  30,  1988,  and  by each
September 30 thereafter,  furnish  to  the Association for review,
health policy research work plans for the next calendar year.
6.   The Borrower  shall,  by  September  30,  1988,  and  by each
September 30 thereafter,  furnish  to  the Association for review,
plans for training under the Project for the next calendar year.
7.   (a)  The  Borrower   shall,   without   limitation  upon  the
provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, by March 31,
1991, and by March 31, 1993, respectively, complete reviews of the
execution of the Project  conducted  under terms of reference, and
by persons whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
the Association.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, by  June  30,  1991  and by June 30,
1993, respectively, discuss  with  the  Association the results of
such reviews and an  action  plan  reflecting  the findings of the
reviews.
     (c)  The Borrower shall thereafter  implement the action plan
in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Association.
8.   The  Borrower  shall  provide   support  to  family  planning
activities of selected non-government organizations under Part C.3
of the Project,  in  accordance  with arrangements satisfactory to
the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  11
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to SDR 600,000 to  be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  minus the
Page  12
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after  and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special  Account  as  of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
