Document of                 FLF  CO  )v
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rert No.P-2495-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 27, 1979
Tbis denwmet b a redsricted dubtiom and may be med by relpients ogly In the performnce of
their ocia duts. bs eotts may net oerwie be discod without World Dank autheriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1978)
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$  1.00                  DA  4.02
DA   1.00                  US$ 0.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)    0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)            2.47  acres (ac)
1 liter (1)               0.2642 US gallons
1 metric ton (m ton)      2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CNAN:         Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation
DR:          Directorate for Road Infrastructure (Ministry of Public Works)
NPW:         Ministry of Public Works
NR:          National Road
SNTF:        Societe Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires
SNTR:        Societe Nationale des Transports Routiers
SNTV:        Societe Nationale de, Transport des Voyageurs
SONATRACH:   Socigte Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport,
la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiary:         Ministry of Public Works
Amount:              US$126.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Seventeen years with a four year grace period, and
interest at 7 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The project would help relieve the most important con-
straints in the Algerian road network by increasing the
cost-effectiveness of road maintenance organization,
rehabilitating and reconstructing sections that con-
stitute potential bottlenecks in the road network,
training maintenance personnel, and strengthening the
planning capacity of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW).
The loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of:
(i) equipment for routine and light periodic maintenance
within a two-year time slice of a five-year maintenance
program; (ii) a two-year time slice of a pavement strength-
ening program; (iii) reconstruction and supervision of a
51 km section of the National Road 1 (NR 1) between La
Chiffa and Berrouaghia; (iv) training of maintenance
personnel at all levels; and (v) technical assistance to
the MPW for planning and preparing a comprehensive highway
investment plan including feasibility and engineering
studies.
Benefits include improved road access throughout the
country, reduction in transport costs, and savings in road
expenditures including foreign exchange savings, result-
ing from optimum use of existing roads and more efficient
maintenance organization. Direct beneficiaries include
public transport enterprises and small truck owners; all
road users would benefit indirectly in the form of lower
costs than would otherwise occur.
The project faces no special risks although realization
of the expected benefits of the maintenance program will
depend on the timely implementation by the Government of
its portion of the maintenance program. Administrative
shortcomings in Algeria combined with constraints in the
national construction industry could cause some delay in
civil works implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                 -----US$ Million ------   Percent
Local   Foreign   Total   of Total
Maintenance Program                          7.3     34.3      41.6       17
Pavement Strengthening Program             25.8      27.9      53.7       23
La Chiffa-Berrouaghia                      45.3      29.9      75.2       31
Training Program                            3.5       3.3       6.8        3
Technical Assistance                        2.2       6.8       9.0        4
Total Base Cost                          84.1    102.2    186.3         78
Physical Contingencies                      7.3       6.5      13.8        6
Price Contingencies                        21.8      17.3      39.1       16
Sub-total                                29.1      23.8      52.9       22
TOTAL                                   113.2    126.0    239.2       100
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                            126.0
Government                           113.2
239.2
Government would also finance $131 million of recurrent
costs associated with a two-year time slice of the main-
tenance program.
Estimated
Disbursements:                           ----------- US$ Million ----------
FY      1980       1981       1982       1983
Annual              17.5       28.5       38.0       42.0
Cumulative          17.5       46.0       84.0      126.0
Rate of Return:    80 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2333-AL of March 29, 1979



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US$126.0 million to help finance a third highway project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum of the Economic Situation and Pros-
pects of Algeria" (1816-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 17, 1978. An updating economic mission visited Algeria in May 1978.
The main conclusions of the mission are given in the following paragraphs.
Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.         In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending
1980. These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by
referendum in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and
organize the production base, enabling the economy to reach, by about 1980,
a stage of self-sustained growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve
economic independence, which implies that the country would rely first on
its own resources for development, although international economic relations
would be expanded and diversified; and (iii) to improve income distribution,
particularly among regions. These objectives, and the strategy which has
evolved towards their implementation, take into account the country's physical
and socio-economic potential; the country's leadership is deeply committed
to them. Political developments following the illness and death of President
Boumediene have not affected Algeria's prevailing economic policies. A smooth
transfer and wider participation of power among political institutions have
characterized the transition leading to the election of President Chadli
Bendjedid and the appointment of a new Government. Emphasis has been put on
the need for better utilization of existing capacity and on reduction of
Algeria's dependence on imports of foodstuffs and other consumer goods. The
strategy of the new development plan is expected to be discussed and the Plan
approved during 1979.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must



- 2 -
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the
rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the economy
will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management structures,
introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of people's
assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already effective
at local government level, has been introduced at the national level by the
new constitution approved in November 1976.
5.        Taking into account the improved financial prospects resulting from
increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the objectives of the 1974-77
Plan were: (i) to increase the level of investment in order to speed up the
construction of the country's productive base and economic infrastructure and
the expansion of community and social services; (ii) to restructure the invest-
ment program in favor of non-industrial sectors and less developed regions
outside the coastal plains and Northern valleys, and (iii) to increase the
number of unskilled jobs and improve individual consumption levels and the
distribution of growth benefits. The Plan also called for vigorous implementa-
tion of the measures aimed at decentralizing and improving economic management
introduced by the Government since 1971.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the Plan. The growth of fixed investment averaged 15 percent per year
in real terms and its ratio to GDP at current prices rose to 48 percent of GDP
in 1977 from 41 percent in 1973. While hydrocarbon production was uneven
during 1974-77, depending on technical and external market circumstances, GDP
growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors where it averaged 8.5 per-
cent per year. A high rate of national savings, averaging 39 percent of GDP,
was achieved, and national savings financed 84 percent of total investment.
The marginal savings rate was 34 percent, thanks in large part to the sizeable
improvement in the terms of trade in 1974, which was only partly eroded there-
after. Employment creation was substantial with more than half a million jobs
created in industry and services. Consumption growth is estimated to have
averaged 9-10 percent per annum, reflecting the increases in income levels,
especially for the least favored groups in rural and urban areas (para. 9).
Finally, Algeria's performances concerning regional development have been
impressive during the Plan (para. 11).
7.        Developments were not as positive in several areas.  The implementa-
tion of the Plan generated imbalances between the high level of investment and
Algeria's financial and human resources and in the distribution of investment
between industry and other sectors. This led to pressures on the external and
domestic financial situation, and increased development lags in non-industrial
sectors and other constraints on efficiency in industry. Such constraints
included in particular skilled manpower shortages, limited management capac-
ity, and insufficient intersectoral and intrasectoral coordination. In 1976,



the Government introduced a program aimed at correcting sectoral imbalances
and overcoming efficiency constraints.   Real investment in non-hydrocarbon
industry was reduced while it was increased significantly in other sectors.
This trend was further emphasized in the 1977 budget law and annual plan.
Actual spending in industry in that year, however, exceeded budget appropria-
tions while investment targets in other sectors, except transportation and
housing, were not achieved. As a result of the high level of investment in
industry and despite an increase in current receipts from hydrocarbon exports
of close to 16 percent, the external financial situation deteriorated in 1977,
following an improvement in 1976; the current account deficit widened to $2.3
billion from $0.9 billion in 1976. Despite large disbursements on external
loans, committed through 1977 mostly from commercial sources, net foreign
reserves decreased by $300 million to two months of 1977 imports. These dis-
bursements were to cause a steep increase in debt service obligations in the
years immediately ahead. Following a marked improvement in 1974, resulting
from higher oil revenues, the situation of the Treasury also deteriorated in
subsequent years. Despite its large surpluses on current operations (bud-
getary savings), which have been the country's main source of savings during
the Plan, the Treasury showed large and growing overall deficits because of
the considerable appropriations for public enterprise investments and to cover
their operating deficits. For the same reasons, credit to the economy and
money supply increased sharply, especially in 1975 and 1976. The growth of
Central Bank advances to the Treasury remained limited, however, owing to the
mobilization by the Treasury of institutional savings of public agencies and
its correspondent's current surpluses.
8.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued with vigor,
especially in agriculture and industry. All agricultural units of the
Socialist and Agrarian Revolution Sectors are now responsible for their pro-
duction and investment plans, under the supervision of the local authorities
and the agricultural credit bank (BNA). These decentralization measures have
begun to have a beneficial impact on the output and financial results of
these units. In industry, most of the public enterprises are now under the
"socialist management" system, which should have a beneficial effect on
efficiency since it encourages decentralization of financial and technical
management from the enterprise level to the more manageable production unit.
Decentralization of the financial system, as well as decentralization in other
sectors in general, requires, however, revision of credit policy and financial
management procedures for which initial measures were taken under the 1976
and 1977 Finance Laws. It also requires increased financial and accounting
discipline in the enterprises, and enough experienced staff to strengthen
the banks, which will be a difficult and slow process. Decentralization and
strengthening of the distribution (marketing) system, especially for agricul-
tural products, still call for important measures to be fully efficient.
9.        Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, in favor
especially of the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contri-
bute to raising the living standards of those groups have included increases
in the guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer
prices for agricultural products and subsidization of basic commodities.
Further large salary increases (35 percent) were decided by the Government



- 4 -
in 1978. The disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation
of non-agricultural employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution,
multiplication of small- and medium-scale enterprises at the regional and
local levels, construction of public housing and rapid development of free
health care, education, training and other social services. Overall, Govern-
ment current and capital expenditure having a direct impact on social develop-
ment increased to 53 percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1977,
from 44 percent in 1973.
10.       According to the 1977 Census, Algeria's resident population was 17.3
million at the end of 1977, and 1 million Algerians were living abroad, mainly
in Europe. Between 1966 and 1977 annual population growth was estimated at
3.3 percent, and the urban population increased from 33 percent to 41 percent
of total resident population. Some 58 percent of the population is now under
20 years old. Together with the high rates of urban growth (5 percent), this
factor is causing an extremely rapid growth in the demand for housing, social
services, urban facilities and employment. Despite the priority given to
modern and capital-intensive industries in the development strategy, employ-
ment creation has been impressive during 1974-77. The unemployment rate in
non-agricultural sectors is estimated to have dropped from 17 percent in
1973 to 9 percent in 1977. Considerable efforts to create employment will
be needed, however, in coming years to cope with existing unemployment and
underemployment and absorb the additional labor force. In agriculture,
despite implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, the underemployment rate
has remained very high at an estimated 66 percent of the work force. This is
due to the seasonal nature and the low productivity of Algerian agriculture.
The labor surplus in rural areas is being steadily reduced by the large
regional development programs and by rural/urban migration. The other problem
facing Algeria is the acute shortage of skilled labor in many sectors. This
shortage is likely to persist for many years despite the considerable training
efforts which are pursued, often at very high cost, and the steady returns of
skilled workers from abroad.
11.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims at providing equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions and thus limiting internal migration. Regional
decentralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities
is very advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels
and is a major determinant of the country's regional development. In addi-
tion to the systematic location of heavy industrial investments in the
interior of the country under the national Plan, special programs for the
least favored wilayate, urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD)
programs have been implemented since 1974 as part of the Four Year Plan to
build the economic and social infrastructure needed by secondary cities and
rural communes. At the end of the 1974-77 Plan, a total amount of DA 11
billion had been budgeted for projects under the PMU and PCD programs, repre-
senting 40 percent of Government direct investment and 10 percent of the
country's total fixed investment. The establishment of local enterprises
(PMI) in construction materials and other small-scale industries and in ser-
vices has been successful in creating employment, using local resources, and
satisfying local demand. Implementation of the regional programs suffered



- 5 -
initial delays due to insufficient capacity at the local level for the iden-
tification, preparation and execution of projects but has accelerated since
1976 in most of the wilayate. The decentralized locations of several large-
scale projects bear little relation to market and factor availabilities and
may be expected to result in high investment and operating costs. The Gov-
ernment is aware of this, and considers these additional costs as the price to
pay for developing outlying regions.
12.       The Government decided that 1978 would be a transitional year
devoted to the completion of projects initiated under the 1974-77 Plan; the
introduction of a new multi-annual plan was postponed. Based on preliminary
estimates, GDP growth has been between 8 and 10 percent in 1978, propelled by
further increases in non-hydrocarbon sector output and an acceleration in
hydrocarbon output growth (8 percent). Agricultural production benefitted
from good weather conditions which permitted larger cereal harvests than in
1977. With higher capacity utilization in a number of existing and new
plants, manufacturing growth remained high. Reflecting large increases in
investment, the construction and public work sector continued to expand
rapidly. Total hydrocarbon exports increased by 7 percent in quantity, thanks
to a recovery in refined product output and large increases in liquified gas
output. They increased, however, by 8 percent only in current value, as
Algerian oil prices diminished in the first half of 1978, because of an
unfavorable market situation for light petroleum. The continuing cause for
concern in 1978 was the size of the investment program and the consequences
it would have on the country's financial situation and the imbalances between
industry and other sectors. The 1978 Government budget and investment plan
for public enterprises provided for a 30 percent increase in total public
investment over the 1977 actual amount in current terms. While the emphasis
on social sectors registered in the 1976 and 1977 budgets continued in the
1978 budget appropriations, the investment plan also provided for a rather
large increase in industrial investment, both in hydrocarbon and non-
hydrocarbon industry. It seems, however, that investment expenditures slowed
down in the last months of the year, with the program in industry not fully
implemented.
13.       The large import requirements of the 1978 investment program caused
a further widening of the current account deficit to an estimated $3 billion,
although there was drawdown on stocks of capital goods accumulated in 1977
and strict restrictions in other imports. Despite growing debt amortization
obligations ($1 billion), net reserves were nonetheless above their 1977 level
at the end of 1978, after having diminished until September. This was made
possible by large drawings made before the end of the year on the new loans
contracted by Algeria in 1978 to finance its investment program, especially
for gas development. New loan commitments and disbursements that Algeria made
in 1978, taking advantage of the favorable situation in the international
financial market, would have seemed excessive based on earlier Bank projec-
tions. In view of recent developments in world oil supply, however, future
increases in oil prices may well be higher than had been projected and, thus,
may significantly improve Algeria's debt servicing capacity. On the domestic
side, because of the large investment appropriations from Treasury to public
enterprises, the overall Treasury financing needs from the Central Bank have
increased significantly in 1978. In addition, the large salary increases
effected during the year have exerted further pressures on domestic prices.



- 6 -
14.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1978 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which is being prepared. The Plan is expected
to start in 1979, and to cover the period 1979-83. The investment strategy
which will be adopted by a commission of the National Party (FLN) should be
consonant with the country's long-term objectives and strategy. It is likely
to increase the relative emphasis on social sectors, especially housing, agri-
culture and water development, and foster regional development. Priority will
continue to be given to hydrocarbon development as a means of accumulating
financial resources. In contrast, investment in non-hydrocarbon industry will
probably be moderated and more strictly allocated, in order to complete on-
going projects, to achieve forward and backward linkages with existing indus-
tries, and to relieve constraints on the optimum use of existing capacities.
It should, in addition, be adjusted more closely to the rates of development
in non-industrial sectors and to the availability of financial and human
resources. The next Plan will also give special attention to measures and
programs aimed at improving economic and financial management, eliminating
sectoral deficiencies and bottlenecks and, generally, making the economic
system more efficient. The decentralization policy, which will be pursued,
should help greatly to improve the economic system--provided it is supported
by reinforcement of planning and supervision at the central level, revision of
price and credit policies and strenghtening of the financial system. Algeria
will still count on external services to assist in relieving existing con-
straints on efficiency.
15.       Algeria's prospects depend on four main factors:  the growth of
hydrocarbon exports; the level and composition of the country's investment;
its capacity for future borrowing; and the pace of improvement in the effi-
ciency of the economic system. Based on a careful assessment of these
factors, Bank projections show that the country should maintain a relatively
rapid economic growth in all sectors (about 8 percent yearly) during 1979-83.
The growth of gross domestic income, which incorporates the effect of terms
of trade changes, should be significantly higher (about 9.5 percent a year)
than GDP growth during that period because of the expected rise in both the
real price and the relative importance of gas. During 1984-1988, GDP growth
would remain high in non-hydrocarbon sectors, while it would decelerate in
the hydrocarbon sector because of the projected decline in crude oil output.
The decline in crude oil output after 1983 would, however, be offset to a
large extent by expected increases in condensate and natural gas output. The
resource gap of the economy would remain high until the early 1980's, with
consequent large external capital requirements, especially to finance gas and
condensate development for export. Although the resource gap is projected to
become a surplus when the large condensate and gas projects, presently under-
way or planned, begin to generate increasing export revenues, commercial loans
and credits with short maturities in relation to the gestation periods of
investments will induce rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The
country thus faces sizeable borrowing requirements well into the 1980's, but
in decreasing amounts in relative terms.
16.       Algeria will have to pursue an active, although prudent, external
borrowing policy. During 1979-83, external borrowing requirements are pro-
jected to average about US$3.9 billion annually in terms of commitments. The
projected commitments are considerable but within Algeria's debt-carrying



capacity. In terms of access to external sources of financing, these amounts
appear manageable since the gas contracts into which Algeria has entered
provide for partial financing of gas treatment and liquefaction plants. The
amounts to be mobilized for gas and condensate development are expected to
constitute more than 70 percent of the projected financing requirements from
commercial sources during 1978-81. Suppliers' credits should be available to
finance other industrial investments, most of which will probably be imple-
mented by foreign contractors. Borrowing from official sources would remain
relatively small. These include OECD and centrally planned countries, the
African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC; Algeria signed a
financial and trade agreement with the EEC in April 1976. The experience
Algeria has acquired on the international financial markets should enable it
to manage its external borrowing requirements, and possibly also to improve
the conditions of future external commercial loans, as has been the case in
1978. At the end of 1976, aware that liquidity problems could be caused by
the heavy recourse of public enterprises to external borrowing, the Government
set up an External Financing Committee. The Committee is chaired by the
Governor of the Central Bank; it examines all external-credit requests by the
enterprises and the terms of borrowing, and monitors external indebtedness.
Algeria has not used IMF resources. Its IMF quota is SDR 285 million.
17.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at $8.2 billion ($13.8 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 42 percent of GDP. Debt service increased from 14 percent
of goods and non-factor services expDrts in 1975 to 16 percent in 1976 and 18
percent in 1977. Based on borrowings and disbursements up to 1978 and the
projected new borrowings, debt service may rise to a level above 25 percent of
exports by the early 1980's. It should decline subsequently in relation to
exports when the large condensate and gas projects come on stream. Bank lend-
ing, past and projected, represents only a small fraction of the country's
external financing requirements. At the end of 1977, the portion of Algeria's
total debt outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank was estimated at 1.7
percent; this share will rise somewhat over the next years, but is projected
to remain below 3 percent at the end of the decade. By 1984, the likely
receipts from gas exports alone would exceed projected total debt service
payments. Algeria's external borrowing needs will be large in the next few
years, but can be accommodated in view of the considerably enhanced capacity
to carry debt which the country has acquired in 1974 as a result of the new
relationship between the prices of hydrocarbons and other commodities in
world markets, the long-term prospects for gas exports, and general economic
performance. Algeria is creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
18.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed in
FY73. Since then, fifteen loans have been approved totalling $720 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of December 31, 1978
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. While the physical execution
of most projects is progressing well, disbursements for some loans have been
slow. This is particularly the case for the loan to the Algerian Development



- 8 -
Bank (BAD) and the technical assistance loan for rural development. For the
project with BAD, slow progress in improving institutional arrangements, an
important objective of the project, has hampered disbursements. The rural
development project has suffered from delays in selection of consultants.
Both projects are now advancing satisfactorily and disbursements are expected
to pick up shortly.
19.       The provision of technical assistance and institution-building
support is a major objective of the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic and sector management, project preparation, implementa-
tion and financial control. Economic efficiency and financial management have
been prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government. Previous proj-
ects have included technical assistance to foster the financial system's
appraisal capability and improve auditing of national companies. The project
proposed in this report, as well as the two previous highway loans, includes
technical assistance to improve the planning and management of the highway
subsector in Algeria and to train its personnel. Most projects contemplated
for the coming years are expected to have one or more technical assistance
components. Another important objective of Bank strategy is to assist Algeria
in relieving potential constraints to further development focussing on sectors
such as transport infrastructure which have lagged behind the overall develop-
ment of the country.
20.       Within this broad framework, Bank lending has emphasized support
mainly in education and infrastructure. Lending for education has accounted
for 26 percent of Bank committments in Algeria. Lending for transportation
(highways, railways, ports) and power has accounted for 36 and 13 percent
respectively. In industry, two projects (including a loan to the Algerian
Development Bank, BAD), represent about 12 percent of Bank lending. To date,
Bank lending in agriculture has consisted of a technical assistance (rural
development) loan. Last year, however, the Government requested the Bank to
prepare an agriculture sector survey and several projects eligible for Bank
financing. The Bank is acting as executing agency for UNDP in the preparation
of these projects. Finally, during the last fiscal year, the Board approved
an $82 million loan for a First Sewerage Project in Algiers. Engineering
studies are being financed under this loan to prepare similar projects for
Bank financing in two other major Algerian cities.
21.       In addition to the project presented in this report, two other proj-
ects are planned to be submitted to the Executive Directors during this fiscal
year. The first operation would consist of a first tranche of a technical
assistance loan of $20 million to the national company for metal construction,
SN Metal, for the start-up of two metal fabrication plants in Oran and Annaba.
The second operation would involve a $30 million loan for a project to expand
the production, processing and marketing of meat, and would be carried out by
the Office National des Aliments du Betail (ONAB). Projects planned for sub-
sequent years include education, water supply/sewerage, irrigation rehabilita-
tion, agriculture and rural development, industry, highways, railways and
urban development. This lending program, by stressing objectives going beyond
the simple transfer of resources, responds to Algeria's efforts for rapid
socio-economic development.



-9.-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
22.       Algeria's transport network consists of some 60,000 km of classified
and at least 20,000 km of unclassified roads, about 4,000 km of railways,
eight major ports, four international and ten domestic airports, and about
6,000 km of oil and gas pipelines. The road and rail networks, which handle
over 95 percent of all inter-urban goods and passenger traffic, are concen-
trated in the northern coastal and high plateaux regions, which comprise
about 20 percent of the total land area of 2.4 million km2 and house about
90 percent of the total population. The networks connect all major Algerian
cities and link the country with Morocco and Tunisia. Transport services
are provided by two public road transport enterprises, the Societe Nationale
des Transports Routiers (SNTR) and the Societe Nationale des Transports de
Voyageurs (SNTV); one public enterprise for railways, the Societe Nationale
des Transports Ferroviaires (SNTF); one national shipping company, Compagnie
Nationale Algerienne de Navigation (CNAN); a national airline, Air Algerie;
and SONATRACH, the national oil company, for pipelines. These agencies,
under the general supervision of the Ministry of Transport, are responsible
for practically all transport in the country.
23.       The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the overall planning
and coordination of all investments in roads, railways, ports and airports,
based on proposals submitted by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and the
public enterprises. The MPW is responsible for the planning, preparation
and execution of all infrastructure work for roads, ports and airports, and
provides assistance for railway infrastructure. The Planning Ministry coor-
dinates transport investments with those of the other sectors. The Training
and Test Division in the MPW's Directorate of Personnel and Training is
responsible for specialized training for the public works sector. Because
of rapid growth, a shortage of qualified staff continues to hamper sectoral
planning and project preparation and implementation. The Government has
begun implementing new large-scale training programs and improving educational
facilities, and is currently carrying out a nationwide review to assess the
effectiveness of existing personnel policies in the public sector which is
expected to result in greater equality between working conditions in the
administration and those in the public enterprises. For the present, the
Government continues to rely on assistance from consultants to supplement
existing staff for specific project preparation and implementation activities
while developing local staff in appropriate qualifications and numbers to
gradually assume full responsibility.
24.       Algeria's development strategy in the past, stressing the rapid
establishment of a diversified and integrated industrial base within a general
policy of regional development, has resulted in a commodity traffic growth
rate of 12 percent per year. However, only about 6 percent of annual public
expenditure has been earmarked for transport infrastructure maintenance and
development while in countries with a similar GDP per capita the amount allo-
cated averages 15 to 20 percent. As a result of the increasing backlog in
modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance, both the road and railway net-
works are now below standard for existing and forecast traffic, and are



- 10 -
inadequate to fulfill their crucial supporting role in economic development.
To remedy this situation, and in recognition of the need to consolidate the
past development effort, particularly industrial development, the Government's
present strategy is to decrease proportionately industrial investment in favor
of support sectors such as the social services and infrastructure. In addi-
tion, new large industrial investment will be gradually shifted away from the
northern coast and valleys to an east-west axis on the High Plateaux, to
achieve both wider spatial distribution of development and a more equal income
distribution. Other industrial investments are expected to focus on improving
backward and forward linkages among large industrial units already in place.
The Government has thus increased transport infrastructure investment in the
1978 and 1979 budgets and is expected to retain this emphasis in the Third
Development Plan (1980-84). Sectoral strategy is likewise expected to empha-
size more cost-effective maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading of the main
road network; improved operations, modernization of infrastructure and renewal
of equipment for railways; and improved working efficiency coupled with some
expansion of existing port infrastructure.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Transport
25.       The purposes of Bank lending for transport in Algeria are to assist
the Government in accelerating the development of this sector which has
not kept pace with the overall economic development of the country, in
improving sectoral institutions and in developing sound concepts of economic
and financial planning. Since 1973, the Bank has made five transport loans
for railways (Loan 996-AL), ports (Loans 995-AL and 1427-AL), and highways
(Loans 912-AL and 1407-AL). The $49 million loan for railways, which sup-
ported SNTF's rehabilitation program, provided for rolling stock equipment,
track rehabilitation and technical assistance. The first port loan pro-
vided $70 million for the construction of the Bethioua port (Arzew) for
export of liquified natural gas, and technical assistance. The second port
loan provided $80 million for the construction of the Jijel port to serve a
steel complex, and technical assistance for the port construction company,
SONATRAM, and for project design and supervision. A second railways project
is scheduled for FY80. On-going discussions with the Government may lead to
Bank assistance in increasing the efficiency of the Algiers port.
26.       The First Highway project involved a loan of $18.5 million for
improvement of several road sections, purchase of equipment and studies. The
physical components of this project have been completed satisfactorily and the
studies carried out have served as the basis for the second and proposed third
projects. Loan closing has been extended to June 1979 to permit completion
of studies in progress which focus on components expected to be included in
an eventual fourth operation (FY81). Implementation of the $41.5 million
Second Highways Project has been slow, due mainly to an unsuccessful first
round of bidding for the major component, construction of the Boudouaou-
Lakhdaria section of the main road between Algiers and Constantine. The first
round of bidding for this $100 million contract was declared unsuccessful on
the basis of lack of competition (one unresponsive bid was received) and
unacceptably high unit costs. Nine new bids were received in January 1979
and are currently being evaluated. They range from 90 to 160 percent of



- 11 -
appraisal cost estimates. The contract is expected to be awarded by end-April
1979. The Second and proposed Third loans together would represent about
one-third of the foreign exchange cost of road expenditures in Algeria over
the relevant periods.
The Highway Subsector
27.       The road network consists of about 19,000 km of national roads,
20,000 km of regional roads, 19,000 km of local roads (all classified by the
MPW) and some 20,000 km of unclassified feeder roads and tracks. Three major
east-west and three major north-south roads traverse the country (see map).
The road network as a whole provides an adequate density of about 2 km of road
to 1 km2 of cultivated land, comparable to many areas in Europe, and corres-
ponds well with the existing location of population and economic activity.
However, a large proportion of paved roads, which constitute 63 percent of the
total network, is in poor condition due to increasingly heavy traffic combined
with inadequate and delayed maintenance. In addition, the alignment of many
roads, corresponding closely to the rugged topography in the alternating
mountains, valleys and plateaux which parallel the coast, is inadequate for
existing and forecast traffic volumes. These difficult conditions explain in
some measure the relatively high cost of road improvement and construction
prevailing in Algeria.
28.       The vehicle fleet numbered about 532,000 in 1977, of which about 40
percent were heavy vehicles. The average annual growth rate of heavy vehicles
since 1971 has been about 25 percent, compared with a rate for cars and light
trucks of about 9 percent. There is, nonetheless, still only one vehicle for
every 32 inhabitants, a ratio lower than that of most other countries with
comparable per capita income. About 73 percent of freight and 85 percent of
inter-urban passenger traffic is carried by road. Annual growth has averaged
16 percent for freight and 20 percent for passengers between 1970-77. Road
traffic is projected to increase at an annual rate of 10 percent through 1984.
29.       The former Ministry of Public Works and Construction was reorganized
in early 1978 with the creation of a separate Ministry for Housing and Con-
struction. As a result, the focus of the new MPW is now more sharply directed
on transport infrastructure. An internal reorganization of that Ministry
following the split is likewise expected to result in a growing responsiveness
to the needs of the sector. The new Directorate for Road Infrastructure (DR)
is responsible for the administration of the road network, including its
design, construction and maintenance. The DR operates in the field through
31 provincial (wilaya) directorates to which it provides technical assistance.
The provincial directorates carry out construction and maintenance on national,
regional and paved local roads, assist local authorities in the maintenance
of other local roads, prepare development plans, and submit proposals and
requests to the DR.
30.       The MPW finances all expenditures for national, regional and paved
local roads. Expenditures for existing and new unpaved local roads are
financed by local administrations in the context of specific agricultural



- 12 -
programs. Total expenditures on roads under MPW's responsibility (i.e. clas-
sified roads) have increased steadily since 1974. Budget allocations for road
infrastructure in 1979 are expected to reach $257 million, of which $77 mil-
lion are earmarked for maintenance and $180 million for capital investments.
Annual investments would remain at that level through 1981, in constant terms.
Revenues from road user taxes and charges more than cover the highway sub-
sector's share of transport infrastructure investments and are adequate to
cover expenditures at the projected higher levels.
31.       The modest level of investment in transport, and particularly in
road infrastructure over the past fifteen years has hindered the growth and
efficiency of related construction industry capacity. As a result, and in
view of the projected increase in transport investment, increasing emphasis
will be put on attracting foreign contractors through ICE to carry out the
largest and most technically difficult road works. This policy is expected
to relieve local construction industry constraints in the medium term and
to provide the competitive atmosphere necessary to strengthen and expand
the domestic construction industry. The Government also urges domestic
contractors to compete for large contracts through ICR and has introduced
measures to encourage joint ventures. The combined capacity of existing
domestic contractors with the expected foreign participation would be ade-
quate to implement the planned investment program.
32.       Because the development of the transport system in Algeria, and of
the road network in particular, has failed to keep pace with the overall eco-
nomic growth of the country, the sector constitutes a potentially serious
constraint to continued economic and regional development. The Government
is aware that the success of its development strategy (see para. 24) will
depend in large measure on the ability of the transport sector to accommodate
it. The Government's objectives, then, in the highway subsector include:
(i) rehabilitation and upgrading of the main road network to meet current and
forecast demand; (ii) increased and improved road maintenance; and (iii)
reconstruction of those sections of the primary network which constitute
major bottlenecks to regional as well as national development. The proposed
project would fully support these objectives, and would in addition provide
assistance in the preparation of road development plans and in training the
manpower required for the MPW in general and its road maintenance program in
particular.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The investments foreseen under the proposed project are designed to
respond to the Government's priority needs and to complement and supplement
the Bank's previous lending in the highway subsector. The components were
selected on the basis of studies partly financed under the First Highway
Project. The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in May 1977,
and prepared by the Government with the assistance of consultants and two
Bank missions in October 1977 and April 1978. The project was appraised in
September/October 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1979.



- 13 -
The Algerian Delegation was headed by Mr. Ben Malek, Director of the Treasury
in the Ministry of Finance. A report entitled "Algeria, Staff Appraisal
Report of a Third Highway Project", (No. 2333-AL) dated March 29, 1979 is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project
Summary is provided in the beginning of this report; a Supplementary Project
Data Sheet, Annex III, and maps showing the national road network and the
location of project works are also attached.
Objectives and Description
34.       The proposed project responds to the Government's objectives in the
highway subsector by focusing on the cost-effective maintenance and strengthen-
ing of existing roads and by helping relieve one of the major potential bottle-
necks in Algeria's national road network, on the north-south National Road 1.
It would also have an important institution-building impact on the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW) through the provision of technical assistance and funds for
training maintenance personnel. The project would consist of: (i) a two-year
time slice of a five-year maintenance program including provision of equipment
for routine and light periodic maintenance; (ii) a two-year time slice of a
paved roads strengthening program; (iii) reconstruction and supervision of a
51 km section of the National Road 1 (NR 1) between the towns of La Chiffa and
Berrouaghia; (iv) a program for training all levels of maintenance personnel;
and (v) technical assistance to the MPW for planning and preparing a compre-
hensive highway investment plan including feasibility and engineering studies
for the national, regional and local road network.
Maintenance and Strengthening Programs
35.       Studies carried out under the First Highway project have shown that
40 percent of national roads and nearly 75 percent of regional roads are resur-
faced only every 10 to 13 years. In addition, a major share of all routine
and light periodic maintenance operations, which would be carried out most
cost-effectively by the provincial directorates, is instead contracted out at
high cost. The cause of these deficiencies has been insufficient equipment,
personnel and budgetary allocations. The Government has prepared a comprehen-
sive five-year (1980-84) road maintenance program designed to restructure and
consolidate the organization of maintenance operations at all levels and is
increasing budgetary and personnel needs accordingly. By permitting an annual
15 percent increase in maintenance operations, this program would ensure an
acceptable resurfacing interval of 5 to 6 years and the implementation by 1984
of routine maintenance and surface dressing by the provincial directorates.
Substantial savings would thus be derived from both greater cost effectiveness
of maintenance operations and the avoided periodic reconstruction which would
be necessary in the absence of such maintenance. The proposed project would
cover a two-year time slice of the five-year program, and the loan would help
finance the equipment necessary to fill the needs for this program in terms of
routine maintenance and surface dressing, largely for the new provinces. Con-
tractors would continue to carry out heavy periodic maintenance, rehabilita-
tion and new construction. Lists of maintenance equipment were agreed during
negotiations, and assurances were obtained that the Government would carry out
the program according to an agreed timetable of physical targets and would



- 14 -
make provision for: (i) annual budget allocations; (ii) timely renewal of
maintenance equipment; and (iii) additional personnel, all as needed to carry
out a two-year time slice of the program (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
36.       Routine maintenance and periodic surface dressing are generally
sufficient for those roads where the pavement structure is adequate to carry
the traffic forecast for the next 10 years. Where the pavement structure is
inadequate for present and future traffic levels, the road must be strength-
ened by asphalt concrete overlays. Other works including widening, realign-
ment and improvement of the shoulders may also be required in some cases to
accommodate traffic. A highway master plan, also financed under the first
Bank loan, has identified a long-term program of pavement strengthening for
primary and secondary road sections. The proposed loan would finance the
foreign exchange cost of about 270 km of road sections for which standards
are adequate but which require strengthening, representing a two-year time
slice of the strengthening program. About 170 km of roads are fully prepared
and ready for tendering. The remaining 100 km, identified on the basis of
priority, would be prepared according to criteria and procedures agreed during
negotiations, and would be approved by the Bank prior to tendering of the
works (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The criteria include evidence
that the economic return on the road section equals or exceeds 10 percent and
that implementation would not commence before its optimal year.
La Chiffa-Berrouaghia (NR 1 Section)
37.       Of the three main north-south arteries in Algeria the most important
is the NR 1 which climbs from Algiers onto the high plateaux and into the
Sahara, where it becomes the Trans-Sahara road to the southern border of the
country. The most tortuous section of this road is that between La Chiffa,
a town about 5 km west of Blida on NR 1, and Berrouaghia, a growing industrial
town about 20 km south of Medea, another larger commercial and industrial town.
This section of NR 1 passes through the deep gorges of La Chiffa, crosses the
La Chiffa river and climbs into the Atlas mountains to the high plateaux.
The capacity of the road is insufficient for present traffic levels and was
identified at the time of the First Highway appraisal as one of the major
potential bottlenecks to economic and regional development in the area. The
main deficiencies of the section include a narrow pavement, sharp curves
and occasional flooding and landslides which can block the entire road for
extended periods of time. Under the project, about 44 km of the existing
roads would be replaced by a modern two-lane highway with climbing and down-
grade passing lanes on those sections where capacity constraints warrant the
additional works. The 7 km section which winds through the river valley, and
is the most complex and costly to improve, would be designed to accommodate
traffic for about 20 years but only at reduced levels of service. The project
would provide for consultants to assist the staff of the MPW to supervise the
construction works.
Training Program
38.       The MPW provides training for its staff in five schools, three to
prepare foremen and two to prepare technicians. However, the quality and



- 15 -
output of the training presently provided for the public works sector as a
whole is insufficient for present and future needs. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the MPW's training capacity (see para. 23) would be
strengthened as needed to ensure that the overall training needs of the sector
are identified and adequately translated into effective training programs.
The Government also confirmed that it would carry out an in-depth study of the
existing MPW schools with a view to upgrade the curricula offered and improve
the coordination of the Ministry's training effort for all public works sector
personnel.
39.       As regards maintenance personnel, the efficient implementation of
the five-year maintenance program will require a substantial increase in their
number and level. Funds would thus be allocated under the loan for training
facilities and equipment, and for the recruitment of instructors to implement
a program for (i) training skilled workers and intermediate level mechanical
personnel, (ii) upgrading middle and high level mechanical maintenance per-
sonnel, and (iii) training Algerian instructors to carry on the instruction
program. About 1,600 technicians, foremen, mechanics and equipment operators
would be trained in two converted construction camps in Arzew and Batna, each
supplemented with an adjacent mechanical workshop. Training equipment would
be installed in the workshops, and road equipment provided to train equipment
operators. Training of an additional 500 staff and upgrading of 500 middle
and high level mechanical maintenance personnel would be carried out in
periodic workshops and by seminars. The output of this program would provide
sufficient staff for the effective execution of the maintenance program.
Details of the training program were discussed and agreed during negotiations
and assurances were obtained that this program would be reviewed annually
with the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that a sufficient number of
experienced Algerian technicians would be made available to be trained as
instructors and that the required number of personnel would be promptly
released from operational units for training and upgrading (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.06).
Technical Assistance and Studies
40.       About 300 man-months of consultants would be provided under the
project to assist MPW staff in construction supervision of works for the NR 1
section. The project would also provide about 1,000 man-months of consultant
services to assist the MPW in the preparation of comprehensive road develop-
ment plans, specific investment programs, feasibility studies for about 800 km
of roads and detailed engineering for about 500 km of priority roads. Related
guidelines for these studies were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
Project Implementation
41.       The MPW would be responsible for the overall implementation of the
project. The Directorate for Road Infrastructure (DR) (see para. 29) would
be responsible for the maintenance and strengthening programs, construction
of the NR 1 section, and the employment of consultants for construction super-
vision and studies. It would also supervise the road maintenance and con-
struction works executed by the provincial directorates. The Directorate of



- 16 -
Personnel and Training of the MPW would be responsible for the training pro-
gram through the Test and Training Division. Bidding documents for 170 km
of roads under the strengthening program and for the first lot of maintenance
equipment are completed and prequalification for NR 1 works is in progress.
The bulk of the works included under the project would be implemented between
1980 and 1982. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment would make available all rights of way needed for the timely implementa-
tion of the project.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
42.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $239.2 million, of
which $48.4 million for the maintenance program including training, $128.9
million for civil works, $9 million for technical assistance and $52.9 million
for physical and price contingencies.  Costs for road maintenance would con-
sist of $41.6 million of capital investments for new equipment and $6.8 mil-
lion for training. Recurrent costs for this component are estimated at an
additional $131 million.  Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent
of the estimated cost of civil works and technical assistance. No physical
contingencies were calculated for maintenance and training equipment as needs
were accurately defined at negotiations. Price contingencies are based on
price escalation rates over the period of project implementation, estimated at
14 percent of foreign costs and 19 percent of local costs, or an average 16
percent of the baseline costs. The cost of consultant services for highway
studies is estimated at an average of $6,000 per man-month. The proposed Bank
loan of $126 million, representing 53 percent of total project cost, would
finance the foreign exchange cost of the project. The balance of $113.2
million, as well as the $131 million of recurrent costs for the maintenance
program, would be financed by the Government. Taxes are included in the local
cost component. Assurances have been obtained that all necessary budgetary
funds would be made available for the proposed project.
Procurement and Disbursements
43.       Civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. Bidders for the construction of the NR 1 section would be pre-
qualified; those for the pavement strengthening program would be post-
qualified. Construction works for NR 1 would be awarded in a single lot,
and contracts for pavement strengthening works would be awarded by section
or group of sections to encourage participation of foreign contractors. In
the evaluation of bids for equipment, local manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty applicable to
competing imports or 15 percent of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. It
was agreed during negotiations that the Government would guarantee the satis-
factory completion of civil works contracts awarded to any public entity under
the project, and would apply an adjustment formula, similar to that agreed
during negotiations of the second highway loan, in bid evaluation when a dif-
ference in advance payments among bidders appears in the bidding documents.
Consultants for training, construction supervision and technical assistance
would be engaged in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the



- 17 -
Bank. The proposed loan would be disbursed against 45 percent of total
expenditures for civil works, 100 percent of foreign cost and of local cost
ex-factory for maintenance equipment, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for consultant's services.
Benefits and Risks
44.       The proposed project represents an integrated and diversified
approach to improvement of the national and regional road network in Algeria,
combining cost-effective maintenance and strengthening operations with
reconstruction, and providing technical assistance to strengthen the planning
and design capabilities and increase the skilled work force of the MPW. The
maintenance and strengthening programs, both designed to optimize existing
road use at minimum cost, would complement each other in so far as improved
maintenance will reduce the amount of rehabilitation or reconstruction that
would be necessary under existing levels of maintenance, while the strengthen-
ing program will reduce the cost of increased maintenance that would be
necessary to preserve existing roads in their present condition. Both pro-
grams would reduce transport costs. Upgrading and partial reconstruction of
the NR 1 section, a vital link between the capital and the rapidly developing
high plateaux, would support regional development through improved access to
the interior thereby alleviating migration to the coast, reduce transport
costs and journey time and eliminate delays resulting from periodic flooding
of the existing road. Expected savings in operating costs in the first year
of operation are estimated at 20 percent for light vehicles and 15 percent for
trucks.
45.       As the proposed project works would be implemented country-wide,
benefits would be spread over a wide area and to a large part of the total
population. The main direct beneficiaries would be the public transport
enterprises and owners of private light vehicles; all users of transport
services would benefit indirectly from slower increases in tariffs as a result
of savings in operating costs accruing to the public enterprises. The Govern-
ment would benefit directly from savings, both local and foreign exchange,
resulting from a more efficient maintenance organization and from avoided
rehabilitation and more intensive routine maintenance costs. The overall
maintenance program has an economic return of over 200 percent and a benefit/
cost ratio of 13:1 discounted at 10 percent. The returns on the strengthen-
ing program range from 10 to 50 percent depending on the road section.
Returns on the 170 km already prepared range between 25 and 35 percent. The
return on the improvement of the NR 1 section is estimated at 20 percent with
a first year benefit/cost ratio of 12. Alternate improvements were considered
for the maintenance and strengthening programs and the optimal solution was
retained. Under assumptions of a 20 percent increase in costs combined with
a 20 percent decrease in benefits, the rate of return on the NR 1 section is
16 percent. Assuming a 10 percent return on the entire strengthening program,
which understates the actual rate expected, and based on weights of 54, 18
and 25 percent respectively for the maintenance, pavement strengthening and
reconstruction components, the overall return on the quantifiable components
of the project is at least 80 percent. The unquantifiable components of the
project, which represent about 4 percent of total costs, are expected to yield



- 18 -
substantial benefits in the form of improvements in the planning and design
capability, and an increase in the skilled work force, of the MPW.
46.       There are two main risks that can be identified at this stage.
First, if the equipment for the maintenance program were not made available on
the schedule agreed, optimal road maintenance levels would not be achieved.
However, present maintenance needs are such that even with a shortfall of 20
percent in equipment, the program would still be justified. Second, adminis-
trative shortcomings in Algeria, combined with the expected heavy demand on
the national construction industry, could delay the civil works implementation
of the NR 1 section and pavement strengthening components. The Government's
commitment to improve the transport network, and its intention to rely in part
on foreign contractors to implement its investment program, could be expected
to minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Arti-
cle III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
48.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for highway
projects. Special features of the draft Agreement are referred to in the text
and listed in Section III of Annex III.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
March 27, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
TABLE 3A
ALGERIA - SOCUL INDICATORS DATA SREET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ALGERIA 
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           2381.7                                                     SANE         SANE     NXT HIcHER
AGRICULTURAL     454.5                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP La
GNP PEk CAPITA (US)                  500.0        560.0    1110.0           1438.5       867.2      1746.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      252.0        342.0     754.0            816.7      578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                         10.1         13.4      17.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.7          35.6      39.9             45.8        46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IM.                         4.0          6.0       7.0             23.2       50.8         27.6
PER SQ. ER. AGRICULTURAL LAND      23.0         30.0      37.0            112.4       93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.0         47.2 /f   48.0             46.0       42.9         34.B
15-64 nRS.                          52.0         48.4  f   48.8             50.6       53.5         56.0
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                    4.0          4.4       3.2              3.3         3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.1          3.2       3.4              2.9        2.5          1.6
URBAN                               7.2 ^        4.4       5.6              5.0        4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.9         50.0      48.7             45.0        37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.6         18.4      15.4             13.7        10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.5       3.5              3.4         2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..             14.7       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             143.9        100.0     101.1            107.1       107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUTIDEMNTS)                    73.0         78.0      88.0             99.2      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           47.0         45.0      57.2             63.4       63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        14.0 /h       9.0      13.7             16.4       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..         12.0  f     ..               ..         8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    45.6          50.7      53.3             53.7        57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            86.0 Li        ..         .             77.7        53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      77.0             59.1       56.8         67.7
URBAN                                           84.0     100.0             85.9        79.0        83.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      61.0             38.0        31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          9.0      67.0             64.3        30.9        70.3
URBAN                                           13.0     100.0             94.5        45.4        90.7
RURAL                                 ..         6.0      50.0             27.7        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7930.0 jj   7860.0    7400.0            4271.6      2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       2730.0    1320.0           2077.4      1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             280.0 /h    340.0      370.0            580.2       493.9       275.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..           310.0       229.6       129.9
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..      2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         14.3       18.4            22.0        22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGSE SIZE OF HOUtEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..              5.4         5.2         3.9
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..         5.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..              ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..         2.0         0.9
URBAN                                ..          2.8  f      ..             1.8         1.5         0.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..              ..         2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                           34.0 L                    40.3        64.1        59.2
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..        67.8         78.0
RURAL                                ..         12.0  I      ..            12.2        34.1         12.5



-20-                                                            2ofANE   I
v                                     ~~~~~~~Page 2 of 7
TABLE 3A
ALGERIA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ALGERIA                                                  /
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT IIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Jb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Lc   GROUP /d    GROUP L/
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLNENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         75.0       77.0 /Ik         80.8        99.8        97.6
FEMALE                37.0        58.0       72.0             61.8        93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:   rOTAL                  8.0         11.0       26.0 /k          23.6        33.8        47.8
FEMALE                 6.0          6.0      13.0             18.2        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 29.0          20.0        2.0 /k.l         6.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0        40.0       41.0             31.5        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                           18.0        21.0       26.0             22.3        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        26.0       35.0 /k          50.1        71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0        11.0       12.0             14.5        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         54.0           ..      198.0            125.8      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0          8.0       25.0             34.5       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAP1ER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPUELATION                  28.0        15.0       17.0             17.4        45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           6.0        3.0              1.6         4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2700.0      2600.0 /f 3600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.2         4.1        4.3              9.3       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               67.0        50.0       42.8             42.0       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.1         14.6       15.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 26.7        22.7       22.3             26.9       33.8         33.7
MALE                                  51.3        44.4       43.4             46.6        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                                 1.7          1.8       1.9              5.3        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8         2.6        2.4              1.9         1.4         1.4
INCOM1E DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..        ..               ..       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..              ..        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..         4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..        13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..       191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..           142.0       193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        *-            236.1       319.8       448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..                      144.7       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       ..              21.5        19.8        23.2
RURAL                                 *-          *-       *-              37.4        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
/a    rhe adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Uppper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1966;  IR  1954-60;   /h  1962;   /i  1965, Algerian
population only; /1 1963; /k 1977; /1 Certain fields of study previously classified under other
second level education of a vocational or technical aeture are now reported under general education;
therefore data not comparable with those of earlier years.
September, 1978



-21-                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
KEY TO COtNTRIES BY REGION AND INCOMd GROUP/a
legion/Uncone Group                Leot Lncose/b                     Lacer Middle               Inter. diate Middle                    Upper Middle           High Incor lf                Co-/tries
Inc-n/n                      Incon/d                              I-nLt.                                          Oil Enportere
Yenta                   Mdcl.i            Angnla                    cban                                   DJiboiti                   Cabon
-urundi                 Mali              Sotaana                   Ixory Coast ..tn.                            f
Central Afric-n Tp.   Moztmbiqu-          C r-on                    MAcritios
Chad                    Niger             Cape Verd.'               Roibi.
Co_ore                  R-and.            Congo, P.R.               Seychelles
irhiopia                Pterre "e-ne      Eqaaerial Oniasa
AFRICA SOUTY          Cbabia, The             S-nalis            Liberia
OF SAHARA              uinca                  Tan.a-ia          Meeritani
c-insa-Bissa.           Togn              Nigeria
Kenya                   Uganda            Rhodesia
Le-oth                  uppper Tols       Sa. To-n & Priniipa
Tadag.sa.r              Zaire             Senegal
Sedan
Soseiland
Zmbia
SOOTYEAFRICA  Ugypt                       Meroeea                   Algeria                                Bahrain                    I-r-el                     lpaatt
NORTH AFRTCA          Yeun A .R                                                           Jordan                                  Iran                       Lcrn                       01bps
too  M10100           Yn-n   P.D.R.                                                       Syrian ASR.                            Iraq                                                   Qata
FAPT                                                                                      Teolsia                                Leb.non                                                 o     Cra
United Arab Entr
Afghaoio ten            Meldni.e.
SOUTH ASIA            S    .an                 Nel
Bhtta I..akia tan
Stoeto                  Sri Lan.k
Indi:
CanbNdia                                   N    bnidoc              Chlna, SRp, of                         Fiji                       A-e i-an Sa-o
Undonesia                                 PapeP   N.. Geinsa       Gilbert Island.                         Ronn  Xong                Bruni
EAST ASIA             L,  P.? DR.                                Philippines              Korea, Rep. of                                                    Fronch Polyaeaia
Selenen  n-lande                          Thailand                 MHcco                                                              eCar       i
Viet Nan                                  Tong-                     Malas                                                             gao Caledonia
Wetara So--              Treat Tarnitory of thb  P-aitin                                   sinoap-re
Haitt                                     Solivia                  Q:tigua           Geatanla              Argentina                BShaa.
Rl Salvador              BSi.e             Jarnina              B.rbadom                   Rarnuda
Grenada                  Chile             Menirn                B-ail                     Cal Tone ..
LATIN AMERICA                                                   Ca ye                     Colobi.a           tl ..ra.e.          Frn   Oniane Mirtini..
ANY CARIBBEANA                                                    ondura                  Coat. Rita        Parag.ay             C,,delonpe                 Vansatala
St. VTincnt             SDinina            Pare                 Netherl nda  Vatillec      Tirgin S-lande (U.S.)
Dtnican Rep.   St. Eitta-N-iS          Pan
Ein-der           St. LUita            PSr-  Rit
S-rim=r
Trinidad   Tobago
Urug-vs
Ttrkey                                 Cyprus                    Ch.a.el Isenda
EUROPE                                                                                                                          MI      f M                 Ps roe Iland
Reetinig                  Cr tnand
Yugesleri                 Spain
Atetra ha         Finland                       Italy              NorF-y                  United Staits
INDUSTRIULIZED        concrie           France                        Japan               Soprh AfrOn
COUNTRIES             Gelgitt           leopapy Fed. Rep.  f          Ltenb-urg          Sleden
Canada            Iteland                      Nethrtland.         SGiterland
De n a-           Ir-land                      Heo Zealand          Snited Kingdon
Albania          GerAn Dn, ReP.             USSR
Sulgerie          YAngary
CENTRALLY PLANNED    Chine P.R. of    Kra So. Rap. of
ECONS MIES            Cub-              Mongoli
C.e.hoalovakia   P1pand
/0  Ia.nd In 197i GNP per capita in 1976 US doilar.
7b  S28D or le-a par opita.
fc  S281-550 par capita
Id  N551-1135 per capita
/7  $1136-2500 ptr capIita.                                                                                                                                                                         FPDF
7f  over S2500 per capita



-22-                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINMTONS OF SOCI'aL IDICATORSPa e 4 o                                                             7
lthcc    -co,gh the data are drawn from  sources generall'y judged the meat authoritative and reliable, It should also be Noted that thev nay not be inter-
.-' lt   Onsreol. because. .f the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countries in collecting the data.  The data are, nonetheless,
-e  Li    de...ribe orders of nagnituda.  indicate trends, and oharsoteri.e certain major difference  between cutia
adicted Irop averagtes for each indicator aer  population-weighted geometric meanw, excluding the extrene  -alues of the indicator end the moat
-p-     --ast-' in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data.
''c    ve'-aoo   t or Capital Surplus Oil Exoprters and indicators of access to cater and encret. disposal, housing.  intone distribution and poverty aer
ac-n   ;ooClao-uelghced geometric means without the exclusion, of extrase values.
itR-S., <torusand sv. bin)                                                              Population per hospital bed - total. urban. and rural - population (total,
Total surface area compriaing land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective sn-ber of hospital beds
ura  - Most recent esllnate of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
*tcanently for crops, pastures, market end kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishmentts permanently staffed by
1-  1a3lw.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are nout included. Rural hospitals. huwever, include health and nedi-
;NpcE  QVIcc  (igS$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permnently, staffed by a physician (hut by a medical am-
cacla  y spamne conversion method as world Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant. nurse, midwife. etc.) which offer in-patienat accosmeodation and
,960, 197C, and 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions net hoDspital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
iNE5-.7 CIC!SLWITIOIF PiR CAPITA - Annual consumption of coomercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
~coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and Leo-
t-r-,eal c1ectririty) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     NOIJSING
Average site of household (persons per household) - total, urban, anLd rural-
?CK':L_ATION _!,D VINAL. STATISTICS                                                           A household contsists of a group of individuals who share  livinLg quarters
7stal population, mid-year (millions).- As of July 1; if nor available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included In
averale of two end-year estimates, 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical d.efinitions of house-
Csca-c-p.lation (Parcen.t of tatal) - Ratio of urban to total populs-                        held vary.
ti.n; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparabil.ity                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nmn-
cf ziota among counttries,                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventiomaLl
?cc-.laticn density-                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permacnatt structures and
Per__so. cnm. - Xid-year population par square kilmomter (100 hoetaree)                     unoccupied parts.
2: catalacs                                                                             Acces s to electricity (perccent uf dwlig)-total, urban. and rural -
for 3s. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural. land                     ConLventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percenktage
nnly.                                                                                     of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.
.zcpulati.cp age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-h4 7ears), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adiusted enrollment ratios
Popuiation growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound  wammg.                     Primary school - total, and femasle - Total and famale enrollmentt of all ages
irowth rates of total sod urban mid-year populations f or 1950-60.                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primacy school-age
)'60-7 0. cci 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-il years but adjuated fat
Crude birth. rate (per thousand) - Anmual live births par thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year pupulatios; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percenct since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimAte,                       above the of ficial school age.
rC-ae death rate ( per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Be....dary school - total, and femial  - Computad as above; ..s.oudaop adora-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending ia 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instructionk; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate.                            video general vccational, or teacher training instructions for ;tu 'Is
Gross zeotoduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generalLy
in her narmal ieproductiva period if she experiences present age-                         sexcluded.
specific fertility cates; usually five-year averages*  ending in 1960,                  Pocetianal enrollment (peccant of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clad. technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independantly
iameily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of seconkdary institutions.
accoptors of birth-control devices under -auspicee sof national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - 2rimary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planting program.                                                                          primary end secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in thei corre-
Family plannine - usece (percent of maccid women) - Paraantagm  of                           spod.ina levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-h4 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age grasp,                                            a percentage cf total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND PP0TRITION                                                                      CDNSUMMTON
Iodex of 0usd p-od-tion per capita (1970-100) - Index mmmber of per                     -sa-senner cats (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual prroduction of all food tosffodltias.                                     seating less than eight persona; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Pat zcapita supply of calories (pecrent of raouirsoentns)   Compusted from                 vehicls..
energy equivalent of net fond supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All'types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports loes                  broadcasts to general public per thousand of Population; excludes unlicensed
exports. and caanges in stock.  Not supplies exClude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries snd in years when registration af radio sets wea in
tuantities used in food processing, and lossee ink distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since, most countries
fuiratmants were estimated byf PAD based on physiological noeds for wor-                aboliahed licensing.
ruel activity aad health considering eanvirsomeantal temperature, body                 TV receivers (Par thousand population) - TV receivers f or broadcast to genreL'
waeights. age and sax distributions of population, and allowing 10 pet-                    public per thou,aamd population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Pot capita supply of  prti   ga a pr Iay) - Protein content Of per                       Newspaper circulation (par thousand population) - Shove the average circuis-
capita met supplo of fHdprdy    er supply of fond is defimad sas                           tioc of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
acove.  Recquirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devotet primAarily to recording generai news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grasa of total protein per day and 20 gramsa                     be "daily" if it appears at least four timas a week.
sf aaiaal. and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendasce per capita Per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admlssious to drive-ln cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein aa as average fsr the world, proposed by                       units.
7-AOiIn the Third World Food Survey.
Par zapita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                ENPIDTMENT
derived from anim-as and Pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor forts  (thsuaanda) - Economically active personas, including armed
ChIld (ages 1-4c) mortality rate, (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, student,s,  tet.  Dafini-
and in age groap 1-h years, ta childcen In this age gooup.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Temale (percent) - Female labor fortesas percentage of total labor farce.
REALTH                                                                                    Aericulture (percent) - Labor forte in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Lifo sonectanscy at birth (years) - Average nsumber of years of life                         as parcantaga of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year everagee ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, comatruction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, waLter and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rare (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total. ma1a, and female - Total, male, antd
one year of  gag  per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total. ugban. and rural -                     These, are IMO's adjusted participstion rates reflecting Age-sex
lumber of people (tatal. urban, snd rural) with reasonable access to                       structure of the population. find long time trend.
Aa0e water supply (inLcludes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic desendemcy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
*.tcontaminated water ouch as that from protected borekoles, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and asoitary walla) as percentages of their respective populations.
In as urban area a public foantain or Itamdpsst located not more                      INCOME DISTRIBUTTON
tnan 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within tea-                    Percentage of orivate income (both in cash end kind) received by richest 5
annable acassa of that house.  In rural areas reasonable accees would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent. and poorest 40 percenut
inoly that the housewife or members of the househoald do not have to                       of househoids.
upend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
-ater coeds.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access cc secreta disposal (percent of copulation) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absoiute povertv income level 01$prcpt)-uban and rural -
rr   - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
Cisoosa1 as percentages of their respective populations.  Encreta                          nutritionally adequate diet pius essential noni-food requicements is not
..tc.s  may include tba coilectian and dispasal. with or vithsut                         affordable.
.racot,  a human sunceta and waste-cacao by vater-borse systems                     Estimated relative norvan  income level (US$ per capita,    ra  and rural -
cIa th  e of pil privies and similar installations.                                       Relative povety income level is that income leIl- es  than on-hird
:t:  -ln 1et Dh',elcian - Population divided by, number of practicing                      par capita personal income of the country.
.ccnu   uaifiled from  a nedicai school at university level.                   Estimated copulation below povertv income level (percent) - urban andrua-
fatuiarc.xs car curs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ingnes    - Population divided by number of      Peccenxt of population (urban and rural) whu are nither "absouepsro
-?raccccLing male and female graduate nusex, practical nurses, and                          "relative psor" whichever is greater.
Eico...ic and Social Data Division
Icononic Analysis and Projections Department



- 23 -
Page 5 of 7 pagas
Actual                 tat. 1/    Projected I.                Grotuh Rates                          1977
1973       1975         1977      1978       1983         1988      1974    1979    1984                 Shar of GDP
1977    1.93    1988
A. 5ATIO3tAt ACCOUNTS
(DA elilions: 1974 conecent price.)
1. Gross domestic prodact                               50,435      54,305     62,255      67,767     99.085      132,772      5.5     7.9      6.0                 100.0
2. Gal.. from kever  of trade                          -10,766      -3.3"      -2,910      -3,811       2,173       8,623       .       .                            -4.7
3. Gross domestic incom  (1+2)                          39,669      50,906     59,345      63.956    101,258      141,395    10.6      9.6      6.9                  95.;
4.  Tep-rts                                             14,500      22,870      25,800     28,246      35,562      44,427    15.5      47.7     4.6                  41.4
5S  Etports - volu_                                     21.390      20.226     22,121      23.849      35,458      35,880      0.9     8.3      0.2                  35.5
6.  E.ortr  - TT edjusted                               10,624      16,827      19,211     20,039      37,631      44,503    16.0    13.4       3.4                   30.9
7. letoorce gp - 1T adjuscad (4-6)                       3,876       6,043      6.589       8,207      -2,069         -76      .        .        .                   10.6
6.  Total conspetion                                    25.810      32,466     37,610      40.122      58,450      88,705      9.9     7.8      8.7                  60.4
Poblic conoaaption                               5,720      6,770       7,760       8,481     13,460       20,769      7.9     9.7     9.0                   12.5
Privt* conaueption7 20,090                                 25,696      29,850      31,641      44,990      67,956    10.4      7.3     8.6                   47.9
9. Total icve._nt                                       17,735      24,483      23,324     32,041      40,739      52,614    12.4      4.9      5.3                  45.5
Fixed Investment                                15,770     21.153      27,564      32,383     40,300       52,000    15.0      4.5     5.3                   44.3
LO. Statistical adjautmet                                                          -          -            -          -
11.  National sevinis                                    14,574      18,690      21.200     22,956      40,364      51,351      9.8    11.9      6.2                   34.1
12.  Domestic Saaings                                    13,859      18,440     21,735      23,834     42,808       52,690    11.9    12.4       4.2                   34.9
13. GDP at corr. prices (US$ eilliton)                    8,723      14,370     19,401      22,713      51,491      97,852    22.5    17.8    13.7
14.  Fixed  nvestecnt at current prices (085 0            3,582       6,219      9,327      11,724      19,618      32,925    27.0    10.8    10.9
t5.  FPead inv.stetpGDP  (current)                         41.1        43.3       48.1        51.6        38.1        33.6
B. SECTOR OLTPLT
(DOitrtibtien in Percenteges; 1974 constent price.)
1. Agriculture                                             7.2         9.3        6.5      -6.0           4.9         4.3      2.7     3.7       3.5
2.  Hydroc-rbons                                          40.5        34.3        33.3       32.1        32.1        22.7      0.3     7.9      -1.0
3.  Other lcd.str-                                        20.8        25.2       28.5        29.5        30.0        33.7    13.9      8.3       8.6
4. Services                                               31.5        31.2        31.7       32.4        33.0         39.2     5.4     8.4       9.8
3. Non-hydrocerbon output                                 59.5        65.7        66.7       67.9        67.9        77.3      8.5     7.9       8.7
C. PRICZS (1974 * 100 in US dollar)
1. Export price itdex (incl. MM)                          39.6       102.0       121.0      122.3       207.6       316.2    32.5    11.1        8.8
2.  Import prce index (tmcl, 89S)                         79.7       122.5       139.4      145.5       195.7       255.0    15.0      6.1       5.4
3. Term  of trade index                                   49.7        83.3        86,8       84.0       106.1       124.0    15.2      4.7       3.2
4.  GDP deflator                                          72.4       110.7       130.4      140.1       217.2        308.1    15.8     9.2       7.2
ydrocsrbon value added deflator                     35.3        95.2      115.3       116.2       202.9       318.6    34.5    11.8        9.4
5. Avrage exchange rate                                   3.959      3.949      4.147            b                              _
D. SELECTED INDICATORS
(Co.Muted at 1974 conetant price.)                      1974-77         1979-83           1984-U
1.  lCOR 2/                                                4.0              4.9              5.6
1.1  1CU non-hydrocArben econom                        5.3              6.3              5.6
2.  TOtAl   vorr elasticit3y                               2.82             0.60             0.77
2.1  Non-&ipital ieport  atIsticity                    1.33             .0.85            0.75
3. Average natitonl .avings rate/GDY                      38.5             39.6             38.4
4. Margi.al national savings rate/GM                      33.7             46.7             27.3
5.  Ieports/GDY                                           41.2             38.0             32.4
6.  1.vestnt/GDY                                          45.9             44.0             38.1
7.  Resource gp/GDY                                         6.7             4.9             -1.8
S. PUBLIC FrNuC  (Central Govecoment)                                                                            Esi.
(as ?. of GDP at corrct prices)                           1973             1975             1977             1978
1. Correct revenu                                         31.9             44.5             43.8             42.5
1.1  hydrocarbon r-e  nu                              11.9             23.7             22.4             20.2
2.  Curreot expenditure                                   18.6             22.6             18.9             18.0
3.  Gov ernet savings                                     13.3             21.9             25.0             24.5
4.  Capital expenditure                                    10.8            10.0             13.2             13.,
5. Loa  and advancs (not)                                 12.1             21.8             24.4             25.5
6.  Overall Treasury b-lance                                3.7            -7.1             -7.5             -9.6
F. IABOR FORM  (in thousands)
1966           1973           1977
t. Agricoltural, total                1,270          1,480         1,693
- permemtly employed              (450)          (520)         (570)
- Seaonally e_ployed              (820)          (960)        (1,123)
- pervntaga of oderemployed        64.6           64.9          66,3
2. Non-egncultural, total             1,180          1,700         2,309
- *cti_                           (860)         (1,407)       (2,100)
- unployed                        (320)           (293)         (209)
- perccntage of uneployed          27.1           17.2           9.1
I/  Staff FetietsC
C2/  Gsoerd to GM vith one year lag baetwen intvstment ad ovtput.                                                  lot applicable                               CPl17
ail or less then haLf of dit shon
cot projected



- 24 -
ALGeRLA                                                                                                                        ANNE I
Page 6 of 7 pages
ALANCE OF PLY'EB!VS AMD E=rENXS. ASSISTANCE
(Millions of US dollars: current prices)
Actual                              Est.          Projected
1969   1973       1974      1975       1976       1977       1978      1979        1981        1983        1988
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMEfTS
1. Exports (including NFS)                1,010    2,016      4,935      4,869      5,569      6,331     6,975      9,051      13,347      17,612      27,141
2. Imports (including NFS)                1,225    2,712      4,477      6,598      6,432      8,475     9,832    11,211       13,915      16,644     27,094
3. Resource 3alance                        -215      -696       458    -1,729        -863    -2,144    -2,857    -2,16e          -568         968          47
4. Not factor service income                -62       112         87         38      -107       -206       -337      -579        -936      -1,124        -816
1. Interest payments                     -11       -83      -218       -235       -381       -454      -532       -784      -1,161     -1,435      -1,328
2. Interest receipts                      25        20       148         72         83         86        53         60          76         144        268
3. Direct Investment inco               -241        _         _           1          2          1       -30        -38         -54         -70       -106
4. Workers' remittances                  166       226        202       265        254        246       266        286         327         374        525
5. Other factor services (net)            -t       -51       -45        -65        -65        -85       -94       -103        -124        -137       -175
5. Currant transfers (net)                   48        89        43         32         41         28         50        50          50          50         50
6. Balance on current account              -229      -495        588    -1,659       -929    -2,322    -3,144    -2,689        -1,454       -106        -719
7. Private direct investment                 41        51        360        97        179        173       200        200         200         200        200
8. Official capital grants                   23       -39       -427         -         -          -           6         6           8           8          8
Pu.bblic X&LT loans
9. Disbursements                             87    1,597         631     1,705      2,157      2,670     4,073      3,772       4,130      3,138       5,279
10. Amortization                             -54      -234       -467      -433       -517       -713    -1,048    -1,389       -2,484     -3,010      -4,340
11. Net disbursements                         33    1,363         164     1,272      1,640      1,957     3,025      2,383       1,646         128        939
16. Short-tern capital                        -        -           -        -          -
17. Capital transactions n.e.i.              ill      -277       -525        72       -262       -124       -
18. Changes in reserves (- . increases)       21      -603       -160       218       -628        316       -87        100        -400       -230        -428
19. Net foreign exchange reserves            476    1,096      1,315      1,066      1,608      1,413     1,500      1,400       2,100      2,779       4,525
B. GRANT AND LOAN COIITMENTS
I. Official grants                            23         3        -          -         -          _           6
2. Total public M&LT loons                     ..    2,305      1,453     4,125      2,642      2,543     4,050
2.1  IBRD                                   -        25       158         48        151      '170        172
2.3  Other msultilateral                   ..         -          -         -          -          -        25
2.4  Governments                           ..       375       169        244        244        193       400
2.5  of uhich centrally planned            ..        (4)       (27)     (112)        (1)       (10)     (300)
2.6  Suppliers                             ..       290       666      2,116      1,002       925   )
2.7  Fina.cial institutions                ..    1,544        399      1,717      1,245     1,187   ) 3,453
2.8  Bonds                                 ..        71        61          -          -        68
C. MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant element of total coneitments         ..    6.1        16.8       10.5        6.8       8.4        7.9
Z. Average interest (percent)                  ..    8.9        6.7        7.7        8.2       7.8        7.8
3. Average maturity (years)                    ..   14.1       13.1       10.4        9.8       9.3       11.3
1/ Staff Estimates
- Nil or less then half of unit shown.
Not available.
EMIA CPIIB
Maerch 1979



- 25-
ALGERIA                                                                                                                                 ANNEX I
DEBT A'D CREDITWOZTHINESS                                                Page 7 of 7 pages
Actual                                        Est.-
1969       1973      1974       1975       1976       1977        1978
A. SMDInM AND LONG-TERM DEBT
(millions of US dollars)
1.  Total debt outstanding (DOD;  nd of period)                              678      2,932      3,304     4,477       5,855     8,165      11,190
2.  Including undisbursed                                                   1,210      4,916      6,002      9,591    11,440    13,785       16,787
3.  Public debt service                                                        65        317        685        668        898      1,167       1,580
1.  Interest                                                               11         83       218        235        381        454         532
B. DEBT BURDDEN (percentage)
1.  Debt service ratio                                                       6.4        15.7        13.9       13.7      16.1       18.4       22.6
2.  Debt service and direct investment incom  ratio                                     15.7        13.9       13.7      16.1       18.4        23.1
3.  Debt service/GDP                                                         1.6         3.6         5.5        4.6       5.4        6.0         7,0
4.  Public debt service/Government revenue                                   5.4        11.4        12.2       10.4      13.9       13.7       16.3
5.  Total DOD/GDP                                                           16.1        33.7        26.4       31.1     35.5       42.1        49.3
C. TERMS (percentage)
1.  Interest on total DOD/total DOD 21                                       2.3         5.6         7.4        7.1       8.5       7.8         6.5
2.  Total debt service/total DOD 2/                                         13.7        21.3        23.4       20.2      20.1      19.9        19.4
D. DEPENDENICY RATIOS FOR MHLT DEBT (percentage)
1.  Gross disbursments/imports  (including NIS)                              7.1        58.9        14.1       25.8     33.5       31.5        41.4
2.  Net transfer/imports  (including NFS)                                    1.8        47.2        -1.2       15.7     19.6       15.0        25.4
3.  Net transfer/gross disbursements                                        25.3        80.2        -8.6       60.8      58.4      47.6        61.2
E       EXPOSURE  (percentage)
1.  IBID disbursements/Total disbursment                                      -           -          0.3        2.2       2.6       2.0         1.8
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                       2 7         0 3         0 2        0 8      1 5        1.7         1.8
3.  IBRD debt service/Total debt service         *                           5.5         1.2         0.5        1.3      0.8        0.8         1.3
F. EXTERML DEBT  (disbursed only)                                                                       Ouustanding. Dec. 31. 1977
(millions of US dollars)                                                                               Amount         Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                                             138                 1.7
2.  Other smultilateral                                                                                3                  -
3.  Goversnts                                                                                     1,279                 15.7
4.  Suppliers                                                                                      2,439                29.9
5.  Financial institutions                                                                        4,102                 50.2
6.  Bonds                                                                                            204                 2.5
7.  Total public MLT debt                                                                         8,165                100.0
8.  Total public M6LT debt (including undisbursed)                                               13,785                168.8
G. DEBT/PROFILE
1.  Total debt service 1978-1982/Total DOD end of 1977 (percent):  178
1/ Staff Estimates
2/  DOD at the end of previous year.                               - Nil or less thae  half of unit shown                       ENEA CPIIB
March 1979



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                                    US $ million
Credit                                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Number        Year        Borrower                     Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbured                                           80.5
912 AL        1973        The Democratic and           Highways      18.5             4.1
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL        1973        The Democratic and           Education      3.5             2.4
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL        1974        The Democratic and           Ports         70.0            26.2
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL        1974        Railways-SNTF                Railways      49.0             7.6
997 AL        1974        Power-SONELGAZ               Power         38.5             8.5
1158 AL        1975        Banque Alg6rienne             Industrial   40.0            33.5
de D4veloppement             Credit
1159 AL        1975        The Democratic and           Tech. Aset.   8.0              6.9
Popular Republic of          Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL        1976        Soci8t& Nationale des        SNMC          46.0            27.6
Materiaux de                 Expansion
Construction
1209 AL        1976        The Democratic and           Education    47.0             43.9
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL        1976        Power-SONELGAZ               Power         57.5            26.1
1378 AL        1977        The Demo cratic and          Education    48.5             48.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL        1977        The Democratic and           Highways      41.5            41.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL        1977        The Democratic and            Ports        80.0            80.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1545 AL        1978        The Democratic and j/         Sewerage     82.0            82.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1595 AL        1978        The Democratic and           Education    90.0             90.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
TOTAL                                                 800.50         528.8
of which has been repaid                   84.36
Total now outstanding                                 716.14
Amount sold                              34.81
of which has been repaid    34. l
Total now held by Bank                                716.14
Total undisbursed                                                   528.8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)
1/ Not yet effective



-27-                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 912-AL  First Highway Project; US$18.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) June 30, 1979.
All project components are now substantially completed. A Comple-
tion Report is currently being prepared. Loan funds are almost entirely
committed; an extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1979, was approved to
permit full disbursement. It is proposed that the outstanding non-committed
funds, which amount to about $1.3 million, be used to finance extensions of
consultant contracts for feasibility and engineering studies for the proposed
Third and Fourth Highway Projects (FY79 and 81s respectively).
Loan 913-AL First Education Project; US$3.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) December 31, 1979.
The project is substantially completed. Implementation had fallen
over two years behind schedule when agreement was reached in 1978 to cancel
$2.5 million of the loan proceeds, $1.5 million for the Institute of Agricul-
tural Technology component and $1 million from the unallocated category.
Equipment purchases for the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy were also
approved up to about $1.65 million. The implementation of the remaining
component, equipment for two training centers of the Algerian Petroleum
Institute, is proceeding satisfactorily. Loan Closing has been extended to
June 30, 1979 to permit complete disbursement of loan funds.
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1978; (Current) June 30, 1979.
The project is substantially completed. Disbursements are somewhat
behind schedule but are expected to catch up soon. There has been a delay of
about 18 months in provision of LNG facilities and equipment but 2 LNG berths
are operational. Total project cost, based on contracts received, is about
$64 million less than the appraisal estimates of May 1974. Complete loan dis-
bursement is expected by the Closing Date of June 30, 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution. This part will be updated at grey
cover.



-28-                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: (original) December 31,
1978; (Current) December 31, 1980.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement has
proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, could not be com-
pleted by December 31, 1978 and the Closing Date has been extended to permit
their completion. Freight traffic has fully recovered from its 1976 decline,
and passenger traffic continues to exceed forecasts. A possible second proj-
ect, to be based on the next Four Year Development Plan (1980-1984), is under
discussion.
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date: December 20, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. Physical progress of the project is satisfactory. All main con-
tracts have been awarded. Delays have been encountered in the provision of
financial information indicating how the financial covenants under the loan
will be achieved. There have been some delays in construction which may
require an extension of the Closing Date.
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Progress in committing funds under this project has been slower
than anticipated, although the rate has been accelerating recently. As
of September 30, 1978, $25.6 million had been committed, compared to the
appraisal estimate of the full loan amount. This is due mainly to a substan-
tial delay in setting up the appraisal unit in BAD. Performance remains
disappointing as regards institutional arrangements for BAD to participate as
a decision-maker in the investment decision process, the improvement of which
was an important project objective. The Bank and the Government are now
discussing the situation and ways to improve it.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit sub-project is now proceeding satisfactorily. The con-
tract with the consulting firm (IRAM) for the extension subproject has been
signed and all nine expatriate technicians are in the field. Negotiations for
the mountain subproject have been concluded, resulting in contract signature
with Agrar und Hydrotechnik, and the consultants are in the field. After
rejecting all consulting firm submissions for the steppe subproject, Govern-
ment solicited a single-source bid from a consortium headed by the South
Australian Government. Signature of the contract is imminent. The contract
for the expatriate advisor to the project was signed in August 1977 and the
advisor has been in Algiers since October 1977.



-29-                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Loan 1185-AL  SNMC Expansion Project:  US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date:  April 7, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is substantially completed and
the plant is partially operational. Arrangements for technical assistance
are being made to compensate for delays in recruiting and training staff for
plant operations. Capital costs are expected to be about 20% higher than
anticipated but financing appears assured. Important measures have been
taken to restore SNMC's financial viabilitgy. The SNC technical assistance
program is not running effectively and the Government has been requested to
take prompt and appropriate action.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily
although disbursements are behind schedule. Following initial delays in
preparation of construction documents for Phase I due to administrative
problems, construction is now scheduled to start by March 1979; similar
delays in preparing ICB bid documents for equipment procurement are now being
offset. Implementation of the technical assistance program for the Institute
of Electricity and Electronics is about one year behind schedule; the remain-
ing technical assistance program is well underway, though also somewhat behind
schedule.
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project; US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall physical progress is satisfactory. Procure-
ment for substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the
Bank, but some delays have occurred in construction.  SONELGAZ has not yet
submitted to the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants
agreed upon will be achieved in large part because of the slow down in
decision-making resulting from the formation of the new Government. Appro-
priate decisions in this respect are now expected by the middle of this
year.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project got off to a good start, but has now fallen about 24
months behind schedule due mainly to changes in personnel at the Ministries
of Education and Labor at the end of 1977 and a prolonged bidding period for
civil works for the technicums. Construction is expected to start early in
1979. Implementation of equipment procurement and civil works for the two
vocational training centers is now over one and a half years behind schedule.



- 30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria
section of the Algiers-Constantine road, consultant services for construction
supervision and technical assistance. Implementation has been slow, due
mainly to an unsuccessful first round of bidding for the sole construction
component. Bidding on this $100 million contract was declared unsuccessful
on the basis of lack of competition (one unresponsive bid was received) and
unacceptably high unit prices. Nine new bids were received in January 1979
and are currently being evaluated. The contract is expected to be awarded
end-April 1979. Terms of reference for consultants to carry out construc-
tion supervision of this component are now being prepared. Training of
maintenance personnel of the Ministry of Public Works is expected to start
in March 1979.
Loan 1427-AL Jijel Port Project: US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project is about one year behind schedule due to delays in bid
evaluation, although this is expected to be completed soon. There have also
been delays in the construction of the steel complex which the port is to
serve.
Loan 1545-AL First Sewerage Project: US$82 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: November 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of the construction of combined sewer inter-
ceptors, the first stage of a sewage treatment plant, and technical assis-
tance to the Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), with a
view to creating a sound institutional basis for its operations and estab-
lishing new water tariffs to enable SEDAL to ensure its financial indepen-
dence. Project implementation has begun and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1595-AL Fourth Education Project: US$90 million, Loan of September 26,
1978; Effective Date: February 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is in its early stages and is proceeding
satisfactorily for the mechanical engineering institutes (NIME and NIMET) and
the teacher training school for technicums (ENSEP). Preparations for the
Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (IVIT), which had fallen several
months behind schedule due to some proposed technical modifications, are now
proceeding as planned. Project progress is being closely monitored by fre-
quent supervision missions.



- 31 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Government to prepare
the project:                             Fifteen months (June 1977 to
August 1978)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:        Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
(c)  Project first identified:                May 1977
(d)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:           September/October, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:    March 15, 1979
(f)  Planned Date of effectiveness:            July 31, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i)  the Government (MPW) would carry out the maintenance program
according to an agreed timetable of physical targets and
would make provision for: (i) annual budget allocations;
(ii) timely renewal of maintenance equipment; and (iii) addi-
tional personnel, all as needed to carry out a two-year time
slice of the program (para. 35);
(ii) documents verifying the technical and economic feasibility of
each section proposed for rehabilitation under the pavement
strengthening program, and prepared according to agreed cri-
teria and procedures, would be submitted to and approved by
the Bank prior to tendering of works on that section (para. 36).
(iii) the Government would make available a sufficient number of
Algerian technicians to be trained as instructors and would
promptly release from operational units the required number
of personnel for training and upgrading (para. 39).






s  /  oe                                         1,                                         1                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 12478R!
URITANIAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAEyTUIf
TRANSPOJAINT
~~~  MAN PARTS                                                                                                            7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HSS  ES-
5   ~     ~ ~       SRAAA '-A LASTS   ''.                                                                       I                                                      NIGER,)  LBY
% ~       ~       ECAT /~ IRDT                    7)>                    z.                        v           '                                            mnX
. E<ndoUf iAdror @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I B Y  Ag {
/ ~   ~     ~     ANP. NE                 --.. i9/                                      /         \       ,~   /         ,2,,,
'WAURITANIMACSA SARA                                                                                                                                         N
ALGERIA ~   ~    ~                                                                  LECC ~   I A L
TRANSPORTATION
[ INF RAST RUCTURE                                         IAES
.A N -ATIA- RAO5 '-                                                             A;i'   .E>' 
-- MA I -AhARA TRACKS                                                             6 REBx2  
NARRDI -.UE RA 11INAS                           -\                                                                         '
SEcGOcAll A RPORTS-*f                                                                                                                                NIGER                 2
~ GAS II" NES5o T                                                                                I                                     .           E.
I - RVERS AND INTE-MITTENT STREAMS                                 N                                                 S A         NINANNNINIINN
MOUNTAINOUS AREAS                         I oG     2        30011\Teent    2dd
--INTERNAT -NL SOUNA'IES             K         ILMETEIS                 M    A    L  I .i /sm,.el ';r o






25  r  03 ~ ~ E  ;  t;, '1:N *w  v  g  :iU b p:.,:  ,;;  :d>;1!;,: - iD  : ,,i,  g. .U D. . c= 5t;139979lp
A~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~ L    E R I                                !   ;A     '    iD,   ;:  cr. |\iii'  ,:">;;a :      71;.':>  e1'  .;'r:F::..'D;4  Q'   ;.,;    1a   ^'t      : m%  :zi     i''':S  8,':'i;'W;:':
;RA        NqW:ORK                                            i:     ;   :         L;,:;g;;iC.,:;:::i' :;':Q=;;to,::;lS,a  ;:::",:s:{2;:',!,ff;      :L;::S:;:>
w ipoEQ:;:::-hf : o,ttSC;:o:e: r.'S.S:Lu=:,>:i=z,;i;l,;DS ",lZiS';a;. C:;''';::-.i:l>: 4g :;
--* -OAP            UR -D                                                          ,l.41          ;jm.C,,01  ..   ii,N ,fa'E Sti.-HA..b               W --*~tiqAg            tPD2;iSv{   t '-:yg                   A
f-      kt/q {pgS_~f P ,,i.c  :   
: +rR,_g"M-
'   f ' S1e                                                              <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7 7 _ _  / Y 3 U O T * * S O 2 A 4 | A J \ / <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
\                                                                                                                    02                              b//-f                                      /                       y1



