Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No- 2016-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
March 16, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Kenya Sh    =     US$0.12
US$1.00     =     KSh8.30
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 KSh to
the SDR, the U.S. Dollar/Kenya Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in this report were made
at US$1.00 to KSh8.30 which is close to
the short-term average exchange rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th
ABBREVIATIONS
Government - Government of Kenya
AFC        - Agricultural Finance Corporation
MOA        - Ministry of Agriculture
LFMD       - Land and Farm Management Division
of MOA



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR                                                               For consideration on
EXECUTIVE                                                        March 29, 1977
DIRECTORS'
MEETING
THIRD WINDOW
R77-64/1
IDA/R77-23/1
FROM:  The Secretary                                           March 21, 1977
KENYA: Third Agricultural Credit Project
In modification of paragraph 5 of the Report distributed on March 17,
1977 (R77-64[IDA/R77-231) questions on the documents relating to this project
should be referred to Mr. Mutharika (extension 2802).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President, Operations
Executive Vice President and Vice Presidents, IFC
President's Council
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit for the equivalent of US$20.0 million on standard IDA terms
and a Loan for the equivalent of US$5.0 million to the Republic of Kenya to
help finance a Third Agricultural Credit Project. The Loan would be on
standard Third Window terms with first payment due on January 15, 1983 and final
payment on January 15, 2001. The proceeds from the Credit and the Loan relating
to the lending program (US$23.5 million) would be provided to the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) at a rate not exceeding 5% per annum. These funds
shall not be repayable to the Government but would be used by AFC to establish a
revolving fund to finance loans to smallholder and medium-scale farmers. AFC
would on-lend these funds to final beneficiaries at an interest rate of 11% per
annum for seasonal credit and 10% per annum for medium-term loans. An amount of
US$1.5 million for Technical Assistance would be provided as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects (Report
No. 1284a-KE, dated October 15, 1976) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in October 1976.
3.        With an average per capita income of $220 in 1975, Kenya still belongs
among the poorest countries in the world, despite an excellent rate of growth of
6.6% per year from Independence until 1973. The country faces two basic chal-
lenges in its development strategy: how to resume rapid growth and secondly,
how to ensure at the same time that the lowest income earners share in economic
and social progress. After the initial period of rapid economic growth, the
past three years have been difficult for Kenya. Growth slowed down in 1974 and
was brought to a near standstill in 1975, as accelerating world inflation
(including rising oil prices) coupled with persistent drought severely reduced
Kenya's import capacity and economic activity. Weather conditions improved in
1976 and unusually high coffee prices as well as depressed import growth helped
to reduce the deficit on the current account of the balance of payments, thus
providing some temporary relief. However, this does not eliminate the under-
lying problem of import capacity. Economic growth will have to follow a differ-
ent path in the future, in order to achieve high rates under this more severe
balance of payments constraint. The Government is now restructuring its
development strategy accordingly, and has implemented some measures while others
remain to be initiated.
This document has a restricted distribution ad may be uaed by recipients only in the performaee
of hei oficalduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



4.        Promotion of rapid growth was the major instrument through which the
Government sought to achieve economic as well as social objectives. More
investment was to create more employment opportunities and higher production
was to widen the tax basis thus allowing more public outlays for educational
and health facilities. However, Kenya's Third Development Plan FY74-78 already
recognized that although past economic performance had brought significant
benefits to the lower-income groups, the poor had not yet benefited as much as
desired. And with the slowdown in economic growth in 1974-76 the Government
has to devise policies of sharing losses in real income instead of distributing
progress equitably. The difficult question is now whether Kenya's development
strategy should continue to rely mainly on high growth rates to bring about
improved employment and income-earning opportunities to lower-income groups or
whether a more direct attack on poverty is required. The Bank intends to
undertake a study of this question in the next 12 months, which would include
ongoing programs directed at the poorer segments of the population such as
rural access roads, rural water supply and integrated agricultural development.
5.        The restructuring of the development process will have to be brought
about first and foremost in agriculture, the largest sector in Kenya's economy.
In the past, agriculture contributed in significant ways to rapid growth,
increases in productivity of lower-income earners and distribution of develop-
ment benefits; not only did the sector grow at an average annual rate of 4.7%
in total and 6% in monetary agriculture, the Government also brought several
hundred thousand small farmers into the market economy through special programs
in coffee, tea and dairy production. Nevertheless, this still left the majority
of the rural population (representing 90% of total population) in poverty. To
effectively assist these people in raising farm productivity and incomes is
already an awesome task in view of the number of families involved (probably
close to 500,000).      Moreover, agricultural support services have to be
progressively extended from high and medium to low and marginal potential
agriculture, which is often subject to high risks of periodic droughts.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and 1975
6.        In 1974, Kenya experienced with many other countries a serious setback
to its development efforts when soaring world inflation, increasing oil prices
and stagnating export demand coupled with adverse weather resulted in a large
balance of payments deficit and growth slowed down to around 4%. The terms of
trade dropped sharply, the widening trade gap led to an overall deficit and
Kenya had to use part of its foreign exchange reserves, notwithstanding IMF
assistance. At the same time, domestic inflation rose to an unprecedented 15%.
In 1975, GDP hardly grew at all (0.7%) due mainly to disappointing performance
in the agricultural sector where the incentives of higher producer prices were
frustrated by adverse weather for all crops except maize. Employment in the
modern sector declined while inflation continued at a high level of 19%. The
terms of trade deteriorated further but due to low levels of economic activity,
imports declined and the current account deficit as well as the overall deficit
were considerably smaller than in 1974.



- 3 -
7.        The Government has managed to maintain Kenya's relatively high
investments and savings levels in real terms, by reducing in particular private
consumption in the difficult years between 1973 and 1975. Public consumption
has, however, increased in real terms as government tasks are expanding steadily.
Kenya's budget policy has traditionally been conservative. Until the early
1970's, Kenya managed to boost revenue and public savings, thus allowing public
investments to increase with a relatively small supplement from foreign financing.
The high inflation of the recent years, however, led to a departure from this
favorable situation: in current terms the overall budget deficit increased from
$86 million in FY74 to $240 million in FY76 and it became necessary to use sub-
stantial domestic credit to cover this deficit in FY76, notwithstanding Govern-
ment attempts to contain expenditure.
Restructuring Program
8.        The economic crisis underscored the need to carry out fundamental
changes in Kenya's development strategy. Bank staff maintain a continuous
dialogue with the Government about the policies needed to bring about this
restructuring. This economic dialogue is reflected in the Restructuring
Program which the Government adopted in February 1975, outlined in Sessional
Paper No. 4 of 1975 on Economic Prospects and Policies. This Paper includes
a revised three-year forward budget for FY76-78. It supplemented earlier
action to minimize the loss of reserves and to control domestic demand through
sales taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to
users and a freeze in government recruitment. The Program includes global
monetary and credit policies to restrain consumption, to lessen the high import-
dependence and to make the economy more export-oriented; it sets somewhat lower
targets for growth of public expenditure in real terms than those in the
Development Plan FY74-78, without affecting the momentum of essential Govern-
ment activities. The Program also contains, however, policies to reallocate
public investment, away from infrastructure and towards more directly-productive
sectors (agriculture, industry and tourism), accompanied by improved sector
planning, project preparation and implementation in agriculture, increased
incentives to production by higher farmgate prices and a more systematic review
of agricultural input costs and prices. A re-orientation of industrial growth
towards greater use of domestic resources and expansion of exports of manu-
factured products, including agro-processed goods, is also included.
9.        Even though this sometimes requires politically hard decisions, the
Government has begun to implement the Restructuring Program. In the budget
area, procedures to ensure proper control have been strengthened. Within the
development budget a pronounced shift in emphasis has been brought about: the
share of the directly-productive sectors increased from 29% in FY74 to 45% in
FY76. Simultaneously, infrastructure projects with a more labor-intensive
character have been started. Major increases-in farmgate prices were introduced
in 1975 and 1976 which have brought Kenyan producer prices closer to import or
export parities at the official exchange rate. A continuing and systematic
review of these prices is now being mounted. These higher prices benefiting the
farmers are in most cases passed on to the domestic consumers. This has helped
to correct the adverse rural-urban terms of trade and avoid subsidies to be
carried by the Treasury. The Government has also introduced duties on hitherto
duty-free imports of intermediate and capital goods to encourage a more rational



protective system; it has increased the sales tax on luxury goods and is paying
an export subsidy of 10% to simulate manufactured exports. Last but not least,
the Government -- in conjunction with Tanzania and Uganda -- devalued the Kenya
shilling by 14% in October 1975.
10.       Despite these efforts more vigorous Government action remains to be
taken in other areas. Future industrial growth will depend on the promotion of
efficient industries, some of which may produce import-substitutes but most of
which will be required to compete in export markets outside the East African
Community. At the present time, the manufacturing sector is almost completely
dependent on imported capital equipment and spare parts, and heavily dependent
on imported raw materials and intermediate products. The linkages between
manufacturing and agriculture have not yet been fully exploited. There is also
a need to change trade policies and incentives which presently favor the import-
substitution industries at the expense of others. The Government is starting to
encourage small and medium-scale industries which are more likely to utilize
domestic resources and are less dependent on imported capital equipment than
large-scale enterprises; the International Finance Corporation has signed an
agreement with a commercial bank to promote medium-scale enterprises and a Bank
project to finance small-scale enterprises is presently under preparation. The
Government is preparing a comprehensive industrial program and intends to under-
take in-depth studies of special industrial issues such as promotion of appro-
priate technology and resource-based industries.
11.       The Government continues to make efforts to mobilize additional
resources for the public sector but in view of the already high tax effort it
may prove difficult to keep up with rapidly rising demand for both Government
services and investments. Special pressures on the budget at this time derive
from the GovernmentCs intentions to bring more services to the rural areas as
well as cost escalation on many development projects. The Government will,
therefore, require more external assistance. Moreover, after having held down
wages and salaries in the public sector for several years, the Government is
likely to experience difficulties in devising wages and incomes policies which
effectively hold domestic inflation below world inflation.
External Debt
12.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 6% (including a
notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations) is
expected to rise to about 10% by 1985. Including a notional share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 31% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and IDA
14%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 38% and the IDA share to 15%. Debt
service payments to the Bank are about 30% to total debt service payments; IDA's
share is less than 1%. These two figures are projected to increase to 39% and
1%, respectively, by 1985. These reflect the gradual switch by other donors
from loans to straight grants or to loans on very concessional terms in recent
years as well as the Government's very conservative commercial borrowing policy.
Despite the considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that it must finance
from external sources a substantial part of the costs of the development program,
including local costs.



13.       Kenya is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window terms on
the basis of the following criteria:
(a) Per capita income
In 1975 Kenya's GNP per capita was $220.
(b) Performance
The Government's strong commitment to development is
evident from recent high rates of domestic savings and
gross investments which have varied around 20% and 22%
of GDP, respectively, in the early 1970's. The Govern-
ment's Restructuring Program is basically sound and
public investments are increasingly addressed directly
to the rural poor.
(c) Ability to pay
In view of its good economic management and relatively
modest debt burden, Kenya is creditworthy for Bank
lending, but a substantial part of future borrowing
should continue to be on concessionary terms.
(d) Access to alternative sources of finance
Kenya's need for external financial assistance will
increase dramatically in the medium term. The Government
has, therefore, intensified its efforts to obtain financial
support on concessionary terms. While numerous donors have
been active in Kenya for many years, their support has not
increased appreciably.
East African Community
14.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up institutions,
policies, and procedures for operating the common market and the large infra-
structure services, and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been
followed, however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the
distribution of net benefits derived from the Community. The infrastructure
services were hampered by restrictive tariff policies; services declined, and
Partner States subventions were required for the Railways from time to time to
keep the services running. The poor performance of the common services in
transport and communications also impaired trade and general movement of goods
within the countries, affecting the general economic development program.
These difficulties were aggravated by the severe budgetary and balance of pay-
ments constraints faced by all three Partner States in the past few years. As
a consequence, there has been a continuous diminution in the authority of the
Community institutions and in the effectiveness of accountability procedures.
Failure to agree on arrangements for transfer of funds between the Regional



Offices and the service Headquarters have often paralyzed the operation of the
Headquarters, affected their morale and on a number of occasions led to delays
in meeting their external obligations.
15.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental political
and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community that a
review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed for this
purpose in November 1975 but adjourned sine die in November 1976 without being
able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future structure of the EAC.
Meanwhile, although no dejure action has been taken, further deterioration in
Community relationships has led to a further dismantling of the Corporations.
The Railway Headquarters has in effect been disbanded and the nationals working
in the Headquarters have joined their respective Regional Offices. Recently,
the East African Airways Corporation (EAA) collapsed in part due to the lack of
effective mechanism for interstate transfer of funds. The Headquarters of the
East African Harbours has existed in name only for at least a year with the
ports authorities in Mombasa and Dar es Salaam functioning autonomously. The
East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has so far functioned with
a semblance of Headquarters responsibilities but is now fast delegating its
headquarters functions to its regional offices. The respective regional branches
provide the services and domestic development programs in this sector are not
likely to be impaired. Despite these difficulties the proceeds of the various
current Bank loans are being effectively used for approval and priority purposes.
16.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet debt service
obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last year for about a month.
Except for a second line of credit to the EADB in March 1976, the other corpo-
rations have received no new loans from the Bank since 1973. The Bank has
continued to disburse on its 5 ongoing loans to the Corporations and as of
February 28, 1977, $40.8 million remain to be disbursed. In addition, the Bank
has provided assistance in the preparation of Railways, Harbours and Telecommu-
nications development projects. However, in the light of the decentralization
of the service corporations, the Bank is reviewing its ability to assist with
urgently needed future investments. Bank staff have over the past year or so
been providing whatever assistance has been requested by the Partner States and
by the Review Commission. The Bank has also made it known to the Partner States
that further assistance for moving in an orderly manner to new institutional
arrangements would be made available should this be requested.
PART II - BANK GROUP'S OPERATIONS IN KENYA
17.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 22 Bank loans and 20 IDA credits amounting
to $363.9 million and $159.7 million, respectively, supporting 37 operations.
In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling $244.8
million which have been extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecommunications and finance for industry), operated regionally for the
three Partner States of the East African Community. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and East African Corporations,
a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.



18.       The Bank has been engaged in a comprehensive policy dialogue designed
to encourage and assist the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy
initiated some two years ago. In connection with loan and credit negotiations,
the Government has taken a number of steps to implement its Restructuring
Program. On the institutional side, the planning and Implementation capacity of
the Ministry of Agriculture has been strengthened, the Corrton Board has been
re-organized, a Land Use Committee has been set up and the National Committee on
Educational Objectives and Priorities, established in connection with the Third
Education Project, has now completed its work. However, progress in shifting
the focus of the Government's industrial policies from improt-substitution to
domestic resource-based production capable of competing in export markets is a
slow process and the Bank will continue the policy dialogue in this area.
19.       Significant progress has also been made in restructuring the Bank's
lending program towards the directly productive sectors, in giving it a rural
focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distribution objectives.
The approval in July 1976, of the first Integrated Agricultural Development
Project (IADP), which is aimed directly at small and subsistence farmers, opened
a new phase in the Bank's strategy. As an integral part of Kenyan agricultural
strategy, an Irrigation Project will be ready for Board presentation this year.
The Rural Access Roads Project, approved at the same time as the IADP, is
financing labor-intensive infrastructural developments. During this fiscal year
the Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya for the first time -- an
effort which is intended to help Kenya further exploit its considerable foreign
exchange earning potential. The industrial lending program is now also progress-
ing well. A small-scale industry project, prepared with substantial Bank staff
assistance, has been appraised and identification of a large-scale industrial
project is now under way. Assistance is also being given in the preparation of
high priority infrastructural projects, among which are the Nairobi Water Supply
Extension and the Rural Water Supply Project and for additional housing in
Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu through the upgrading and sites and services approach.
20.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.   One major
exception is the Second Livestock Project which is suffering from inadequate
producer prices as well as some organizational difficulties reflecting in part
the complexity of the project. The Nairobi Airport Project has experienced major
cost overruns which were largely beyond the control of the Government.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
21.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies in Kenya:
Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties Ltd.; Tourism Promotion
Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit line for
medium and small-scale industries was extended to the Commercial Bank of Kenya.
As of February 28, 1977, IFC held for its own-account $25.9 million comprising
$18.4 million of loans and $7.5 million of equity.



- 8 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
22.       Agriculture remains the most important sector of Kenya's economy.   It
provides the livelihood of some 11 million people (over 90% of the total
population), generates over 20% of foreign exchange earnings and comprises over
30% of QDP. The average annual per capita income of those living in rural areas
is estimated at far below the country-wide average ($220 in 1975), probably
around $70.
23.       At the time of Independence, agricultural production in Kenya was
dominated by large-scale holdings operated mainly by Europeans. Government em-
phasis was on the development of large-scale farmers. Since then, a two-pronged
approach has been adopted which placed greater concentration on small-scale
farmers to maintain production especially for exports. Today there are some 1.2
million farmholdings with an area of 20 hectares or less; 50% of these holdings
are less than 2 hectares each. The majority of the holdings are farmed by their
owners, many of whom are women. About 20% of these smallholdings are commercial
farmers; 20% in the transitional stages from subsistence to commercial farming
and the remaining 60% are subsistence farms.
24.       Subsistence produce, consumed directly by farmers and their families,
makes up over 50% of total agricultural output. Maize is the major subsistence
crop, although it is produced on a commercial basis as well. Other subsistence
crops include millet, cassava, potatoes, plantains and bananas. Commercial
production for export focuses on coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum and wattle.
However, cashewnuts, pineapples, castor beans, coconuts and wool are becoming
increasingly important. Wheat, rice, sugar and cotton are produced largely as
cash crops, but are almost totally consumed within the country. While meat
and dairy products continue to be significant in subsistence agriculture, a
growing proportion of the livestock produced is marketed domestically or exported.
25.       Agricultural development is controlled by an elaborate network of
government organizations and semi-public bodies. The Ministry of Agriculture is
primarily concerned with setting overall policy including pricing policy, and
providing general support services (such as research, extension and training).
It also exercises control over a wide range of specialized production and
marketing boards and agencies. Other ministries, including Lands and Settlement,
Cooperatives and Social Services, Tourism and Wildlife, Natural Resources and
Works, are responsible for other services in the agricultural sector.
Agricultural Development Strategy
26.       Impressive progress has been made over the past decade especially in
the introduction of cash crops into the smallholder sector. Some 500,000 out of
the 1.2 million smallholders can now be characterized as relatively progressive
farmers. However, while growing at 4.3% a year in real terms, agriculture is
falling behind other sectors. Agricultural development needs to be accelerated
to help alleviate three particularly sensitive and critical problems: poverty,
unemployment and a deteriorating balance of payments. The average rural income
has been estimated as being about $70 per head and, even within the rural sector,
wide variations exist. Despite the progress in the past few years the majority



- 9 -
of rural dwellers live at subsistence levels, and have limited access to health
care and education. Rapid population growth exacerbates the problem. The labor
force is increasing beyond Kenya's ability to absorb it; migration to Nairobi
and other large towns is accelerating, and the cost of providing basic social
services is growing at alarming rates. Finally, recent adverse trends in world
markets, coupled with the increased cost of oil and fertilizers, have raised the
cost of imported farm inputs and reduced profitability. In light of this
situation, the development of the small-farm sector would contribute towards
increasing agricultural production and employment opportunities.
27.       The Government has adopted a three-pronged approach to improve
smallholder production. First, it is establishing adequate production incen-
tives through higher produce prices. Second, it is attempting to strengthen the
support institutions such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of
Cooperative Development and several marketing boards which are weak. Finally,
it is improving basic infrastructure in rural areas such as water supplies,
rural roads and health facilities to eventually reduce the gap in services
between rural and urban areas.
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
28.       Agricultural credit in Kenya is available through several institutions.
The commercial banks generally provide working capital and development credit
mainly for medium or large-scale farmers. Other credit institutions are the
cooperative banks which provide development and seasonal loans to their members;
parastatal organizations (crop or produce boards) which provide seasonal or
medium-term loans mainly for the development of cash crops; the Kenya Farmers
Association, Settlement Fund and Kenya Breweries which provide suppliers'
credits; and the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
29.       AFC was established in 1963 to assist in the development of agriculture
and related industries, and it is now the main channel for credit to small and
medium-scale farmers. It extends credit under three large-scale schemes
including the land purchase and development loans financed under the British Land
Transfer Program; ranching loans funded by USAID, Sweden and IDA; and large farm
development by the Federal Republic of Germany. AFC also operates its own small
and large-scale lending schemes and acts as an agent for the Guaranteed Minimum
Return (GMR) Program providing seasonal credit to growers with more than six
hectares under wheat and hybrid maize as well as insurance against crop failures.
30.       The bulk of AFC's financial resources is provided by the Government in
the form of irredeemable or ownership capital, part of which is interest-bearing
while the remainder is made up of interest-free grants and long-term debts.
Interest-bearing capital is lent by the Government at interest rates ranging from
1% to 6% per annum. For fiscal year 1976, the blend of interest payable averaged
3.4% on total resources including interest-free grants. Since 1969 AFC has made
loans totalling US$31.0 million, and has charged interest of 7.5% on land pur-
chase loans and 8% on all others. AFC's standard rate on new loans was increased
to 9% in the last quarter of 1974. Interest receivable in FY1976 averaged about
7.1% on the total portfolio, giving AFC a spread of 3.7%. This margin has thus
far proved insufficient to cover AFC's operating expenses, and the AFC has
operated at a loss in most years since 1969; the unaudited figures for FY1976
indicate that it has just managed to break even.



- 10 -
31.       AFC has made considerable progress in its development as an agricultural
credit institution. There are, however, problem areas which still require further
improvement. First, there is the need to create sufficient reserves so as to
attain a degree of financial autonomy. Second, there is the need to develop its
loan and credit appraisal system so as to enable it to fully assess a farmer's
total creditworthiness instead of relying mainly on land and collateral security
as is now the case. Third, AFC needs to improve its operating capacity by
streamlining loan processing procedures so as to minimize the time lag between
loan application and approval. AFC also has had difficulties in recruitment and
retention of high level staff.
Performance of AFC Under Two Previous Projects
32.       An IDA credit of US$3.6 million for the First Smallholder Agricultural
Credit Project was approved in May 1967, and was designed to provide medium-term
loans to some 8,000 smallholders in 18 of Kenya's 41 districts. The districts
selected for credit were those considered to have high agricultural potential.
The majority of funds under the project were earmarked for on-farm development,
with the remainder of the proceeds going for dairying and crop production. The
implementation of the first credit encountered several major problems. Firstly,
AFC lacked experience in handling smallholder loans and its inability to appraise
complex farm plans became a major constraint in its loan procedures which re-
sulted in long delays in the preparation of farm budgets, investment plans and
disbursement. Secondly, there were delays in the Government's land registration
program and this prevented potential borrowers from using AFC's credit facilities
since it required title deeds for security.l/
33.       Although the original plan had projected about 11,000 hectares in crops,
actual performance was considerably less. This was largely due to an attractive
price structure in favor of milk which brought higher return for milk than was
anticipated at appraisal resulting in many more loans being extended for dairy
cows than for seasonal crops. Another benefit from the project was that the
Land and Farm Management Division (LFMD) of the MOA, which was responsible to
assisting in farm planning and budgeting for the borrowers, improved its under-
standing and expertise during the course of the project and was in a better
position to supply better extension services for subsequent programs.
34.       The second IDA credit for US$6.0 million to help finance the Second
Smallholders' Agricultural Credit Project was approved in November 1972 and pro-
vided continued support to AFC's lending operations which extended to 22 districts.
The project had benefited from experiences under the first credit and AFC improved
its loan processing by decentralization of the loan approved procedures, i.e.,
Branch Managers could approve loans up to KShlO,000. This cut the processing
period from four to two months. However, AFC did not develop a more comprehen-
sive appraisal system and still relied largely on security rather than farm
development potential for granting its loans to smallholders. At the same time,
the experience of the LFMD contributed to the improvement of the quality of their
services. The distribution of loans proceeded as had been planned during
appraisal with 75% of the loans going for dairying; 9% for crops; 13% for farm
1/ For full details of these and related problems please refer to para. 8.1 of
the Project Performance Audit Report: Kenya's First Smallholder Agricultural
Credit Project (Credit 105-KE), No.   SecM75-589 of August 8, 1975.



- 11 
machinery and 8% for poultry. Total project commitments were higher than the
credit proceeds because of additional allocation of funds from the Treasury.
Despite improvement of training for both extension workers and LFMD staff under
the second credit project, smallholder farmers still experienced difficulties in
obtaining adequate agricultural inputs (fertilizers, pesticides and improved
seeds) in some areas owing to transport and fuel shortages.
35.       By full implementation of both the First and Second Smallholders Credit
Projects,AFC had approved some 22,000 loans for smallholder farmers, averaging
between KSh3,000 to 7,000 each. These credits have made significant socio-
economic impact on Kenya. The two agricultural credit projects have demonstrated
that there is need to continue to strengthen the institutional capacity of AFC
so as to improve its loan processing and to develop its ability to appraise
projects. It also became obvious that better extension services and adequate
delivery systems for agricultural inputs were necessary if smallholder farmers
were to obtain the full benefits of production credit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project would be the third one for the agricultural
credit operations in Kenya (see paras. 32-35). This project is in line with the
Government's overall development strategy and its Restructuring Program (paras.
8-11) and the Bank Group's lending policy to Kenya (para. 18); and aims at
assisting in the realization of the Government's agricultural development program.
The project provides substantial support for small-scale farming units but in
recognition of the fact that medium-scale farmers have an important role to play
in achieving the Government's agricultural growth targets, a medium-scale com-
ponent is included. An appraisal mission visited Kenya in June 1976 and its
report entitled "Kenya -- Appraisal of the Third Agricultural Credit Project"
(Report No. 1342-KE), dated March 2, 1977, is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, in January 1977.
The Kenyan delegation was led by Mr. Simon Gathiuni, Permanent Secretary in the
Ministry of Agriculture. A project, loan and credit summary is given in
Annex III.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project would help finance AFC's ongoing lending program
to small-scale farmers and expansion of its operations from 22 to 28 districts
over a three-year period (FY77/78-FY79-80), with a portion of the credit for
medium-scale wheat and maize farmers. Specifically the project provides:
(a) for smallholder farmers:
(i)    seasonal credit for crop production;
(ii)   medium-term credit for farm development; and
(iii) medium-term credit for oxen, farm machinery
and equipment;



- 12 -
(b) for medium-scale commercial farms:
(i)    seasonal credit for crop production;
(ii)   medium-term credit for farm development; and
(iii) medium-term credit for farm machinery and
equipment;
(c) medium-term credit for input suppliers to ensure the
availability of adequate stocks in rural areas;
(d) technical assistance and staff support for the Ministry
of Agriculture and AFC including establishment of an
evaluation and monitoring unit.
Credit for Smallholder Farmers
38.       The proposed project would finance AFC's seasonal and medium-term
credit to relatively more sophisticated and commercially oriented smallholders
with farm size under 20 hectares and showing a good potential for increasing
production. Although the farm size may appear large, much of the land outside
the high potential areas, is arid or marginal and is consequently under-
cultivated. Furthermore, according to Government statistics, most of the
smallholder farmers have less than 2 hectares each (para. 23).
Credit to Medium-Size Commercial Farmers
39.       While the major thrust of the credit project is to support the small
farmers, there is need to maintain the Government's agricultural growth targets
through operations on a larger scale. The proposed project would therefore
include a component aimed specifically at assisting medium-scale farms with
farms ranging in size from 20 to 400 hectares. Although the majority of these
farms are generally located in high potential agricultural land in the Rift
Valley, Western, South Nyanza and Central provinces, in certain instances most
of these holdings include large parcels which are essentially marginal land.
Most of these farms were purchased by Kenyan nationals from European owners
through long-term loans from AFC secured by a mortgage on the land. This
category of farms deserves support because they are generally well-managed but
seriously under-capitalized, and have good potentials for growth, provided
development and seasonal credit is made available to them. Some loans to
medium-scale farmers would therefore be approved over the three-year period for
financing crops, farm machinery, livestock, water supply and seasonal inputs.
Input Suppliers
40.       One of the most important considerations in the implementation of
smallholder credit operations is the ability to ensure a timely supply of inputs
and feedstuffs. As indicated earlier, farmers in the more remote regions have
experienced difficulties in obtaining inputs creating a serious constraint to
agricultural production (see para. 34). With the expansion of AFC's operations
(from 22 districts under the second credit to 28 districts) it is expected that
shortages of inputs in remote areas will continue to be a problem. Therefore,
an amount of KShl4.3 million will be made available to suppliers (stockists)
under the proposed credit through AFC, to enable them to carry adequate supplies
of inputs and feedstuffs.



- 13 -
Technical Assistance
41.       AFC's attitude in extending credit has been largely security-oriented,
governed by the availability of sufficient security to cover the loan. In
general AFC lends against mortgages on land and, in certain instances charges
against movable property. AFC's staff, therefore, generally lack practical
training in the technical evaluation of credit applications, and this deficiency
has hampered it from evolving into the development institution it was originally
intended to be. To overcome this weakness, under the project, an Appraisal
Department would be established within AFC. The project provides for recruit-
ment of a qualified agricultural credit specialist experienced in appraisal of
agricultural loans to serve as a training advisor to the new department. The
credit specialist would train and assist local staff in the evaluation of loan
applications for the medium-scale farm credit channel of the project. This
service would be confined to medium-scale farmers because for smallholder farmers
the cost of each individual loan would generally be too small to warrant the
high cost of appraisal. In such cases, the extension staff of LFMD provided
under the project would generally undertake the required loan appraisal. This
exercise would be used as a pilot project to strengthen AFC's appraisal techniques
and it is hoped that once the department is fully developed, it would extend its
services to smallholder farmers. As a condition for disbursement of the medium-
scale farm credit component, it has been agreed that AFC shall employ a Senior
Credit Specialist for the proposed Appraisal Department (Section 2.02(b) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Staff Support to MOA and AFC
42.       The proposed project would provide additional local staff for MOA to
augment the existing extension workers and training officers. The staff would
include a Project Coordinator, 12 Agricultural Officers, 8 Technical Officers,
4 Mechanization Officers, 20 Technical Assistants and 3 Secretarial Staff. The
Government has advised that the head of LFMD has been appointed Project
Coordinator to be responsible for ensuring full coordination between LFMD's
extension staff charged with the preparation of farm budgets, and the AFC staff
who will evaluate the farm budgets in the context of the farmers' credit applica-
tions (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       AFC's salary levels are somewhat above the Government salary scales
but below its competitors in the private sector, especially the commercial banks.
Consequently there is a high rate of staff turnover, especially in the medium
and higher level categories. It was therefore agreed that AFC's salary struc-
ture would be revised and reviewed by December 1977 in order to attract and retain
high calibre staff (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement). To augment the
existing staff resources, the proposed project also provides for additional staff
to AFC which would include 33 loan officers and 33 clerical staff to strengthen
the existing staff resources and to handle the additional loan burden as a result
of expansion of AFC's activities to 28 districts.
Project Implementation
44.       The implementation of the proposed project would be the responsibility
of AFC with assistance from LFMD in the Ministry of Agriculture. LFMD would be
responsible for providing agricultural extension services to farmer borrowers,



- 14 -
would prepare farm plans, loan applications, and would provide the guidance and
supervision of borrowers. The Deputy Director, in the Department of Agriculture
will be responsible for the planning and implementation of all extension
activities. LFMD needs strengthening through staff training so as to provide
the needed field supervision which is provided for under this project (para. 42).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
45.       The two previous agricultural credit projects had no systematic
procedures for monitoring and evaluation. They relied on incidental reporting
carried out in individual districts and an analysis of AFC's records. The
Government is now placing greater emphasis on a comprehensive national system
for project monitoring and evaluation. As part of this system, the proposed
project would help to establish a Project Evaluation Unit in the Economic Plan-
ning Division of MOA. Additional staff required would include 6 Senior
Statistical Officers, 18 Investigators, 6 drivers, 2 clerical staff, and
consultants. This unit will operate in close cooperation with the Central
Bureau of Statistics which will be responsible for data collection for the pro-
posed project, the Rural Access Roads Project and the Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (the latter two also being financed by the Bank Group).
The Government has agreed to prepare a detailed program for monitoring and
evaluation by June 1, 1977 (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total project is estimated to cost about US$40.0 million, of which
US$20.5 million or 51% represents foreign exchange requirements. Base costs
have been estimated at prices prevailing as of December 1976. Price contingen-
cies have been calculated at 8% per annum for the three years, 1977 through 1979,
for both local and foreign currency costs. Except for taxes on salaries and
fuel, which are not significant, project costs do not include any taxes or
duties. The project costs (excluding contingencies) include loans to smallholder
farmers (for crop development, livestock and farm machinery) amounting to US$19.8
million or 50% of the total project; to medium-scale farmers US$10.6 million or
26%; to input suppliers US$1.7 million or 4%; and technical assistance and staff
support US$2.0 million or 5%. The proposed IDA credit of US$20 million and Bank
loan of US$5 million would finance 63% of the total project costs net of taxes
and duties including $4.5 million of local costs. This financing of the local
costs would be justified for reasons explained in paragraph 12. A detailed esti-
mate of project costs is described in Annex III.
Relending Terms
47.       The Government would provide the proceeds of the IDA credit and Bank
loan relating to the lending program (US$23.5 million) to AFC at an annual
interest not exceeding 5% (Schedule 4(2) and 4(6) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). These funds would not be repayable to the Government, but would be
used by AFC to establish a revolving fund to finance AFC's farm development
lending to both smallholder and medium-scale commercial farmers. Any repayments
from outstanding smallholder loans would in turn be relent specifically to small-
holder farmers. The Government undertook to replenish the fund to the level



- 15 -
established under the project if for any reason outside AFC's control the fund
should be drawn down. Funds for technical assistance (US$1.5 million) would be
given to AFC as a grant.
48.       In the past, AFC charged an interest rate of 10% per annum for all its
seasonal credit to both smallholder and medium-scale farmers and an interest rate
of 9% per annum for all its medium-term loans. It has now been agreed that all
seasonal credit for smallholder and medium-scale farmers would be extended for a
period of one year at an interest rate of 11% per annum and all medium-term loans
to smallholder and medium-scale farmers would be extended for five years at an
interest rate of 10% per annum (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
49.       The criteria for on-lending to smallholder farmers are;   that total
landholding does not exceed 20 hectares; that there is evidence of ability to
achieve production targets satisfactory to AFC; that the farmer submits a realis-
tic farm budget; that he is creditworthy; and that the farmer did not receive a
loan under the Integrated Agricultural Development Project. Each farmer shall
also be required to make a contribution of 20% towards the total cost of invest-
ment but his own labor and that of his family would be counted as part of his
contribution to such investment. The application and screening procedure for
crop loans would follow the established AFC practice. However, instead of
processing applications each year, AFC would extend a line of credit to cover
the farmers' estimated seasonal input requirements for a two or three-year
period. AFC also intends to raise the limit of loans that can be approved by
its Branch Managers from KSh1O,000 to KShl5,000 in order to further improve the
loan processing procedures.
50.       For medium-scale farmers, an aggregate loan of KShl5O,000 would be made
available to any one farmer in any one year. Each farmer would be required to
make a contribution of 25% of the total investment. Loans to medium-scale
farmers would be limited to those with holdings of at least 20 hectares but not
exceeding 400 hectares. In addition to submission of a realistic cash flow
projection and creditworthiness considerations, a borrower in this category would
be required to demonstrate that he was unable to obtain financing from other
sources on reasonable terms before a loan is granted to him. He has also to
demonstrate the ability to manage and operate a farm in accordance with sound
agricultural practices.
51.       Loans to input suppliers would be extended for a period of three years
at an interest rate of not less than 10% per annum. Such loans would be secured
by lien against the supplier's stock and the amount of the loan outstanding to
any retail supplier at any time would not exceed KSh5O,000 (Part C of the draft
Project Agreement).
Procurement
52.       As is customary with agricultural credit projects of this type,
procurement under the proposed project would consist of a variety of items in
relatively small quantities which would neither be suitable for bulk procure-
ment nor attract normal international competitive bidding. However, there is
adequate competition, both international and national, in the normal supply
channels which buyers would use. Major producers of farm machinery and ferti-
lizers are represented in Kenya; sales and after sale services are adequate



- 16 -
and there are satisfactory supplies at competitive prices. Adequate supplies of
seeds and dairy (grade) cows are available from local sources. Procurement of
such items would therefore be through normal commercial channels. Vehicles for
LFMD and AFC to be financed out of the proceeds of the IDA credit and the Bank
loan would be procured in accordance with the borrower's normal procurement
procedures (Section 2.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
53.       Disbursement of funds from the IDA credit and the Bank loan would be
made against appropriate statements of disbursements by AFC for: 79% of the
amount disbursed under short and medium-term subloans; and 100% of foreign and
63% of total expenditures for technical assistance.
54.       The Second Smallholder Agricultural Credit was fully disbursed as of
December 31, 1976. Since there is need to ensure continuity of AFC's agricul-
tural lending program and to enable farmers to obtain seasonal inputs well in
advance of the planting period, it was agreed that retroactive financing would
be provided up to an amount of US$1.5 million for disbursements made to small-
holder and medium-scale farmers, effective from January 1, 1977, relating to
categories (1) and (2) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement. The
IDA credit would be disbursed first.
Accounts and Audits
55.       Due to technical delays and some initial problems, fully computerized
accounts and billing systems, which were originally planned for installation by
the end of 1974, were expected to be available by the end of 1976. The accounts
are presently audited by the Nairobi Office of Coopers and Lybrand. Assurances
have been received that AFC would continue to appoint independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and the Bank and that the audited accounts together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA and the Bank within six months of the
end of the fiscal year (Section 4.02(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Justification
56.       The proposed project would finance an additional three years of AFC's
ongoing lending program; it would provide credit for some 18,000 smallholder
farmers, as well as for about 500 medium-scale farmers who would not otherwise
be able to obtain finance on reasonable terms. The credit would allow these
farmers to increase total production and incomes through a more intensive use
of their land with the proper use of selected seeds, fertilizers and pesticides;
it would also provide support for the development of dairy enterprises, pig and
poultry units and for the purchase of farm machinery. Technical assistance pro-
vided under the project would substantially strengthen the ability of AFC to
design and implement a viable credit program; it is expected that with the
establishment of the Appraisal Department within AFC, the institution would
develop the ability to evaluate individual farm plans and would begin to evolve
into the development institution it was originally intended to be.
57.       The major quantifiable benefits arising from the project would be
increased production of maize (35,000 tons), wheat (10,000 tons), potatoes
(8,000 tons), rapeseed (6,000 tons), beans (2,000 tons), milk (39 litres) and
eggs (12 million). There would also be small increases in output of cotton,



- 17 -
pyrethrum, beef, poultry and bacon. For both smallholders and medium-scale
farmers incremental farm income attributable to the project would be substantial;
smallholder incomes would more than double while medium-scale farms would show
an average increase of slightly over 100% for both wheat and maize.
58.       The overall economic rate of return for the project over 20 years would
be 37%. This relatively high rate of return can be attributed in part to the
fact that those farmers who would participate in the project are commercially
oriented farmers who, given access to an assured source of credit, would be able
to achieve substantial increases in production. In arriving at this rate of
return, the foreign exchange costs (including technical assistance) and benefits
were "shadow-priced" to reflect adequately the value of foreign exchange to
Kenya. It was assumed that cotton and pyrethrum would be exported, and that
wheat, rapeseed and sunflower would represent import substitutes. The net for-
eign exchange effect resulting therefrom would be negative in the early years,
but would eventually result in a modest savings to the economy. All labor costs
were valued at the prevailing wage rates which were assumed to reflect the
economic costs of this type of semi-skilled labor. Projected 1981 international
prices for maize, wheat and rapeseed were used while current local prices were
used for all other commodities.
Risks
59.       Apart from risks associated with weather conditions (e.g. drought) the
proposed project has normal risks associated with a credit scheme of this nature.
AFC has gained considerable experience under the two previous credits in handling
loans to smallholder farmers (paras. 32-35) and all its loans are secured by
mortgage. In addition, the establishment of an Appraisal Department in AFC
(para. 41) would also improve AFC's handling of loans to medium-scale farmers.
Therefore, there appears to be no undue risks attached to the implementation of
this project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
60.       The draft Development Credit and Loan Agreements between the Republic
of Kenya and the Association and the Bank, a draft Project Agreement between the
Association, the Bank and AFC, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the draft Resolutions approving the pro-
posed credit and loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Conditions of effectiveness include provision of evidence of the due
authorization or ratification of the Project Agreement and Subsidiary Financing
Agreement. A condition of disbursement of credit proceeds for lending to medium-
sized farms would be the appointment of a Senior Credit Specialist in AFC's
Appraisal Department (para. 41). Special features of the draft Development
Credit, Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in Section III of Annex IV.



- 18 -
62.       I am satisfied that the prqposed Development Credit and Loan Agreement
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the Bank and
with the established criteria for Third Window Loans.
PART VI - RECaOMENDATIONS
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit
and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 16, 1977



AJNNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page;~ of 47 Pages'
KENYA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                    ----------------------                         -----
---------------                       ~~~~~KENYA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       582.6                                          MOST RECENT
AaREc.     .                              1960       19yo    ESTIMATE           TANZANIA        KOREA, RtEp. OF  _MAURITIUS *
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                          80.0      1.0          220.0                 2.         210. 0      350.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)                8.3         11.2       -13.3                12 .9 /a     31. 4        (.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                           14.0        19.0         23.0                14.0        319.0       408.0
PER SQUARE KM. AGREC. LAND              14~8.0                                        23.0       1320.0       729.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            4~8.5       4*9.0        4~8.7              -50.5         35.0        35.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND            19.8         12.0        16.0                23.0         11 .4        8.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/IHOU)              .         55.0/          .                160 .OAb                  58.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)           42.5        b7.5         50.0               41i.8         57.7        63.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    .          3.4          3.4                 3.2          2.6         2.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                     3. 0        1.1          3.5                 3 .0LZ'      2.3         2.4
URBAN                                     5.8          6.5         6.1                 5.6          6.L        Ib.9
URBAN POPULATION (1 OF TOTAL)                7.3         9.9         11.3                 6.0         L1i.2      44.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                           46.0 LSbk.  48.4           .                 44.4        42.1         41.9
15 TO 64 TEARS                           49.2 4/a.b,  8C53.                                         46         5
65 YEARS AND OVER                         4.8a/!-a-   3.6                              2. 60        3.          3.6
AGE DEPENDENCT RATIO                        1.0          1.1          .                  0.9 b        0.8          0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.3 A   -    1.1 /b                         I1.2LA k      1.4          1.   aL
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                          66.1       246.6
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                  ...                                          .li0
EMPLOYMRENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)             3300.0      51000 0      5 40 0.0 /a         5600.:0 La.bl0400.0       250.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Zl                .         9 0.O       8 6.o 7w             910r -.     50~.5 /,     3 0.
UNEMPLOYED (Z OF LABOR FORCE)                 ...                                           .         5.0.        17.00
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME RECID BY-
HIGHEST 5% 0F HIIMSH0LDS                   ..20.QA                  .                   351.
HIMOIT 20% OF H80alOLDS                    ..         52.6/d        ..63.3                         44I.5
LWES~T 20% OF HOUSREHOLS                                .9 d2. 3                                    7.1
LgOdT 140% OF HOIAHOM.S.                              1 1:7         ..                   .8        17.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSWIP
I OWNED BY TOP 102 OF OWNERS                  ...                                          .         28. 0
1 OWNED BY SMALLEST 10Z OWNERS                ...                                           .         2. 0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                11 0o0.0 Laa7~  P830.00    5800.0 4b~        21510.0a      2210.0 /    4090.
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            16,10.0   dI~ 410.0      1300.0        4      8a490.0 LA.  7800        800.00
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               810.0 /a    810. 0       760.0 A.            To00.0 /    1920.0       25 0.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF 
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)            103.0       101.0        102.0 L7 3.0                     103.0       104.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  75.0        71.01        67.0 L.41.0                      65.0        50.0
-0F WHICH ANIMAL AND PUJLSE           32.0        29.0           .                 2 3.0        19.0         19.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                  .             .
EDU CAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          -17.0/A       614.0/      714 036.0a/                     10 4.0        79.0 /c
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         -2.0OZ       9.0         11.00                3.0         41.0         35.0 Le,
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 13.0        13.0         13.0                13.0         12.0        14.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(2 OF SECONDARY)                         12.0 L       Z .0 L       2.0 If              10.0 Ld     16.0o        1.0 A.
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                      .          30.0        140.0                  .          87.0
HOUS ING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)25                                                                           -
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                  25L                        ..                              .
PIPED WATER (7)M                                        ..                            30.o /4.ce   800L
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITYao                                                                                     d
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                       ...                       .                   .0.o
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                          ...                                          .         30.0
CON SUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              9.0         48.0        41.0                 11.0       126.0        102.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)               8.0          9.0         9.0                  3.0         2.0         35.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)               50.0         68.0        86.0                 31.0 Li     307.0       211.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   0.4          0.5         0.6                  0.1         3.4          0.7
--   - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  -- - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4 Pages
NOTES
Onlena otherwiac noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 sad 1961, for 1970 betwee 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recen.t Ratia.te between
19 73 and 1975.
flMariia    has been seetote   as anianpso          predominan.tly agiclorl          -cey, difob is following nois enlIghtened policies d-oigoed to diversify
Mprodotion and pr-otoc   acoelerated indaniisliatio.
KENYA                 1960    Ia  1962;    /b  Baaod on caplete eeuseration of non-African population and of schan African popolatlon, ad on a10 peroen.t
_____        ____     __  sma~.pie ortraI African P po   aion aged 0-14, 15-59, and 60 years and over, respeotively;         /0Rai      of Popsitionsne
15  ed 60 and ov,er to total lao     ore       d  Registered, not all practicing in the cosotry; narsing personnel le-lden
aidwive   and assistant oidwi-e       In  5-Il yearn of oge;     If  Total secondary inclodee teacher training at the tbird
1970    Ia   Registered only;    lb  Ratio of population nader 15 ond 65 and ovr to labor force age 15-59 yearn;           /.  Labor force
age 15-59 years;     7d  Urban;    In  Registered, not all practicing in the country,       If  5-11 years of age;     jj  Total
necondary focl.dno teac.her troining at the third level.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      Ia  1971;    lb  1972;    Ic  Registere.d, not all practicing in the coutry,       Id   1969-71 overage,    In  5-li
yearnsof age;     /f  Total secondary inclodee teac.her training at the third level.
TANZANIA              197i0   I   Mailansd Tane.. sni     b  1997;    Ic gHanholdo,       /d  1905;   Io   Urban only;    If  7-13 and 14-19.yyeara of age renpecti-ely.
KOREiA, REP. OF      1L970    /   As Percen.tage of amPIloynot;     lb  Rogiotored,    Ic  Regiotered, not all practicing in toe coutry,        Id   Waror piped insido.
MAURITIUS             1970     I  Ratio of population ondor 15 sod 65 and ovr to toto1 labor force,          lb  cocloding teac.her training;     Ic  5-12 sod
13-18 yeasr of age respectively.
R9, August 19, 1976
PE  -TOIO  SOCIA  IDICATORS
Land Area ithn   kea                                                                       Pen.lat;ion oar norning cocoon - Population divided by nober of practicing
Tctal -Tots1 surface area comprising land area and inlan,d watern.                            nae   nd fe,nale gradnate curses, "trained" or "certifled" nuns,od
Agtic. -MLS recen t esti-ote of sgi                rearo  o  used tenporsily or per-          suml ia ry pernenel with teaing. or enpericoce.
aenl   fCr ops, pastures,     arket A kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.               Pop.o1ation pear hospital bed - Population divided by omeher of hospital
GSP pe   capit  (US11 -GNPP per capita entinates at r-uret macbt prices,                       beds available in public and privote general1 and epecialfoed hospital
ca.lculted by na"    ronv-rnion nethod anWorld Bash Atlas (1973-75 basio);                  and rehabilitstion centern, earlude     nursing home   and entablislssetr
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                   for custodIal aed prevntive carp.
Per ospits sunelpjy of.ralorie  ft of reurnet)          -Cnpted icon
Popolstion and vital rsatistics                                                                ..ergy eqialet ofnt food spplies avaslahle in country per
Population m.id-yr    million) - As of   .ly first:   If not a-ailble, -u-rge                 o-pit. per day, ovailahle supplies comprise donoatic production, inports
of two s-d-yea   eutinains, 1960,I1971 and 1975 data.                                       less noports, sod changes in stock, cot supp lies oclude animal feed,
needa, quantities used in food processing and losses in dintribution;
Popult1.rion densitty - per snusre  e   Mid-year population per square kilo-                  reqoiroments were es tiasted by FAO hased on physiolagiral ...ede for
mtr(100 b     ...rn) of total ara.-oIa activity and health considering envirometal tomperture, hody
Population d...sity - ear usoee           gfari-  lard - Conpoted as above for                weights , age sod gnu dintribstions of population, and allowing 10% for
agricultural land only.                                                                     us:tpeiat household leve.
Pr tcait    upely of Protei   igrano Per day) - Peotnia content of per
VItal statistics                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~caPita net supply of food per day, net supply of food is defined so
trade b    irh rate e  thousand - Annua   lice births per thousand of aid-year                above; require.mets for all courtries established by ElDA Economic:
ppltion, te-year arithmetic averages      nding in 1960 and 1970, and fine-              Reseach Sernican provide fr a aiimm allowance of if gra            of total
year avrage endingtis 1975 for nest recet eotinste.                                          protein per day, sod 20 graun of animal and pulse protein, of which
irud  deah rae ee  thousand - Annual1 deacth aper thousan.d of mid-year                  10 gr-am shosd he animal pro.teir ; thene standards are lowr than
pplto;r-yeaa -'tic`eic avrgseding is 1960 sod 1970 and                              those of 71 -ru    of toa.roenad 27 gran           of anima    rtn     a
fiv-year averag    e ding -n 1975 forama ceetetmt,an overage for the world, ProPosed bly FAO in the Third Worpld Fomd
Isfa-t mortality rate 1/thou) - Annualdeaths of infants under one year of                     live..
ag te ho,sd    iu  blrho                                                              e    ait      ci     upelo iron a    Ima  sea ple-protein supply of
Lila  spensno t c it    yu     Aeaesme.o er               flferiaonVud derive                           fro  anmals and-pulses in gramo Per dY.
,t hirth, ..u.ally fi-e-yec avrages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 far                     Death rate (/chaoS ages 1-4 - Annua     deaths per thousan d in age goup 1-4
develping concr ia..                                                                        years, to childron in this ago group, -suggeted an a       indicatorofp
Gross reproductio    rst i-Aceraga oub-r of live daugh ter        woa   will                  malistritlon.
heat io her sc-su    roproductiv- period if sbe esperiencen present age-
op-cific ferctility rates .....aUIy five-year avrgsending in 1960,                        Educa.tion
1970 and 1975 for developing ..o.ntrien .                                                 Adjusted onroloent ratio - primarv school - Escolise-t of all gags as
PoultIn      ro   ch rae (%) - total -   Compoun.d anmal1 growth rates of mid-                percentage of pnlaarY sholaePopulation , includes children aged
yea  poulaionfvr 1951-60. 1960-_70 and 1970-75.                                         6-11 years but adjusted foe different lengths of prlnary education,
Poplatongrothrate (%) - urban     C-Copured like growth rate of total                    for onnatries with univernal education, enralleet may emced 100%
population; different defioftio      of urban areas may affect cMpara-                     since some pupils are below or     wabv  the official school age.
bility of data enmg cnustrie.                                                            Adjusted enrollment rotn       eondr,    shool - Cmputed as shoe;
ran Population (% of ttcal) - Ratio of urban to total populatiee, diffe-                    secondary educa.tion rqire      tlstfe         er     fapoe        rmr
rent defin ition  of urban areas may affect comparability of data      -mog                 intuto,provides ge...rsI,         -utional or teacher training
countries.                                                                                  ins truotion  for pupils of 12 to 17 yearo of age, earrespondence
Me    trutre fpercent) - ch1ildren (0-14 yerar), wanking-age (15-64 yearn),                   cou rses are generally nocluded.
ans  etrd    (65 years and over) as per'nentages of mid-year populatian.                 Yearn of nhool4ng,jrided (first and second 1eyela) - Total years of
Ale dependency.ratLio - Ratio of popula tion    nder 15 and 65 and over to                    schooling, at secondary level, vocatiomal instruotion may be partially
thos  of age   15 through 64.                                                              or compltely ...cluded.
Economic dependency ratio    _-Ratio of population nader 15 and 65 and over                Vocational11enrollment (% of secondary) - Vocational institutinus
to the lsbor fecein sge gopo           5-64 years.                                         include technical, industrial or other prngrse      which operate inde-
Fanily Planning - acc-eptors fo,=sulstive. thou) -C_lati-e musher of                          pendent ly or as dePrnetofscdayisitin.
acceptors of bircth-control devices medor aunpioes of nationsl family                    Adult literary rate     ) - Literate adolts (able to read and write) as
planning progren ainre inception.                                                          percentage of total sdnlt Population aged 1) years and over.
PI_il   pluis-   sr    % of maridwomen) - Percent ages of married
wome   0f child-bearing age (15-44 year)      ho use birth-control devices               HousingAeag                               -.ro     pr-       e  r-J
to all married women in aseu ago group.                                                  PenM.    e    on(vreS-Aeag               obro       esn     e   omi
occupied convntional dwlings in urban areas ; dwellings eaclude non-
Ehoploynentpennntstuctres                                                                                           sod sncuidpra
Total labor farm    (thusad) - Econmically active persona        inluig                      cupe    delig         witou  piPed watrt(    -Oosid       ovntoa
srnd fotrces and unoplnyed but ealuding housewives, students, err.;                        dwe11ingo in urban and -ruralrieas without ins ide or outsIde piped
definitions is varIous countrIes are not conparsble.                                       water fsoilities as peroentuge of all occu.pied dwellings.
L,abor force in scriculture it)- Agricultural1 lbor force (in foning,                      Access to electricity (% of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
forestry, hunting and fishing) as pecentage of total labor force,                          electricity in living qearters an percnt of tatal dwellings in urban
Ujnemloyed 1% of laber for~ce)- lneployed are usally defined an persons                      and rural sreso
who are able end willing to take e job, out of a job on s given day,                     Rural dwellings conneoted to electricity (%) - Computed an above for
re  inaed out of a job, and see king work for a upecified ainf=se period                    mrut1 dwellings only.
nt ....eeding one week; may not be ooparable. between coontries due to
different definitioss of uneomployed and source of data, e.g., omploy-                   consomption
,met office statistios, sample surveYs, cuspulnory usoployment insurance,                Radio reoeivsra (par thou pop) - All types of receivers f or radio broad-
In.-  di.trib.tiM  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~   ~   ~   cats to general public per thousand of populatIon, eacludas unlie..n.nd
Incoe dstriutin -Percentage of private in.oome (both in cash and bind)                  rce.i-era in onntries end in years when registration of radio nets wan
received by richest 5%. richest 20%., poorest 20%,asod pooreat 40% of                      in effect; data for recent yearn may not ha nomparable sinc ..s..r
households,                                                                                no0morina abolished li-enning.
Passenger care (per thou pap) - Pansenger cams comprise motor cars seating
Distribution of land ownership -Percentages of land owed by wealthiest                        les then eight persons; eacluden sabulanoes, hearses sod ailitsry
107. and poorest To% -oflandowers                                                          vehicles,
Health -d N.ttitLm                                                 ~  ~~~~~~~~~~Electricity (kwh/yr par cap) - Annual consption of industrial, canr-
Health sod Hutnition                                                  c~~~~~~~~~iel, Public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capite,
Popultionper pysican -Population divided by nunber of practicing                      generally based on production data, without allowace ion losses. in
phyaiciano qualified from a nedical scobol at university level,                            grids but allowing fo-r imports and eaparte of electricity.
Newsprint ike/vr per cap) - Per capita annual con.sptiom in kilogr-m
estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
KENYA
ECONOMIC DEVLOPMENT DATA
A.tual                               PftD. 1L,   1967       1972      Sh9-e of
1967 .1/      1970 I/       1972       1973       1974       1975      1970       1975        (GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Mil US $ at 1972 Pri...
CDP                                       1257.3         1527.9        2044.0     2200 .2    2333.2     2333.4      6.7      4.5         150.0
Gains from TT                                3.4            12.1           -        10.6     - 74.2     - 79.2       -        -             -
GIUY                                      1261.3         1540.0        2044.0     2210.6     2261.8     2254.2      6.9      3.2         100.0
DepOrts                         5~~~~     ~    ~~~~80.1  483.4  650.8   644.0      672.8      572.4      8.3     -3.4           31.8
En.po;rteVh:                               37 1.0         442.2         580.8      5090.0     615.7      585.5      6.0      0.2          28.4
Eaportt  Total Adj.                        374.4          454.3         580.       600.9      541.5      506.3      6.7     -4.1          28.4
RI...urce Gap                                5.7           29 .1         70.0       44.0      13 1.3      66.1       -        -            3.4
Total1 Coosuaptloc                        1012.2         1228.1         1639.7    1759.0     2006.6     1936.6      6.7      7.3          80.2
Ioveotaeot                      ~~~~~~         ~~254.2  340.9  449.4    495.9      383.6      383.6     10.2      -4.2         22.0
Nat",',It aves219                                         302           385         842       135        267.4     12.3     -2.1          18.0
D-..etic Savings                           249.0          311.8         405.0      451.9      252.3      317.5      7.8     -4.1           19.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                             Aneual Data at Current Pri...                                      A. Percent of Total
1967          1970          1972       1973       1974       1975               1967     1970    1975
Deports
Capital Good.                              105.5           122.4         174.7     187.1      265.2      277.5             31.4     27.7     29.7
Inteccodiate Goode(elfe)                   118.3          173.2          184.8     240.7      407.0      268.6             35.2     39.2     28.7
Fuels andlrelated matr-ials                 35.0            41.3          57.4      65.6      225.6      251.1             10.4      9.3     26.9
of 'Ahiob   Petrol_co                    (34.3)         (40.2)        (56.6)     (64.4)    (224.3)   (249.8)            (10.2)   (9.1)   (26.7)
C.-~opti.. Goods                            77.4           105.5         117.9      128.9     164.7      137.2             23.0     23.8     14.7
Total Mero. Deports (oif)                  336.0          442.4         TiZ8-      622.3     1062.5      934.4           -1070.0   100.0    100.0
E,cport.
Primary Prodoota (er. fuele)               111.2          144.2          178.4     245.3     276.8       259.4             49.8     50.0     45.2
Fuole cod r9latd ot.cti.l.                  32.1            40.3          54.9      60.7     127.7       156.4             14.4     14.0     27.2
of  bioh:   Petreleo                     (32.1)          (40.3)        (54.9)    (60.7)   (127.7)     (156.4)           (14.4)   (14.0)   (27.2)
Ma..efeotored Goods                          79.8          104.1         113.4      157.0    172.7       158.2              35.8    36.1     27.6
Total M-roh. Enporta (fob)                 223.1           288.6         34-6.7    46-3.0   5T77.2       574.0            100.     100.0- 7  100.0
To-ina N.eonpts                             41.2            51.7          74.3      69.3      75.6        86.4
Merhandise Trade Iodice.                                                    1972       1973       1974      1975
Eaport Prine Iode                                                       100       114        154        177
Deport Price Indec                                                     100        114        179        212
Tomo of Trad. e ld                                                      100       100         86         83
Ea,p-rta Vol1ne loden                                                   100       115        Ill         98
A-orabe Annual Growth Rate.         Percent of Total
VALVE ADDED SY SECTOR                                               Ann..al Data at 1972 Pricee cod Enohange Rates          1972-73  1973-74    1974-75        1972        1975
Agricult.re                                                                 602        608        618       617              1.0      1.6        -0.2            32          30
Ind.stry and Mining                                                         230       270        284        295            17.4       5.2         3.9           12          14
Services                                                                   1033       1091      1148       1152              5.6      5.2         0.3           56          56
Total                                                                      1865       1969      2050       2064              5.6      4.1         0.7           100         100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                         In Crr.tne  Peines end I    Theg  Rct00
(Central Govrnment)                                                71/72     72/73     73/74    7/5       75/76
Current R ..elpt.                                                  396       417       532      633       698
Cur-et Eapsnditureo                                                360       391       458      580       630
Budgetary Savlnga                                                   36        26        74       53        68
Other Public Seetor                                                  .         .        .         .         .                 DETAIL 0N CENTRL GOVT.                  00$ milli..
Expe.dit... in Developmen t Budget                                 145       173       186      264       349                   INVESThENT PROGRAM                  At 1976 Priors
(R-i-ed 3-Year Forward                     and            % of
CURRENT EXENRDITURE DETAILS                                                                                                    Budget FY77-FY79)                    Enoh.no Rct0s      Total
(% of Total Current Eapenditore)
Diroctly Prod-ctiv- Sootoro                462            46.2
Educa.tion                                                         24.2      26.7      26.2     27.2      27.8               Eoo-oi. Inf-atruture                        280           78.0
Other S.oid   Services                                             15.6      16.0      16.0      16.1     15.6                Social tictutr                             216           21.6
Agriculture                                                         7.4       7.3       7.3      6.5       7.3                Giber                                       41            4.1
OthorIcnlo       orce                                               7.9       7.6       6.8      6.9       6.9                  TciL1 Requir-mnto                        999           lOOT
Adam.. and D.fnn                                                   37.1      33.6      34.0     33.0      31.2
Otber (ioci   ioter-t on debt)                                      7.7       8.7       9.7     10.2      11.1                Public Sootor S-viogn                      365            36.5
Total Curreot Expenditurn                                          100o      100o      100-     1O00      100                Foreign Pin..noing (net)                    346           34.6
Dometic Financing (net)                     288           28.8
Total                                   999            100%
SE.LECTED INDICATORS                            1965-70        1973-74       1975-80
ICOR                                               3.0           3.3           3.2
Deport Elasticity                                  1.0           0.5           0.93
Av. Rat. Raving Rate                              18.7          12.3          13.0
M.rg. Nat. Raving Rate                             0.22         -1.56          0.12
Deporte/GDP                                       29.8          29.1          24.5
L.ABOR PORCE AND                               Total Labor Perce                                          Value Added Per Worker (1971- Priena and Each. Rate.)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                      in Millions          %fTtlIn U0 Dollars                                                                 % of A-eraR
1971                 1971                                               1971                            1971
Agriculture                              4647                   86                                                 109                               36
Induetry                                  141                    3                                                1426                              475
Service                                   301                    6                                                1286                             .429
Total                                    5377                  100                                                 300                              100
eot available
I/ So Constant 1967-69 $.                                                                                                                                        KACPIA
Nil or negligible.                                                                                                                                            March 16. 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
KENYA
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL SSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amnts is m           ,ilions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                 Entin.                                                                                   Actual
1972      1973      1974      1975                                                                     1972      1973      1974      1975
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         MEDEIM AND LONG TERN DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Exports (ledl. NFS)                  560         697       953       975            Total Debt Outst. DOD End Period                        348.4     405.4     475.0      520.4
Imports (inel. NFS)                  605        751       1192      1104            Public Debt Service                                      24.9      28.7      30.6       31.4
Resonree Bal..c.                     -45         -56      -23B      -129              Interest                                               14.5      16.3       19.0      19.4
Other M & L Term Debt Service                            25.0      25.0      25.0       35.0
Net Factor Service Income             -34       -103      -101       -99            Total Debt Service                                       49.9       53.7      55.6      66.4
Current Transfers (Net)              +39        +23        +17       +21        DEBT BURDEN
balance on Current Account           -40        -131      -322      -207            Debt Service Ratio .                                      4.4       4.1        3.2       3.2
Debt Service Ratio 6/                                    12.3      19.9      14.5       11.7
Private Ditrect In-motuent            21         45         46        43
TEBMS
Official Capitol Grants              ..          ..         11        17
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                           4.7       4.9       4.6        4.2
Public M & L Teem Loans                                                             Total Debt Service/Total DOD                              8.1       8.5        7.8       6.9
Disbut-ements                         48          65        89       110
Amortization                           -6        -17       -17       -17        EXPOSURE
Nat erae Diab. .t.             42         48        72        93IBRD Diob./rnos Total Disb.                                           30.4      18.3      12.2      35.0
Other M & L Teem Loaes                                                              Bank Group  Diab./Gross Total Di0b.                      38.9       33.8      32.5      40.3
Disbursements                         30          53        81        32            IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        9.4       13.3      14.3      20.4
Amortization                          -11        -10       -10       -10            Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                 21.9       30.3      31.4      35.9
Net Disburme-e.ts                      19         43        71        22            IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      5.6       10.1      14.1      20.4
Une of IMSF Resources 1/               -          -         39        59            BaSk Group Debt Service/Total D.S.                        6.9       11.8      15.7      22.3
Short Toen Capital Transantions         6         15        29       -11
Capital Transactions, NEI             24          -         -         -                                                                         Outstanding Dec. 31. 1975
Chaege in Reserves                   -24         -20       +54       -19        EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                Amount                 Percent
(- increase) 2/
Foreign Eachange Reserves             202        233       193       174            IBRD                                                      106.0                   20.4
End of Period 3/                                                                Bank Group                                                 187.2                  36.0
Other Moltilateral                                          2.8                    0.5
GRANT AND LOAN CCMMIIMENTS                                                              Goverraxents                                               277.7                  53.4
of which Centrally Planned Ecooneies                     -
Official Grants                       ..         ..         11        17            Supplier-                                                   10.5                   2.0
Total PUbliC M & L Teem Loans          97        101       161       369            Financial Inetitutions                                      19.3                   3.5
IDRD (TW)                         29          34        10       194            Bonds                                                      22.0                    4.2
IDA                               28          -         34        26            Public Debt, NEI                                            2.0                    0.4
Other Motilateral                 -           1        -          4            Total Public M & L Teem Debt                               520.4                 100.0
Gcoerc=ents                        23         66       120        74            Other Public M & L Term Debt
of which Cent. planned 4/        -          -         -         -             Other M & L Tee   Debt                                     300.0                  57.7
Suppliers                          -          _         _         48            Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbcrsed)                    1071.0                  206.0
Financial Inotitutions             17          2        -         23            Total N & L Tecm Debt (incl. Ubdiebrhsed)                 1371.0                 263.7
bonds                                        -                    -
Public Loans NEI
Other M & L Term Loans (private)   -
Not available.                                                   2/ Excludes net one of IMF Resources which are            5/     Debt Service on public debt only.
Nil or negligible,                                                  shown separately.                                      6/  Debt Service on public debt   other mediom-
1/ Net of "Drawings" and "Bepay.ent of Purchase' as reported in      3/ "eIteranaional Reserves" Sury Table in IFS.                and long-teem debt (private), and net
Itoe IFS Scenery Tables on Grohenge Trosnactiono.                4/ Includes CMEA Countries, Peoples Bapoblic of China,        direct invesunest income.
North Korea, North Vietnam.
EACPIA
March 16, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at February 28, 1977
Loan or
Credit #   Year    Borrower      Purpose                     Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank    IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Seven (7) loans and ten (10) credits fully disbursed.
fully disbursed.                                            96.0    46.0
185        1970    Kenya         Education                             6.1       .8
224        1970    Kenya         Road Maintenance                     12.6     2.0
276        1972    Kenya         Highways                             22.0     2.7
326         1972   Kenya         Nairobi Airport              29.0             2.9
932        1973    Kenya         Highways                     29.0            17.1.
946        1973    IDB           DFC                           5.0               .6
468         1974   Kenya         Population                           12.0     9.3
477         1974   Kenya         Livestock                            21.5    20.1
993        1974    Kenya         Tea Factories                10.4             7.6
1093        1975   Kenya         Group Farm Credit             7.5             7.5
537        1975    Kenya         Group Farm Credit                     7.5     7.5
1105       1975    Kenya         Site and Service              8.0             8.00
543        1975    Kenya         Site and Service                      8.0     6.8
565        1975    Kenya         Agriculture-Forestry                 10.0     8.5
1132       1975    Kenya         Agriculture-Forestry         10.0             8.1 2/
1133        1975   Kenya         Transportation-Pipeline      20.0             7.3
1147        1975   TRDC          Hydroelectric Development    63.0            37.5
1148       1975    IDB           DFC                          10.0              6.4
1167       1975    Kenya         Mombasa & Coastal
Water Supply              35.0             34.8
1184       1975    Kenya         Education III                10.0             9.98
650        1976    Kenya         Integrated Agricultural
Development                        10.0    10.00
1303       1976    Kenya         Integrated Agricultural
Development               10.0             10.00
1304       1976    Kenya         Wildlife & Tourism           17.0            17.00
651        1976    Kenya         Rural Access Roads                    4.0     4.00
1305       1976    Kenya         Rural Access Roads            4.0             4.00
TOTAL                    363.9    159.7   261.6
of which has been
repaid                 10.0      0.3
TOTAL now outstanding    353.9    159.4
Amount sold      5.1
of which has
been repaid     4.5         .6      .0
TOTAL now held
by Bank & IDA           353.3    159.4
TOTAL undisbursed        188.3     73.2   261.5
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes $6.6 undisbursed grant participation.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at February 28, 1977
Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligor                  Type of Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1968 &
1973     Kenya Hotel Properties      Hotels               5.2        2.7      5.9
1970 &
1974     Pan African Paper Mills     Pulp & Paper        11.9        5.7     17.6
1972       Tourism Promotion
Services                  Hotels               2.4        -        2.4
1975       Rift Valley Textiles,
Ltd.                      Textiles             6.3        2.8      9.1
Total Gross Commitments               25.8       9.2      35.0
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                            7.4       1.7       9.1
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                         18.4       7.5      25.9
Total Undisbursed                      9.0        .7       9.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C.    Projects in Execution   1/
Credit No. 185-KE - Education:   $61 million Credit of May 20, 1970;
Effective Date: August 5, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project is practically completed; only one school, the Nyeri
Secondary Technical School is behind schedule. It is now under construction
and making satisfactory progress. Nearly all furniture and equipment have been
installed and are in use. Current estimates shows a modest cost overrun of about
US$0.5 million. The Closing Date was extended from December 31, 1975 to
December 31, 1977.
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is going well, though its final completion may be
delayed till early 1977 - some 18 months behind schedule. The delay is mainly
due to a slow start in construction of regional workshops on account of
unforeseen difficulties experienced in acquisition of sites and procurement
of steel. These difficulties have now been resolved and no further major
problems are anticipated on this project. The Closing Date was postponed from
June 30, 1975 to June 30, 1977.
Credit 276-KE - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972;
Effective Date: March 22, 1972; Closing Date December 31, 1977.
The project has suffered heavily from recent inflation, with
estimated cost overruns amounting to 60% of the original appraisal estimates.
The Government has, therefore, proposed that the two outstanding items, the
Thuchi-Nkubu and Kissi-Mogonga road improvements be deferred until the proposed
Highway Sector Loan and the funds released are redirected to meet foreign
exchange cost overruns under the present project. Work is progressing satis-
factorily, after earlier delays on the other works included in the project.
1/  These notes are,designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Loan 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project, while approximately 70% complete, has now reached a
point where further progress is in jeopardy. The current situation results from
a total project cost overrun of on the order of 79%, mostly arising from the
coincidence of the construction period and that of extraordinary world-wide
inflation. The cost problem was compounded by a termination of their contracts
by the principal construction contractors, resulting from a default of the
Government arising from its failure to make timely progress payments. The
Government appointed a special management group, steered at the permanent
secretarial level of the concerned ministries, to resolve these difficult
problems and insure completion of the project. Work is now proceeding normally.
Credit No. 344-KE - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of
November 29, 1972; Effective Date: March 2, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The project progressed well and the credit was fully
disbursed.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation has been slow and there are substantive
problems on organization, cost overruns and pricing. Government requested a
detailed review of the project and a joint IDA/other donors mission undertook an
indepth review. Their draft report is presently under discussion with Government.
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The first four factories should have been completed by March 1975,
but due to delays in original planning and by the contractors, they went into
production in November 1975., January 1976, March 1976 and June 1976 respectively.
Two more factories are now under construction and should be in operation by
November/December 1976. The documentation for three factories is now under pre-
paration and work should commence in early 1977 for completion early 1978. By
June 30, 1978, KTDA will have built 9 factories against the appraisal target of 14.
Because of high construction costs and operating costs, KTDA is studying the possi-
bility of extending existing factories instead of building new ones and designing
future factories to handle more than 1.2 kg/annum. Yields of green leaf are
lower than envisaged at appraisal but with the application of fertilizer from a
Commonwealth Development Corporation loan, improvements are expected.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation:
$7.5 Credit and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975; Effective
Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Recruitment of staff has been slow, and selection of farms is
in progress but slow particularly for the mixed farms. The project is estimated
to be about 6 to 12 months behind schedule.
Credit 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Site and Service Project:
$8.0 million Credit and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Key project staff have been appointed and project execution is
proceeding satisfactory. The construction works for the first 1,000 site and
service plots have been substantially completed. All plots have been allocated
and the first occupants have now moved on to their plots. Design and
engineering for the remaining areas of the project are being completed by
consultants. The four studies financed under this project are progressing
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
$20 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3, 1975;
Closing Date: February 1, 1979.
Contract negotiations for equipment and services obtained through
Japanese supplier's credits have been prolonged by cumbersome procedures and red
tape. This has delayed implementation of the project by about 6-8 months, but
the completion schedule can still be maintained if equipment suppliers hold to
promised delivery dates. Civil works are well underway. A 9% project cost
overrun is presently indicated. The economic return is still conservatively
estimated to remain above 20%.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
$10.0 million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Development of nurseries and preparation for planting is now well
underway. However, the drought has caused a setback in the plant-
ing program. Higher minimum wage for the forest workers and general infestation
has increased the cost of the project. The Land Use Committee has now been
established under the Ministry of Lands and Settlement whose members are composed
of the permanent secretaries of the Ministries involved with the use of land.
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: $63.0 million Loan
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Construction of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
actual expenditure for the project amounted to 26% of the total estimated comple-
tion cost as of June 1976. As a result of the devaluation of the Kenya currency
in October 1975, the project cost to the Borrower, in Kenyan pounds, is expected to
be about 3% higher than the appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project: $10.0 million
Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date; October 7, 1975; Closing Date:
July 1, 1979.
Project commitments are well under way.
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35 million Loan of
October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Progress is slower than anticipated. The initial equipment supply
contracts have been awarded, but the award of the major pipe supply and pipeline
construction contracts only recently took place and the project is now some 6-8
months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: $10 million Loan of December 31,
1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project is off to a good start. The Project Unit is fully staffed, a
survey of the physical facilities to be extended of the 17 primary teachers
colleges has been conducted. Consulting architects for the Educational Broad-
casting and Multi Media Service Station design and construction supervision are
being established. The National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities has now completed its report. A Bank/UNESCO meeting to review the
NCEOP report took place in January 1977.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural Development
Project: $10 million Loan and $10 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
This credit and loan were declared effective on March 15, 1977.
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: $17 million Loan of
July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project commitments are well under way.
Loan No.  1305-KE/Credit No.   651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:   $4 million
Loan and $4 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: October 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project commitments are well under way.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
D. East African Community
There are six projects under execution.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railwys Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of con-
sultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues.
Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their
asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted
a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than 95%
complete.  The Closing Date    has been postponed from December 31, 1976 to
December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All Loan
funds are committed under contracts, which have been awarded. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA, will have to be
deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs and lighters
financed by CIDA have occurred, and the credit has been increased accordingly
from Can. $26.0 million to Can. $33.5 million. Port labor productivity has
stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo through-put has declined considerably.
General cargo through-put has increased above appraisal forecasts for
Dar-es-Salaam, where the three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have been
completed and are being used. Cargo handling productivity here has improved
with increasing through-put.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The entire loan has been fully committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979.
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construction
have now been completed despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the relocation of the headquarters. Because of the
long lead time required for;the microwave equipment, the project is expected
to be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been
postponed to December 31, 1979.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
E. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1977
(US$ Million)
No.         Year    Borrower      Purpose                   Amount less cancellations
Bank      Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                    75.0
638 EA      1969    EAHC         Harbours                     35.0         1.7
674-EA      1970    EARC         Railways                     42.4         9.3
675-EA      1970    EAPTC         Telecommunications          10.4          0.0-
865-EA      1972    EAHC          Harbours                    26.5          6.8
914-EA      1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications          32.5          8.0
1204-EA     1976    EADB          Development Finance         15.0         15.0
Total                                          244.8        40.8
of which has been repaid                      36.9
Total now outstanding                          207.9
Amount sold                  24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4                0
Total now held by Bank_'                       207.9
Total undisbursed                               40.8
1/  $8,481.87 remains undisbursed.
2/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
KENYA THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND
PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                   Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARY:                Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
AMOUNT:                      Credit:  $20.0 million
Loan:    $ 5.0 million
TERMS:                      Credit:   Standard
Loan:    Standard Third Window terms with first
payment due in January 1983 and final
payment in the year 2001.
RELENDING TERMS:            Government would provide the proceeds of the IDA
credit relating to the lending program to AFC at
an annual interest rate not exceeding 5% per annum
provided that the resulting spread to AFC shall not
be less that 6%. These funds would not be repayable
to the Government but would be used by AFC to establish
a revolving fund to finance AFC's farm development
lending to both smallholder and medium-scale commercial
farmers. AFC would lend to final beneficiaries at an
interest rate of 11% per annum for seasonal credit and
10% per annum for medium-term loans and loans to input
suppliers. Any repayments from outstanding smallholder
loans would in turn be re-lent specifically to small-
holder farmers; likewise repayments from loans to
medium-scale farmers would be re-lent to similar
farming enterprises. Government would undertake
to replenish the fund to the level established under
the Project if for any reason outside AFC's control
the fund should be drawn down. Funds for technical
assistance would be given to AFC as a grant.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:         The proposed project would help finance AFC's on-
going lending program in 28 districts, to smallholder
farmers over a 3-year period (FY77/78-FY79/80), with
a portion of the credit for medium-sized wheat and
maize farmers. Specifically the project provides:
(a) seasonal and medium-term credit for smallholders
and medium-scale commercial wheat and maize
farms, including: (i) seasonal credit for crop
development; (ii) medium-term credit for farm
development; and (iii) medium-term credit for
farm machinery and equipment.
(b) medium-term credit for input suppliers to
ensure the availability of adequate stocks in
rural areas.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(c) technical assistance for the Ministry
of Agriculture and AFC including staff
for a Project Evaluation Unit to be
established within the Ministry of
Agriculture.
COST ESTIMATES:                       The estimated total cost of the project is
US$40.0 millionlof which US$20.5 million
or 51% represents foreign exchange costs.
The cost estimates are detailed below:



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Foreign
US$ million            Exchange
Local    Foreign    Total         %
Smallholders
Crops                                 1.82      1.22     3.04        40
Livestock                             7.78      5.18    12.96        40
Farm Machinery                        0.38      3.43     3.81        90
Subtotal                              9.98      9.83    19.81        50
Medium-Scale Farmers
Crops                                 3.56      2.37     5.93        40
Livestock                             1.30      0.94     2.24        42
Farm Machinery                        0.24      2.18     2.42        90
Subtotal                              5.10      5.49    10.59        52
Input Suppliers                         0.69      1.03     1.72       160
Technical Assistance
MOA                                   0.49      0.49     0.98        50
AFC                                   0.37      0.70     1.07        65
Subtotal                              0.86      1.19     2.05        58
Base Cost                            16.63     17.54    34.17        51
Price Contingencies                     2.82      2.98     5.80        51
Total (including taxes)                19.45     20.52    39.97        51
FINANCING PLAN:                                   US$ Million  % of Total Cost
Bank/IDA       25.0            63
Farmers         7.7            19
Government      7.3            18
Total       40.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT:              1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
----------US$ Million-------------
Annual                2.0      6.6      8.8      7.6
Cumulative            2.0      8.6     17.4     25.0
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:    Vehicles and equipment for the MOA to be financed out
of the project funds shall be procured in accordance
with the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:        Senior Credit Specialist attached to Appraisal Department
of AFC (36 man-months). In addition, project would
support salaries for additonal local staff in MOA and AFC.
RATE OF RETURN:              The overall economic rate of return is 37%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:           No. 1342-KE, dated March 2, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 Ff 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Timetable of KeEVtents
(1) The project was prepared by the Government of Kenya with the
assistance of the Bank Regional Mission in November, 1975 over a
period of six months.
(2) Application for the Loan from the Government was received in
May 1976.
(3) Appraisal of the project was carried out in June 1976.
(4) Negotiations were held in January 1977.
Special Bank Implementation Actions
No special actions required.
Special Conditions
(1) Government would provide the proceeds of the IDA credit and Bank loan
relating to the lending program to AFC at an annual interest rate not
exceeding 5% per annum provided that the resulting spread to AFC
shall not be less than 6X. These funds wbuld not be repayable to the
Government but would be used by AFC to establish a revolving fund to
finance AFC's farm development lending to both smallholder and medium-
scale commercial farmers. Funds for technical assistance would be
given to AFC as a grant (paragraph 47).
(2) AFC would extend all seasonal credit for smallholder and medium-scale
farmers for a period of one year at an interest rate of 11% per annum
and all medium-term loans to smallholder and medium-scale farmers
for a period of five years at an interest rate of 10% per annum
(paragraph 48).
(3) Loans to input suppliers would be extended for a period of one year
at an interest rate of 10% per annum; loans would be secured by a
lien against the suppliers' stock (paragraph 51).
(4) A detailed program for Project monitoring and evaluation would be
prepared by June 1, 1977 (paragraph 45).
(5) AFC's salary structure would be reviewed and revised by December
31, 1977 in order to attract and retain high calibre staff
(paragraph 43).



,,,;,-,;  ,/   \  \---  \ A t~~-- --------   n- B X5 i W
i                  R
r.T.
PI, ~ ~ 1-  
I       -               r    -~~~~~~~PO~
IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



