Report No. 1342-KE
Kenya: Appraisal of the
Third Agricultural Credit Project
March 2, 1977
Eastern Atrica Region
Agricultural Credit and Livestoc-k Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
In October 1975, the Kenya Shilling was devalued and pegged to the
SDR at rate of SDR 1 = K Sh 9.66, and the rate vis-a-vis the US Dollar has
fluctuated since that time. As a proxy for the real exchange rate, the
average for 1976 of US$1 = K Sh 8.30 was used in this report. 1/
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)             =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (km )       =   0.39 sq miles
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (1,000 kg)         0.98 long tons
1 liter                    =   0.26 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC    =     Agricultural Finance Corporation
KCC    =     Kenya Cooperative Creameries
GMR    =     Guaranteed Minimum Return Program
KFA    =     Kenya Farmers Association
MOA    =     Ministry of Agriculture
MPB    =     Maize and Produce Board
FTC    =     Farmers Training Centers
FISCAL YEAR
AFC - April 1 to March 31
1/   The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (K Sh).
However, in accordance with the practice of the Kenya Government,
some of the statistical tables reproduced in the annexes were
expressed in Kenya Pounds (K6).  KS 1 = K Sh 20.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........ . . . . . . . .  .................    .........    i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......         .......................................                1
II.    BACKGROUND  ......................................... ............                    2
A.    General  .................... ..............................                   2
B.    The Agricultural  Sector  .... ...... ........ . . . . . . . . .  .            2
C.    Agricultural  Services  .....            .............................         3
D.    Agricultural  Credit  . .........  ... ....... . . . . . . . . .  .            5
III.    FIRST AND SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL
CREDIT PROJECTS  . ........................ ... .  . .  ....      ......          7
IV.    THE PROJECT              .............................                                9
A.    General Description  .......               .o....ooo6o.......  oo              9
B.    Detailed  Features  ....o ... . o..        . ....  ........... o    .. .os.  11
C.    Project Costs  ................... o-o .... oo .....                         16
D.    Financing  oooo  ........................ o..... oo...o... o .....o.... oo.o  17
E.    Procurement  .*. *. * ........ o.................                            17
F.    Disbursement  o.............o.o* .o.....o........................            18
G.    Accounts and Audit  *. ....*..-.*...                    -......*. -*..*.     18
Vo    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  o..o.o... . .-. . .o.. ...                             18
VI.    PRODUCTION,  MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FARMER BENEFITS  .o....                         20
Ao    Production  o..-o.......................... ..... .o..... o .... o o.*....   20
B.    Markets and Prices    -... *.......           ...........o..*... *.           21
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .---.oo-oo....   24
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ..........                      - ......     25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. The Agricultural Sector
Table I -  Gross Domestic Product, 1972-1975
Table 2  -  Wage Employment by Major Sector, 1972-1975
Table 3  -  Land Registration and Adjudication as at
December 31, 1974
Table 4  -  Gross Marketed Production by Commodity, 1970-1975
Table 5  -  Total Exports of Major Commodities
Table 6  -  Livestock and Livestock Products
2. Ministry of Agriculture Supporting Services and Training Facilities
3. Agricultural Credit
Table 1 -  New Agricultural Credit Issued by Types of Farms, 1971/72-
1974/75
Table 2  -  Share of Commercial Bank Agricultural Lending in Total
Deposits and Advances
Table 3  -  Interest Rates for Agricultural Credit, January 1976
Table 4  -  Farm Size, Type of Credit and Source of Finance
Appendix 1 - Letter from the Governor of the Central Bank to the Chief
Executives of all Commercial Banks
4. The Agricultural Finance Corporation
Table 1 -  AFC Income Statements
Table 2  -  AFC Balance Sheets
Table 3  -  AFC Cash Flow
Table 4  -  AFC Project Cash Flow
Chart    -  AFC Proposed Organization Chart (World Bank 16325)
5.  First and Second Smallholder Agricultural Credit Projects
Table I -  Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 105-KE
Completion Report June 1974). Comparison of Appraisal Esti-
mates and Actual Results.
6. Smallholder Farm Credit
Table I -  Model I - Smallholder Farm Zone A (3.25 ha)
Table 2  -  Model II - Smallholder Farm Zone B (5.3 ha)
Table 3  -  Model III - Smallholder Farm Zone C (7.1 ha)
Table 4  -  Smallholder Farm - Five Sow Pig Unit Cash Flow
Table 5  -  Smallholder Farm - 325 Bird Poultry Unit Cash Flow
Table 6  -  Smallholder Farm - Tractor Unit Cash Flow
7. Medium-Scale Commercial Farm Credit
Table 1  -  Model I - Medium Scale (200 ha) Wheat Farm Cash Flow
Table 2  -  Model II - Medium Scale (200 ha) Maize Farm Cash Flow



-3-
8. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
9. Project Costs
Table 1  -  Project Costs
Table 2  -  Project Costs Including Contingencies
Table 3  -  Project Costs - Investment in Crops
Table 4  -  Project Costs - Investment in Livestock (Smallholders)
Table 5  -  Project Costs - Investment in Livestock (Medium-Size Farmer)
Table 6  -  Project Costs - Investment in Machinery
Table 7  -  Project Costs - AFC Technical Assistance
Table 8  -  Project Costs - MOA Technical Assistance
Table 9  -  Project Costs - Technical Assistance - Evaluation Unit
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.  Markets and Prices
Table 1 -  Average Gross Commodity Prices to Farmers, 1970-1975
Table 2  -  Gross Marketed Production from Large and Small Farms,
1970-1975
Table 3  -  Maize Purchased by Maize and Produce Board, 1970/71-1974/75
Table 4  -  Maize Purchases, Exports, Imports and Prices from 1966 to
1975
Table 5  -  Maize Prices Effective from January 1975
Table 6  -  Reconciliation of Maize Production and Consumption Estimates
Table 7  -  Maize and Produce Board:  Bean Purchases 1970/71-1973/74
Table 8  -  Exports of Pulses from Kenya, 1968-1974
Table 9  -  Performance of Cotton Ginneries
Table 10 -  Exports and Imports of Cotton Ginneries
Table 11 -  Production, Consumption, Imports and Exports for Major
Kenya Oil Seeds, 1968-1971
Table 12 -  Net Imports of Edible Oils and Fats, 1969-1974
Table 13 -  Oilseeds Buying Prices
Table 14 -  Pyrethrum Exports, 1965-1974
Table 15 -  Wheat Production and Consumption, 1968-1975
Table 16 -  Producer Prices for Average Grade 2 1/2 Naked Wheat,
1970-1975
Table 17 -  Price for 500 g White Bread Loaf in Nairobi and
Nakuru, 1970-1975
Table 18 -  Wheat Production and Consumption Projection
12.  Economic Analysis
Table 1 -  Financial Rates of Return
Table 2  -  Economic Rate of Return
MAP - IBRD, 3924 (R)






KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Kenya has instituted a comprehensive agri-
cultural development program designed to expand production and improve living
conditions in rural areas. As part of this effort the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) and other institutions were mobilized to make credit avail-
able to established farmers, as well as to new owners who acquired their
holdings under the land transfer program. This credit program was, however,
initially greatly unbalanced, generally ignoring the smallholders in favor of
larger farmers and agro-industrial corporations. In order to expand the
availability of credit to these smaller farmers, two IDA Credits (105-KE and
344-KE) were made to assist AFC in expanding its lending program for selected
smallholders in 22 districts. These credits were designed not only to enable
farmers to finance on-farm development and improved crop and animal husbandry
practices, but also through technical assistance to enable AFC to institute
more efficient methods of credit evaluation, and to promote a better under-
standing of credit procedures among the rural people. In addition, it has
recently become evident that improved access to credit is also vital for large
numbers of medium-scale farmers who are unable to obtain finance on reasonable
terms due to the size of existing mortgages on their land. These farms are
for the most part well managed, and if assured of adequate capital, should
easily be able to reach their full agricultural potential. The proposed
Project would therefore expand AFC s current lending program for smallholders,
and would at the same time assist medium-scale farmers who are considered
to have a good potential for improved production.
ii.       The Project would be a continuation of the previous two agricultural
credit projects; it would help finance an additional three years of AFC's
ongoing lending program to smallholder farmers, and would also assist a
number of medium-sized commercial farmers. It would enable AFC to expand
its smallholder credit operations in the 22 districts in which it now operates,
and to introduce lending activities in an additional 6 districts. Over three
years the Project would provide medium term and seasonal credit for small-
holders for dairying enterprises, farm machinery and equipment and crop
development. Medium term and seasonal credit would also be provided for
medium-scale commercial wheat and maize farmers for farm machinery, fencing,
water supplies and for the purchase of seasonal inputs. Finally, technical
assistance would be provided for the Ministry of Agriculture and AFC including
staff for a Project Evaluation Unit to be established within the Ministry
of Agriculture. The Project would be carried out by AFC with assistance
from the Land and Farm Management Division (LFMD) of the Department of Agri-
culture of the Ministry of Agriculture. Project participants would be
selected jointly by AFC and LFMD field staff in liaison with District Agri-
cultural Committees.



iii.      An IDA credit of US$20 million and Bank Loan of US$5 million on
Third Window terms are proposed; these would cover the foreign exchange
costs of the Project and about 23% of local costs over the three year Project
period. This would represent 63% of total Project costs of K Sh 332 million
(US$40.0 million). Government would contribute US$7.3 milion, and farmers
US$7.7 million. Government would provide the proceeds of the IDA credit and
the Bank loan relating to the lending program to AFC at an annual interest
rate of up to 5%. These funds would not be repayable to Government, but would
be used by AFC to establish a revolving fund to finance AFC's farm development
lending to both smallholder and medium-scale commercial farmers. Government
would undertake to replenish the fund to the level established under the
Project if for any reason outside AFC's control the fund should be drawn
down. AFC would lend to ultimate borrowers at an interest rate of not
less than 11% per annum for seasonal credit and 10% per annum for medium
term loans. Funds for technical assistance would be given to AFC as a
grant. The items to be financed would be varied and would not be suitable for
bulk procurement through international competitive bidding. However, there is
adequate competition, both international and national, in offering goods
through the normal supply channels which buyers would use. Major producers of
farm machinery and fertilizers are represented in Kenya. Sales and after
sales services are adequate, supplies satisfactory and prices competitive.
Grade cows would be purchased from local sources and there are adequate
supplies of seeds. Procurement would, therefore, be through normal commercial
channels.
iv.       The Project would enable farmers to increase their production
through a more intensive use of their lands, with resulting improvements
in yields. The actual cropping area would increase by about 2,000 ha for
smallholders, and by about 12,000 ha for medium-scale farmers. The improvement
in yields would result from use of selected seeds, fertilizer and pesticides,
better soil preparation for crops, and from the introduction of grade cows,
improved poultry and pigs, combined with better husbandry standards. For
medium-scale farms the acquisition of farm machinery would be a major factor
in projected yield increases, as would the expansion of acreage under crops.
On the basis of improved yields and increased cropping area, the estimated
annual incremental Project production at full development would be 35,000
tons of maize, 10,000 tons of wheat, 8,000 tons of potatoes, 6,000 tons of rape-
seed, 2,000 tons of dried sunflower, 3,000 tons of beans, 39 million liters of
milk and 12 million eggs. In addition there would be smaller quantities of
cotton, pyrethrum, beef, poultry and bacon. It should be emphasized, however,
that the quantities produced of each would depend to a large degree on the
price relationships between commodities. As these prices are subject to
change, the quantities produced would tend to reflect the change in prices.
v.        The farm models developed for both smallholders and medium-scale
farmers show that incremental farm income attributable to the Project
would be substantial. Smallholder incomes under all three models would
more than double. Medium-scale farms would show an average increase of
slightly over 100% under both the wheat and maize models; wheat farms would
show an increase in farm income from K Sh 35,600 to K Sh 74,600 and maize
farms an increase from K Sh 34,200 to K Sh 78,000. Accurate data on the



- iii -
net employment resulting from the Project are not available. However,
increased labor requirements for farm exploitation would increase
working hours for labor already employed and would also provide oppor-
tunities for additional employment; requirements for on-farm seasonal
labor would be significantly increased during the planting and harvesting
seasons.
vi.          The overall economic rate of return for the Project over twenty
years would be 37%. In this analysis foreign exchange costs (including
technical assistance) and benefits were shadow priced at US$1 = K Sh 10
(as compared with the present rate of US$1 = K Sh 8.3) to more adequately
reflect the value of foreign exchange to Kenya.  It was assumed that cotton
and pyrethrum would be exported, and that wheat, rapeseed and sunflower would
represent import substitutes.   The net foreign exchange effect of this as-
sumption would be negative in the early years, but would eventually result in
a modest saving to the economy. All labor costs were valued at the prevailing
wage rates which are assumed to reflect the economic costs of this type of
semi-skilled labor. The rate of return would be somewhat sensitive to changes
in the basic parameters.   A 10% increase in investment costs would reduce
the return by 5% to 32% and a 10% increase in all costs would decrease the
return by 10% to 27%.   A 10% decrease in yields or prices would reduce the
rate of return by 11% to 26%.
vii.        Since 1960, the Bank Group have extended twelve loans and credits
totalling US$91 million for agricultural development projects in Kenya in
four main areas of activity:   settlement and farm credit (four projects),
livestock development (two projects), afforestation for pulp and saw wood
production (two projects) and development of smallholder tea and tea factories
(two projects).   In addition a loan and a credit each for US$7.5 million
were approved in 1975 to assist in the rehabilitation of group farms.  An
IDA credit for US$10 million and a "Third Window" Bank loan of US$10 million
were recently approved for the Integrated Agricultural Development Program.
The credit/loan is expected to become effective in December, 1976. In general,
projects have been well executed, although there have been substantial delays
affecting the livestock projects; a comprehensive review of the Second Live-
stock Development Project (477-KE) has recently been completed, and discus-
sions are now underway with Government with regard to the possible re-
structuring of the Project.   The Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has en-
countered problems in its initial stages, and further delays in project
implementation are expected.
viii.      The proposed Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$20 million
and a Third Window loan of US$5 million to the Government of Kenya.






KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Kenya has instituted a comprehensive agricul-
tural development program designed to expand production and improve living
conditions in rural areas. As part of this effort the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) and other institutions were mobilized to make credit avail-
able to established farmers, as well as to new owners who acquired their
holdings under the land transfer program. This credit program was, however,
initially greatly unbalanced, generally ignoring the smallholders in favor
of larger farmers and agro-industrial corporations. In order to expand the
availability of credit to these smaller farmers, two IDA Credits (105-KE and
344-KE) were made to assist AFC in expanding its lending program for selected
smallholders in 22 districts. These credits were designed not only to enable
farmers to finance on-farm development and improved crop and animal husbandry
practices, but also through technical assistance to enable AFC to institute
more efficient methods of credit evaluation, and to promote a better under-
standing of credit procedures among the rural people. In addition, it has
recently become evident that improved access to credit is also vital for
large numbers of medium-scale farmers who are unable to obtain finance on
reasonable terms due to the size of existing mortgages on their land. These
farms are for the most part well managed, and if assured of adequate capital,
should easily be able to reach their full agricultural potential. The
proposed Project would therefore expand AFC's current lending program for
smallholders, and would at the same time assist medium-scale farmers who are
considered to have a good potential for improved production. The credit
would in both cases finance crop development, improved dairy cows, poultry
and other livestock, and farm machinery. Technical assistance would also
be provided for both AFC and the Ministry of Agriculture to support the
improvement of their credit delivery systems.
1.02      Since 1960, the Bank Group have extended twelve loans and credits
totalling US$91 million for agricultural development projects in Kenya in
four main areas of activity: settlement and farm credit (four projects),
livestock development (two projects), afforestation for pulp and saw wood
production (two projects) and development of smallholder tea and tea fac-
tories (two projects). In addition a loan and a credit each for US$7.5
million were approved in 1975 to assist in the rehabilitation of group
farms. An IDA credit for US$110 million and a "Third Window" Bank loan of
US$10 million were recently approved for the Integrated Agricultural Develop-
ment Project; the credit/loan is expected to become effective in December
1976. In general, projects have been well executed, although there have
been substantial delays affecting the livestock projects a comprehensive
review of the Second Livestock Development Project (477-KE) has recently been
completed, and discussions are now underway with Government with regard to the
possible re-structuring of the project. The Group Farm Rehabilitation Project
has encountered problems in its initial stages, and further delays in project
implementation are expected.



-2-
1.03       This Project was prepared by the Kenya Government with assistance
from the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and the IBRD Resident Mission
in East Africa (RMEA). This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission
which visited Kenya in June 1976 consisting of Messrs. T. Baddar, J. Frankel
and B. Mutharika.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01       Kenya has a total area of 583,000 km  and is a country of striking
topographical and climatic variety.   More than half of the total area is
semi-desert, but the remaining land, varying in climate from tropical to
temperate, includes some of the most fertile soils in Africa.   The popula-
tion was estimated at 13.3 million in mid-1975 and is growing at a rate of
about 3.5% per year.   About 90% of the population lives in rural areas and
is dependent on agriculture for its livelihood. The average annual per
capita income of those living in rural areas is now estimated at K Sh 580
(US$70), and the countrywide average at K Sh 1,826 (US$220).
2.02        The climate varies with altitudes, which range from sea level to
over 5,000 meters.   Three broad rainfall zones can be distinguished.   The
first zone with dry hot climate lies north of the equator, with a rainfall
on average of less than 500 mm per annum.  The second is the medium rainfall
zone in the coastal region, which has a hot and damp climate and rainfall of
from 1,250 to 1,500 mm per annum. The third zone is a high rainfall area with
cool climate; it is located mainly in the highlands and plateau areas and has
an annual rainfall of up to 1,900 mm in some areas.   Agriculture is mainly
concentrated in the high potential agricultural areas in the Western region,
along the coast, and around Mount Kenya.
B. The Agricultural Sector (Annex 1)
2.03        Before Independence, commercial farming was substantially under-
taken on large-scale farms owned and operated mainly by Europeans.   A sig-
nificant number of these holdings have now been subdivided.  Today there are
some 1.2 million smallholdings with an acreage of 20 ha or less; about 50% of
the holdings are less than 2 ha each.  The majority of the smallholdings are
farmed by their owners, many of whom are women, and include squatters on
Government land or estates, residents of "group owned" large farms, and
"acceptees" who farm the land of neighboring tribes to which they do not
traditionally belong.  Of these smallholdings, about 20% are commercial farms
producing marketable surplus food and cash crops, 20% are in the transitional
stages from subsistence to commercial farming, and the remaining 60% are
subsistence farms.   At the present time there are still about 1,000 large
farms with holdings in excess of 400 ha each, and somewhat over 2,000 medium-



scale farms of 20-400 ha each. The Government is committed to a program of
land adjudication and registration designed to provide farmers with trans-
ferable title to their land. This process has been virtually completed in the
main agricultural areas.
2.04      Between 1972 and 1974, Kenya's GDP at market prices was estimated
to have grown at an annual real rate of 4. 7%, as compared with an annual
rate of growth of 6.3% between 1964 and 1972. The disappointing growth of
agriculture, traditionally Kenya's most important sector, was a major factor
in the overall slowdown of economic activity. In 1973 and 1974, drought was
widespread throughout Kenya, while the weather conditions were unfavorable in
parts of the country in 1975. Input costs soared and hit in particular those
farmers dependent on imported equipment and fertilizer. Agriculture still
accounts for over 60% of total exports; of these coffee and tea are the most
important (64% of agricultural exports), followed by pyrethrum extracts,
sisal, wattle extract, cotton, nuts, fruits, vegetables, meat, wool, dairy
products and animal feeds.
2.05      Subsistence cultivation accounts for over half of total agricul-
tural production. The major subsistence foodcrops are maize, bananas,
sorghum, millet and pulses. Smallholders also produce beans, coffee, tea,
pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds, livestock, milk, potatoes and fruits. Many
smallholders are active members of one or more of the 1,500 cooperative
societies which process and market coffee, pyrethrum, cotton and dairy
products, and supply farm inputs, short-term credit, cattle dipping facil-
ities and tractor services to their members.
Prices
2.06      Prices at all levels for the more important food crops are fixed by
the Government. Once the price levels are established, the Government then
seeks to enforce farm gate prices through direct and sometime exclusive
purchase of produce from farmers by marketing boards; on the wholesale and
retail levels, prices are monitored by the Price Controller, who watches in
particular the price movements of 31 basic necessities. The enforcement of
official prices has met with varying degrees of success. The so-called
scheduled commodities include two main food grains, maize and wheat, two main
livestock products, beef and milk and also crops like sugar, cotton and rice.
In constrast, prices of the four main export crops, coffee, tea, sisal and
pyrethrum are largely determined by world market conditions.  Farm gate prices
for scheduled commodities are formally announced well ahead of planting by
the Ministry of Agriculture, wholesale and retail prices by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. Both ministries and the various marketing boards
participate in the decision making process. Prices become effective upon
publication in the Official Gazette.
C. Agricultural Services (Annex 2)
2.07      Government services to agriculture are delivered through four
ministries and 15 statutory production boards. The Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) has the primary responsibility for agricultural development and farmer



- 4 -
services. The Ministry of Cooperative Development (MCD) supervises coop-
erative organizations, and provides them with management advice. The Ministry
of Works and the Ministry of Natural Resources are responsible for the pro-
vision and maintenance of crop extraction roads and rural water supplies
respectively. The statutory boards involved in agriculture are either general,
as the Maize and Produce Board which trades in most food crops, or crop-
specific, e.g. the Kenya Tea Development Authority, the Coffee Board and the
Pyrethrum Board. Many of these institutions enjoy monopoly powers and each
plays an important role in its particular field. The initiation and imple-
mentation of development projects have been decentralized through the in-
creased use of District Development Committees which approve and monitor all
development projects at the district level.
2.08      Research and extension services.  Agricultural research has in
the past been mainly crop oriented and has not specifically addressed the
needs of smallholders. However, much of this research, notably in the
development of new maize varieties, is adaptable to the needs of small
farmers, and some appropriate input packages have been established.
Although Kenya has a large extension service for both crops and livestock,
its effectiveness is impaired in three ways: first, many of its staff
have inadequate technical background requiring intensified in-service
training; second, much of its better staff has been over-specialized and
lack an adequate understanding of total farm needs; and third, the services
suffer from inadequate recurrent budgetary support which seriously affects
staff mobility and effectiveness.
2.09      Training of staff and farmers is provided for by a large network
of colleges and training institutions. Senior agricultural staff have
usually been trained to university degree level within the University of
Nairobi or overseas. Intermediate level staff are trained to diploma stan-
dard at the Egerton and Embu agricultural colleges, while junior staff obtain
their training either at Embu or at Farmer Training Centers. Most districts
have at least one Farmer Training Center (FTC), designed to introduce farmers
to modern techniques through short residential courses. Because of budgetary
constraints a large number of FTC's have been closed for long periods each
year, which has considerably reduced their effectiveness. In 1972, MOA
initiated a training scheme designed to update the training of all exten-
sion officers, particularly in the technological aspects of crop and animal
production. In the same year the Ministry created the Land and Farm Manage-
ment Division (LFMD), which has given special emphasis to the employment of
specialist staff with responsibility for helping to improve farm management
standards; the LFMD has played an important role in assisting the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) in the evaluation of smallholder credit projects.
2.10      Supply of fertilizers, pesticides, and seeds has been undertaken
in the past mainly by private firms and organizations, the largest single
distributor being the Kenya Farmers Associations (KFA) through a national
network of branches and stockists. While practically all artificial fer-
tilizers have to be imported, the Kenya Seed Company (KSC), a commercial
organization, undertakes the multiplication of maize, sunflower and pasture
seed. MOA seed inspection service certifies that seed offered for sale



- 5 -
meets legally prescribed purity and germination standards.   Planting mate-
rials for tea, coffee, and pyrethrum are supplied by the respective devel-
opment agencies through nurseries located in main production areas, and
cotton seed is supplied by the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board.
2.11      Project monitoring and evaluation.  Government is now in the
process of developing a comprehensive national system of project monitoring
and evaluation.   As part of this effort an Integrated Rural Survey (IRS)
designed to provide basic statistics on rural areas is being initiated by
the Central Bureau of Statistics.   To date the IRS has been undertaken in
only a few pre-selected areas, but once the results of these efforts have
been analyzed, it is expected to be extended to all small and medium-scale
farming areas.   The monitoring  and evaluation of both ongoing and future
agricultural projects is also expected to be facilitated by the establish-
ment of a Project Evaluation Unit within the Economic Planning Division
of the Ministry of Agriculture, and by the implementation of a pilot
scheme for monitoring and evaluation of specific aspects of the USAID
supported Smallholder Production Credit and Services Project; it is hoped
that together these efforts will enable the development of an appropriate
system for the continuous, long-term monitoring of progress in the small
farm sector.
D. Agricultural Credit (Annex 3)
2.12       Agricultural credit in Kenya is available through a number of in-
stitutions in the organized credit market and individuals operating in an
informal market.   Five types of credit institutions can be distinguished:
(1) commercial banks which provide working capital and development credit
channeled largely through medium or large-scale farmers; (2) the Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation (AFC) which gives loans to large as well as small-
scale farmers; (3) cooperative banks which provide development and seasonal
loans to their members; (4) parastatal organizations such as crop or produce
boards which provide seasonal loans or medium loans mainly for the develop-
ment of cash crops; and (5) other credit institutions which provide suppliers
credit through institutions such as the Kenya Farmers' Association, Settle-
ment Fund and the Kenya breweries.
Agricultural Finance Corporation (Annex 4)
2.13       AFC was established in 1963 to assist in the development of agri-
culture and agricultural industries, and it is now the main credit channel
for small and medium-scale farmers.   At present it extends mainly long-term
credit under three large-scale schemes including:  land purchase and develop-
ment loans under the British Land Transfer Program; and ranching loans funded
by USAID, Sweden and IDA (Credits 105-KE and 344-KE).  In addition to those
schemes supported by external donors, AFC operates its own small and large-scale
lending schemes and acts as agent for the Guaranteed Minimum Return Program
(which provides seasonal credit to growers with more than 6 ha under wheat
and hybrid maize as well as insurance against crop failures).  AFC financing
is provided mainly by Government in the form of irredeemable or ownership



-6-
capital, part of which is interest-bearing; the remainder is interest-free
grants, and redeemable or long-term debt capital. Interest-bearing capital
is lent by Government at interest rates ranging from 1% to 6% per annum.
For fiscal year 1976, the blend of interest payable averaged 3.4% on total
resources including interest-free grants. Since 1969 AFC has made loans
totalling US$31.0 million, and has charged interest of 7.5% on land purchase
loans and 8% on all others. AFC's standard rate on new loans was increased
to 9% in the last quarter of 1974. Interest receivable in fiscal year 1976
averaged about 7.1% on the total portfolio, giving AFC a spread of 3.7%.
This margin has thus far proved insufficient to cover AFC's operating ex-
penses, and the Corporation has operated at a loss in most years since 1969;
the unaudited figures for fiscal 1976 indicate that AFC has just managed
to break even. It appears then that a rate higher than AFC's present standard
rate of 9% would be necessary to allow AFC to operate at a reasonable profit.
AFC's costs are increased by the need to service a large number of small
borrowers and to maintain a country-wide network of branches; overall, its
level of efficiency is considered satisfactory. However, it is expected that
the recent increases in AFC's lending rate in addition to an-expected improve-
ment in the arrears situation should bring about an improvement in AFC's
operating results, although an even higher rate would still be necessary to
allow them to make a reasonable profit.
The Cooperative Bank of Kenya
2.14      The Cooperative Bank of Kenya was established in 1968 to serve as
a source of finance for cooperative societies and to provide an outlet for
societies' funds and members' savings. It does not deal with individuals,
but only with unions; the latter onlend to societies which in turn onlend
to members. As of June 1976, the Cooperative Bank had granted nearly
110,000 loans involving 260,000 farmers.
The Commercial Banking System
2.15      Historically, the greater part of agricultural credit for
large-scale farms and estates in Kenya has been supplied by the commercial
banks. 1/ Of the total agricultural credit extended by all sources in
1975/76, over 50% was supplied by the commercial banks; the remaining 50%
was supplied by AFC and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (20% each) and by
input suppliers (10%). Although the commercial banks are better suited
to servicing large farmers, nevertheless, many of the large banks have
experimented with smallholder loans during the period since independence.
1/   The commercial banking system consists of three large institutions --
Kenya Commercial Bank, Barclays Bank International, and Standard Bank
(Kenya) -- linked to British bank groups, one small entirely Government-
owned bank and three minor foreign operations.



Thus far these banks have made about 8,000 loans to small farmers at interest
rate ranging between 9% and 10%, but the main emphasis of their lending
program remains on large-scale farms and agro-industrial corporations.
Other Credit Institutions
2.16      Agricultural credit is also provided by several statutory boards
(at interest rates ranging from 8-12% per annum) and private traders. Some
of the statutory organizations provide credit in kind for the production of
crops (especially in the case of loans for agricultural inputs) for which
they are the single marketing channel. Funds are provided for settlement
purposes, and seasonal advances for medium and large-scale maize and wheat
operations administered under the Guaranteed Minimum Return Program.
Terms and Conditions for Agricultural Lending
2.17      Agricultural credit in Kenya is generally secured by chattels or
mortgages on land and/or by floating charges on crops and movable property
such as farm machinery and equipment. Both AFC and commercial banks follow
these practices and the latter may also take pledges on non-agricultural
income such as salaries. Cooperative societies lend to members against
crop expectation as well as personal guarantors. Other institutional
credit is secured by land, chattel mortgages, and through mortgages on
farm machinery and equipment.
III.  FIRST AND SECOND SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
First Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (Annex 5)
3.01      The First Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (105-KE) was
approved in mid 1967 and was designed to provide medium-term loans to 8,000
smallholders in 18 of Kenya's 41 districts; the districts chosen were those
with a generally high agricultural potential and a reasonably well developed
infrastructure. Total project cost was estimated at US$6.0 million; this was
met by an IDA credit of US$3.6 million, and contributions of US$1.4 million
from Government and US$1.0 million from the loan recipients. At appraisal the
majority of funds were allocated to on-farm development, and smaller amounts
were set aside for tractor loans to custom hire operators, expatriate staff
contracts and other institutional services. It was estimated that only about
15% of the funds planned for on-farm development would be spent on dairying
(and related investments in fencing, water supply, etc.), while the remainder
would be devoted to crop improvement and land clearing. The Agricultural
Finance Corporation (which at that time had little experience with small-
holder loans) was executing agency for the project. The loans were to be
provided to farmers who possessed a registered title to their land and who had
submitted acceptable farm investment plans; these plans were drawn up with
technical assistance furnished by field extension staff from the newly estab-
lished Land and Farm M4anagement Division (LFM4D) within the Ministry of Agri-
culture.



- 8 -
3.02      The project was slow in getting underway, and the development
period was therefore eventually extended from 4 to 6 years. The major
problems encountered included difficulties in the recruitment of key staff,
delays in the preparation of farm investment plans, inadequate training and
supervision of extension staff, and a shortage of high grade dairy cattle.
The project was also delayed by the fact that it was made part of Government's
long term program of consolidation of smallholdings into viable economic units
with registered titles. AFC would not lend without evidence of a registered
title, and the slow issue of titles in project areas was a definite constraint
to the lending program in the early years.
3.03      The dominant feature of project implementation was, however, the
drastic change in the composition of the loans approved from what had been
foreseen at appraisal. In practice, over 85% of the volume of loans approved
were for dairy enterprises, and only 15% were for crop development. This
shift was attributable not only to the relatively higher milk prices and the
smaller risk and speedier cash return inherent in dairying, but also to the
fact that as AFC experienced difficulty in appraising and supervising the more
complicated cropping loans, it tacitly approved this change in emphasis. As a
consequence of these changes, the project's main objective of bringing new
land under cultivation by clearing some 11,000 ha and deep ploughing a total
of 30,000 ha was not achieved. However, whatever the difficulties, the
project did achieve some significant benefits. By full disbursement on June
30, 1973, some 10,225 loans to smallholder farmers had been approved by AFC.
The average loan was between K Sh 3,000 and K Sh 4,000 and typically was for
two dairy cows, fencing, a water tank, dairy equipment and some crop develop-
ment. Other more indirect benefits were the establishment of the Land and
Farm Management Division, the strengthening of AFC, support to the smallholder
dairy industry, and the introduction of credit to farmers who previously had
no experience with its use.
Second Smallholders Agricultural Credit Project (Annex 5)
3.04      The Second Credit Project (344-KE) provided continued support for
the AFC smallholder lending program initiated under the First Project. Over
a three year period (1973-1976), it provided finance for smallholder loans
for dairying (65%), crop production (23%), poultry (3%) and farm machinery
and equipment (9%); it also included technical assistance for the Ministry
of Agriculture and AFC, as well as funds for an agricultural credit survey.
Overall some 7,800 farmers in 22 districts were expected to benefit from the
project. Total project cost was estimated at US$9.2 million; the IDA credit
of US$6.0 million financed some 64% of this, with the remainder provided by
AFC and Government (US$1.8 million) and farmers (US$1.4 million).
3.05      Generally, the project progressed on schedule, and IDA funds were
fully disbursed by June 30, 1976. By that time some 12,000 loans had been
disbursed, averaging about K Sh 6,700 each; about 75% of these were for
dairy cattle and related investments, 8% for poultry and other livestock,
9% for crop development and 13% for machinery. Actual loan commitments
were slightly in excess of funds provided under the project; this was made



- 9 -
possible by additional budgetary allocations from the Treasury, by the avail-
ability of repayments under both the First and Second Credit Projects, and by
the reallocation of unused funds for technical assistance and a credit survey.
The proposed credit survey is now being undertaken with USAID assistance.
3.06      Overall, the project was reasonably successful in providing a
source of credit to well-managed smallholder enterprises in the better
farming districts in Kenya. As is indicated by the high ratio of loans
requested and approved, loans for dairying proved particularly attractive
to farmers and most of the project dairy farmers showed an acceptable return
on their investment. Poultry and pig loans were of somewhat less interest;
only those farms which were well managed and had easy access to markets
seemed to be successful in these endeavors. Although the crop development
loans proved to be much less popular than anticipated, it is clear that
most of the crops financed under the project (maize, beans, potatoes, tea,
and pyrethurm) were quite successful. One of the most notable results of
the project was the emergence of AFC as an effective institution capable
of administering rural credit programs. In the course of the three years,
AFC achieved significant improvements in its loan approval procedures and
was able to give increased attention to long term planning and loan follow-
up. AFC's organizational structure was consolidated allowing a decentral-
ized, less time-consuming approach to loan appraisal; fourteen of the twenty-
five AFC branch offices in the project area were authorized to approve
loans up to K Sh 10,000, resulting in a considerable shortening of loan
processing time. AFC's overall progress was also evidenced by the gradual
improvement in loan supervision (arrears in relation to total portfolio
improved from 21% in March 1974 to 13% in September 1975), and by the fact
that for the first time in many years, AFC was able to break even for the
year ending in March 1976. Certain aspects of its operations still require
attention, however; these include strengthening of the Finance and Accounts
Department, and an improved reporting format for the processing of loan
arrears. Likewise, intensified training for both AFC and Ministry of Agri-
culture is urgently required.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would be a continuation of the previous two agricul-
tural credit projects, and would help finance an additional three years of
AFC's ongoing lending program to smallholder farmers. It would enable AFC
to expand its smallholder credit operations in the 22 districts in which it
now operates, and to introduce lending activities in an additional 6 dis-
tricts. The Project would also assist a number of medium-size commercial
farmers who are not able to obtain finance on reasonable terms due to the
size of existing mortgages on their land. These farms are generally well
managed and operated, but are constrained from achieving their full poten-
tial due to lack of capital. Specifically, over three years the Project
would provide:



- 10 -
(a) seasonal and medium term credit for smallholders
including:
(i) medium term credit for dairying enter-
prises, poultry and pigs;
(ii) medium term credit for farm machinery
and equipment; and
(iii) seasonal credit for crop development.
(b)  medium term and seasonal credit for medium-scale
commercial wheat and maize farms for the purchase
of seasonal inputs, farm machinery, fencing, and
water supplies;
(c)  medium term credit for input suppliers to ensure
the availability of adequate stocks in rural
areas;
(d)  technical assistance for the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and AFC including staff for a Project Evalua-
tion Unit to be established within the Ministry
of Agriculture.
The Project would be implemented by the AFC with assistance from the Land
and Farm Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.
4.02      The table below summarizes the number and type of loans to be
financed under the Project. The allocation of credit funds reflects experience
gained from the first two agricultural credit projects, and is thought to be
realistic in terms of the returns presently expected from the various enter-
prises. The actual number of loans made in any single category will, however,
depend on the relative attractiveness of the various activities at a given
time.



- 11 -
Average         Total      % of
No. of     Investment        (K Sh     Total
Loans       (K Sh '000)     Million)   Loans
Small-Scale Farmers
Crops                                   10,000            2.5         25.2       10
Dairy (grade cows, etc.)                13,500            7.5        101.4       38
Poultry                                    200           12.0          2.5        1
Pig Units                                  144           25.0          3.7        1
Farm Machinery                             285          110.0         31.6       12
Subtotal                                                       164.4        62
Medium-Scale Farmers
Crops and Livestock                        520          130.0         67.8       25
Farm Machinery                             140          140.0         20.0        8
Subtotal                                                        87.8        33
Farm Input Suppliers                       285           50.0         14.3        5
TOTAL                                                     266.5       100
B. Detailed Features
Smallholder Farm Credit (Annex 6)
4.03       The Project would extend both medium term and seasonal credit
to relatively more sophisticated and commercially oriented smallholders
who are interested in improved productivity and who show a good potential
for expanded production. Medium term credit would be extended for 5 years at
an interest rate of not less than 10% per annum.  Seasonal credit of up to K
Sh 20,000 per farmer would be extended for 1 year at an interest rate of not
less than 11% per annum.  Farmers would be required to make a 20% contribution
toward the total finance requirement; however, family labor would be valued as
part of the individual's contribution. These loans would be secured according
to established AFC procedures.   Assurances that these loan terms would be
applied by AFC were obtained at negotiations.  It is estimated that about 20%
of those farmers receiving credit under the Project would be established
borrowers who had already received previous loans from AFC.



- 12 -
4.04      Crops.  Seasonal credit would be extended to farmers to assist
in the production of food crops (maize, beans, groundnuts, potatoes and
bananas) and cash crops (pyrethrum and cotton). The major items purchased
would be: farm inputs such as improved seeds and initial supplies of fer-
tilizer and pesticides; small spray pumps; cultivation operations on a
contract basis (including land clearance); and hired labor.
4.05      The procedure for crop loans would follow the established AFC
application and screening procedure. AFC would extend a line of credit
to cover the farmer's estimated seasonal input requirements over a two to
three years period. The proposed procedure would enable the farmer to use
part of the line of credit in the first year and then, provided the first
year's drawing had been fully repaid, he would be able to draw against the
same loan in the succeeding two years. This procedure would allow a certain
degree of forward planning which is not present under the existing system
whereby loan applications must be renewed each year. AFC would process an
estimated 10,000 smallholder crop loans over the three year Project period.
4.06      Dairy Enterprises.  Medium term credit would be extended to pro-
vide additional finance for dairy enterprises. Experience has shown that
these operations are financially attractive, technically feasible and within
the managerial capability of most smallholders.   A total of about 13,500 such
loans would be made over the three year period; individual loans would average
about K Sh 6,000 and would cover 80% of the total investment. The main items
purchased would include grade dairy cows, fencing, dairy buildings and equip-
ment, water supply, etc. Disease control and animal sanitation programs would
be implemented and supervised by the veterinary services of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
4.07      Poultry and Pigs.  Demand for poultry and pig products in Kenya is
increasing, and the Project would provide finance for the establishment of
200 poultry units (325 birds each), and 144 pig units (5 sow units). Invest-
ment would include purchase of animals, building materials and construction of
pig and poultry sheds, small implements, water supply, feed stuff, vaccines
and veterinary supplies. MIanagement standards required for these enterprises
are high, and AFC would, in conjunction with the Minstry of Agriculture, care-
fully scrutinize applicants on their previous farming experience. The average
loan size would be around K Sh 9,600 for poultry and K Sh 20,000 for pigs.
4.08      Farm Machinery and Equipment.  While a labor surplus may exist
during part of the year on most farms, the area planted with annual cash
crops is limited by the labor shortage during the time of soil cultivation
and weeding. Although many farmers could increase the productivity of their
farms by using improved seed and fertilizer, and by increasing the quality
of husbandry standards, many farmers would also need to expand the area
under crops. Such expansion, however, would only be possible if the critical
labor constraints during land preparation, planting and subsequent weeding
can be removed. This can best be accomplished through the provision of
mechanical cultivation equipment. As it is uneconomical for the small scale
farmer to use a tractor exclusively on his farm, all tractors in small scale
farm areas are used for contract work. In the off-season, the availability



- 13 -
of a trailer normally allows the farmer/contractor to meet some of the
considerable demand for short distance heavy transport in the small scale
farm areas; this in turn enables him to offer lower charges on field work.
In order to satisfy the need for mechanical soil cultivation in the areas
covered by the Project, a total of 285 tractor units would be financed under
the Project.   Where ox ploughing is more common in areas of low rainfall,
it would be necessary to introduce improved harness and equipment for ox-
cultivation as a means of substantially improving work performance.   These
would also be provided for under the Project.
Medium-Size Farm Credit (Annex 7)
4.09        The proposed Project would include a credit component aimed spe-
cifically at medium-scale farms. These farms range in size from 20 to 400 ha,
and are generally located on high potential agricultural land in the Rift
Valley Province. The majority of the farms were purchased by Kenyan nationals
from their former European owners with financial assistance from the Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation (AFC) which provided long term loans secured by a
mortgage on the land.  At the present time the farms, although quite often
well managed, are seriously under-capitalized. As the owners lack additional
security, they are unable to obtain the medium and short-term credit necessary
for the purchase of farm inputs and machinery, as commercial banks do not
normally accept a second mortgage as security. Over the past three years, AFC
loans to medium-scale farms have averaged K Sh 110,000, and were generally
used  to finance farm machinery,  dairying, building construction and water
supply, poultry, pigs and sheep, and crops. However, applications have
exceeded approvals because of AFC's shortage of funds.   The Project would
enable AEC to expand this type of lending to medium-scale farms which, but for
the shortage of capital, have a good potential for growth.   AFC expects to
provide development and seasonal credit for about 390 wheat and 130 maize
farms whose owners can demonstrate that the farms are well managed and
operated but that they are unable to obtain credit elsewhere on reasonable
terms. Loans of up to K Sh 150,000 would be made to assist in the purchase of
farm machinery (tractor, plough, seed drill, etc.), fencing, water supply, and
seasonal inputs.  Farmers would be required to make a contribution of 25% of
the entire farm development costs.   Any farmer who was in default under an
existing long term mortgage loan from AFC would be eligible for additional
medium and short term loans only under exceptional circumstances.   Seasonal
credit would be extended for 1 year at an interest rate of not less than 11%
per annum, and medium term credit for 5 years at an interest rate of not less
than 10% per annum. These loans would be secured according to established AFC
procedures.   Assurances that these loan terms would be applied by AFC were
obtained at negotiations.
Input Suppliers
4.10         One of the most important considerations in the implementation
of smallholder credit operations is the ability to assure a timely supply
of inputs and feedstuffs. Difficulties with supplies of this type have
often constituted a serious bottleneck to previous credit programs, particu-
larly those undertaken in the more remote areas.  Now that AFC is expanding
its operations to other less developed districts, those bottlenecks could



- 14 -
become more frequent and more serious. Consequently, the Project would,
through AFC, make K Sh 14.3 million available to input suppliers (stock-
ists) to enable these traders to carry sufficient supplies of necessary
inputs and feedstock so as to ensure that these goods would be available
whenever required by farmers in the area. Loans would be extended for up to a
three year period at an interest rate of not less than 10% per annum; loans
would be secured by a lien against the suppliers' stock. Assurances that
these loan terms would be applied by AFC were obtained at negotiations.
Technical Assistance
4.11      Ministry of Agriculture.  Although the Land and Farm Management
Division (LFMID) of the Ministry of Agriculture is now fairly well estab-
lished, previous credit projects have suffered from the slow rate at which
farm budgets have been prepared by LFMD staff, and from poor coordination
between the LFMD and AFC. Delays in project implementation have also been
attributed to inadequate staff training, poor field supervision and the
perennial shortage of transport. The proposed Project would help to alleviate
these problems through the provision of additional staff for the Ministry, as
well as through training of existing extension workers and local farmers; the
Project would also provide vehicles to allow improved mobility in the selected
districts. The staff to be provided would include a Project Coordinator,
Agricultural Officers (12), Technical Officers (8), Mechanization Officers
(4), Technical Assistants (20) and clerical staff (3). Details are given in
Annex 9, Table 8. The Project Coordinator would be specifically responsible
for ensuring full coordination between LFMD's extension staff charged with the
preparation of farm budgets, and the AFC staff who will evaluate these budgets
in the context of the farmers' credit applications. Government confirmed that
the Head of the LFMD has been appointed Project Coordinator.
4.12      Project Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 8).  The monitoring and
evaluation of previous credit projects has been haphazard, and has relied
on incidental monitoring and reporting carried out in individual districts,
together with an analysis of AFC's records. A proper evaluation of the
impact of such projects on participating farmers has therefore not been
possible. The Government is now placing greater emphasis on development
projects in small farm areas, and for this purpose has instituted a compre-
hensive national system for project monitoring and evaluation. As part
of this system, the Project would help the Ministry of Agriculture to estab-
lish a Project Evaluation Unit in its Economic Planning Division. This unit,
which would work in close cooperation with the Central Bureau of Statistics
(CBS), has been charged with the continuous evaluation of all on-going agri-
cultural development projects. This effort would be supported under the
proposed Project by the provision of additional staff for the Evaluation Unit
and for CBS; these staff would include Senior Statistical Officers (6),
Investigators (9), consultants and supporting staff; provision would also be
made for vehicles and equipment and for the operating costs of both. Details



- 15 -
are given in Annex 9, Table 9.   The Project Coordinator would ensure the
active support and cooperation of AFC in this effort.   Assurances were ob-
tained at negotiations that a detailed program for Project monitoring and
evaluation for the Unit would be prepared by June 1, 1977.
4.13       AFC.  As the Project would entail a major expansion of AFC's lend-
ing program, both in terms of the number of loans processed and the geograph-
ical area covered, the Project would include provision for the recruitment
of a Senior Credit Specialist (para. 5.04) and 33 additional Loan Officers;
provision would also be made for clerical staff, vehicles and equipment and
operating expenses. The timetable for the appointment of these staff is given
in Annex 9, Table 7.



- 16 -
C. Project Costs (Annex 9)
4.14      Total Project cost is estimated at K Sh 332 million (US$40 mil-
lion), of which K Sh 170 million (US$20.5 million) or 51% represents foreign
exchange requirements. Project costs are summarized below:
Foreign
K Sh '000                    US$ '000              Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total            %
Smallholders
Crops           15,135   10,090   25,225   1,823    1,216    3,039            40
Livestock       64,540   43,026  107,566   7,776    5,184   12,960            40
Farm
MIachinery      3,162   28,459   31,621       381    3,429    3.810          90
Subtotal       82,837   81,575  164,412   9,980    9,829   19,809            50
Mfedium-Scale
Farmers
Crops           29,528   19,686   49,214   3,558    2,372    5,930            40
Livestock Dev. 10,765    7,795   18,560   1,297          939    2,236         42
Farm
Machinery       2,007   18,066   20,073       242    2,177    2,419          90
Subtotal       42,300   45,547   87,847   5,097    5,488   10,585            52
Input
Suppliers        5,700    8,550   14,250        687    1,030    1,717         60
Technical
Assistance
MOA              4,085    4,085    8,170        492      493       985        50
AFC              3,114    5,784    8,898        375      697    1,072         65
Subtotal        7,199    9,869   17,068       867    1,190    2,057          58
Base Cost    138,036  145,541  283,577  16,631   17,537   34,168             51
Price Con-
tingencies      23,441   24,712   48,153   2,824    2,978    5,802            51
Total Project
Cost           161,477  170,253  331,730  19,455   20,515   39,970            51
Costs have been estimated at prices expected to prevail as of December 1976.
Price contingencies have been calculated at 8% per annum for the years 1977
to 1979 for both local and foreign currency costs. Except for taxes on
salaries and fuel, which are not significant, Project costs do not include
any taxes or duties.



- 17 -
D. Financing
4.15      The Project would be financed as follows:
US$ Million      % of Total Cost
IDA                                      20.0                 63
Bank-Third Window                         5.0
Farmers                                   7.7                 19
Government                                7.3                 18
Total                               40.0                100
The proposed IDA Credit to Government of US$20 million (K Sh 166 million)
would be on normal IDA terms; the Bank Loan of US$5 million (KSh 41.5 million)
would be on Third Window terms.1/ Together these would finance 63% of total
Project costs; this would include the total foreign exchange costs (US$20.5
million) and 23% of local costs (US$4.5 million). The Government would
provide the proceeds of the credit and loan relating to the lending program to
AFC at an annual interest rat-e of up to 5%, provided that the spread to AFC is
not less than 6%. These funds would not be repayable to Government, but
would be used by AFC to establish a revolving fund to finance AFC's farm
development lending to both smallhoidat and medium-scale cciamercial farmers.
Any repayments from outstanding smallholder loans would in turn be re-lent
specifically to smallholder farmers; likewise, repayments from loans to
medium-scale farmers would be re-lent to similar farming enterprises. Govern-
ment would undertake to replenish the fund to the level established under the
Project if for any reason outside AFC's control the fund should be drawn down.
AFC would lend to ultimate borrowers at an interest rate of not less than 11%
per annum for seasonal credit and 10% per annum for medium term loans. Funds
for technical assistance would be given to AFC as a grant. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the above terms and conditions would be fol-
lowed. In order to ensure the continuity of AFC's lending program. (as the
funds for the Second Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project have already been
committed and disbursed), and to ensure that farmers' seasonal crop input
requirements are fulfilled, it is recommended that retroactive financing of
US$1.5 million be approved from January 1, 1977.
E. Procurement
4.16      The items to be financed are varied and would not be suitable for
bulk procurement through international competitive bidding. However, there
1/   The Loan would be extended at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum; the
first repayment would be made on January 15, 1983, with a final maturity
date of January 15, 2001.



- 18 -
is adequate competition, both international and national, in offering goods
through the normal supply channels which buyers would use. Major producers
of farm machinery and fertilizers are represented in Kenya. Sales and after
sales services are adequate, supplies satisfactory and prices competitive.
Grade cows would be purchased from local sources and there are adequate
supplies of seeds. Procurement would, therefore, be through normal com-
mercial channels.
F. Disbursement
4.17      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over three and a half
years. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed on the basis of:
(a) 79% of the amounts disbursed by AFC under short and
medium term sub-loans; and
(b) 100% of foreign and 63% of local expenditures for
technical assistance.
Disbursements against (a) would be made against statements of expenditure
certified by AFC; these would be retained by AFC and made available to IDA
for inspection in the course of normal Project supervision. Disbursements
against (b) would be fully documented. An estimated schedule of IDA disburse-
ments is given in Annex 10. Any IDA funds remaining at the completion of the
Project would be cancelled.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.18      It was expected that all accounts would be programmed into the
newly installed computer by the end of 1974. However, due to technical
delays and a few initial problems, fully computerized accounts and billing
system should be available by the end of 1976. The accounts are presently
audited by the Nairobi Office of Coopers and Lybrand. Assurances would be
obtained at negotiations that AFC would continue to appoint independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts together with
the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of the fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MIANAGEMENT
5.01      The Project would be carried out by AFC with assistance from the
Land and Farm Management Division (LFMD) of the Department of Agriculture of
the Ministry of Agriculture. Project participants would be selected jointly
by AFC and LFMD field staff in liaison with District Agricultural Committees.
Smallholder selection would follow established AFC procedures; selection



- 19 -
criteria include: (i) a total land holding not exceeding 20 ha; (ii) farmers
must be capable of achieving production targets with advice or training; (iii)
a realistic farm budget; and (iv) credit worthiness with adequate
security for the loan. Similarly, the medium-scale commercial farmers whose
land holding exceeds 20 ha would have to demonstrate their capacity to develop
a viable enterprise following approved husbandry techniques under capable
management; loans would be made only to those farmers who put forward farm
investment plans acceptable to AFC. In addition, these farmers would have to
prove to AFC's satisfaction that they were unable to obtain credit elsewhere
on reasonable terms.
Ministry of Agriculture
5.02      The Land and Farm Management Division (LFMD) of the Ministry of
Agriculture would have major responsibility for the provision of agricultural
extension services to Project farmers. The extension service would be
responsible for the preparation of farm plans and loan applications, and for
the guidance of borrowers. These services would be carried out under the
direction of the Deputy Director of the Department of Agriculture who is
responsible for the planning and implementation of all extension activities.
The Project Coordinator would be directly responsible to the Deputy Director.
The Coordinator would be specifically charged with improving cooperation
between LFMD and AFC staff (para. 4.11), and with overseeing the data col-
lection carried out by the Evaluation Unit (para. 4.12). In addition to the
Project Coordinator, some 40 new staff would be provided under the Project
(para. 4.11) to enable LFMD to carry out the increased activities necessitated
by the expanded credit program.
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC)
5.03      AFC, acting through its 33 district branch offices, would be
responsible for Project implementation. The recent decentralization of
AFC's small scale lending operations has facilitated loan processing and
has led to a significant increase in lending volume. One notable improve-
ment was that, by allowing branch managers to approve loans up to K Sh 10,000,
the average loan processing period was reduced from four to two months. To
further speed up the processing and approval of small scale loans, AFC is
considering a further increase in the loan approval limit for branch managers
from K Sh 10,000 to K Sh 15,000. In addition, a new procedure is being
developed for smallholder seasonal credit whereby a farmer would obtain
a 3-year line of credit to be used on an annual basis; under this procedure,
however, credit for the second year would only be made available after the
first year's loan had been fully repaid. Seasonal credit for medium-scale
farmers would be part of the overall lending arrangement; such credit could
be made on an annual basis and would replace advances under the Guaranteed
Minimum Return Scheme. A total of 66 additional staff would be provided
under the Project (para. 4.13) to help AFC to handle the expanded credit
program made possible by the proposed Project.
5.04      As a channel for several large and small credit schemes, AFC's
attitude in extending credit has been largely security oriented, governed



- 20 -
by the availability of sufficient security to cover the loan. In general
it lends on a secured basis against mortgages on land and in certain instances
charges against movable property. AFC's staff therefore generally have a
lack of practical training in the technical evaluation of credit applications,
and this deficiency has hampered AFC from evolving into the development
institution it was originally intended to be. To overcome this weakness,
under the Project an Appraisal Department would be established within AFC.
The Project would include provision for the recruitment of an interna-
tionally qualified agricultural Senior Credit Specialist experienced in
appraisal of agricultural loans to serve as a training advisor to the new
Department. The Credit Specialist would train and assist local staff in the
evaluation of loan applications for the medium-scale farm credit component of
the Project; this exercise would be used as a pilot project to initiate the
Department in appraisal techniques. Thus it is expected that for the three-
year Project period, the department would concentrate on the evaluation of
credit applications from medium-scale farmers. The appointment of the Senior
Credit Specialist would be a condition of disbursement for the medium-scale
farm component.
5.05      AFC salary levels are between those used by the Government and
those prevailing in the private sector. The commercial banks which compete
with AFC in the labor market are free to set their own salary scales. AFC's
remuneration policy contributes to a higher turnover of local staff than
would be the case if competitive rates were offered, and prevents AFC from
obtaining the caliber of staff which it so badly needs. The revision of AFC's
salary scale to allow it to compete more effectively with other financial
institutions is essential if AFC is to be able to attract and retain the staff
which are vital to its long term success as a credit institution. Assurances
were obtained from Government that the salary structure of AFC's technical
personnnel will be reviewed and revised before the end of 1977.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FARMER BENEFITS
A. Production
6.01      The Project would enable farmers to increase their production
through a more intensive use of their lands, with resulting improvements in
yields. The actual cropping area is estimated to increase by about 2,000 ha
for smallholders, and by about 12,000 ha for medium-scale farmers. The improve-
ment in yields would result from use of selected seeds, fertilizer and pesti-
cides, better soil preparation for crops, and from introduction of grade cows,
improved poultry and pigs, combined with better husbandry standards. For
medium-scale farms the acquisition of farm machinery would be a major factor
in projected yield increases, as would the expansion of acreage under crops.
6.02      On the basis of improved yields and increased cropping area, the
estimated annual incremental Project production at full development would
include 35,000 tons of maize (rising from 30,000 tons to 65,000 tons), 10,000



- 21 -
tons of wheat (rising from 22,000 tons to 32,000 tons), 8,000 tons of pota-
toes (rising from 15,000 tons to 23,000 tons), 39 million litres of milk
(rising from 35 million litres to 74 million litres), and 12 million eggs. In
addition there would be smaller quantities of cotton, pyrethrum, beef, poultry
and bacon. It should be emphasized however, that the quantities produced of
each depend to a larger degree on the price relationships between commodities.
As these prices are subject to change, the quantities produced would tend
to reflect the change in prices.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 11)
Markets
6.03      The Maize and Produce Board (MPB) is a statutory board which markets
over 38 varieties of produce, including maize, several types of beans,
oilseeds, millet and a few other minor crops. It is vested with "monopoly"
powers for marketing these commodities in the sense that all movements
exceeding 2 bags of maize across district boundaries or exceeding 10 bags
within district boundaries must be marketed through an agent of MPB.  Even
then, on average it handles less than 15% of the total maize crop. As of
June 1975, MPB had 38 depots for storing grain at various locations in
Kenya and made use of about 3,800 agents for buying and selling the grain.
Nevertheless, a farmer is allowed to deliver his crop directly to MPB if
he so desires. The margin allowed for the traders is fixed by MPB.
6.04      During the last twenty years, due to population growth and improved
living standards, demand for wheat production in Kenya has increased steadily,
making wheat the second most important cereal after maize. Production in-
creases over the past few years have not been able to keep up with rising
demand, and the resulting supply deficit has been met by imports; these had a
total foreign exchange cost of K Sh 10.5 million between 1972 and 1974. In an
attempt to reduce this foreign exchange drain, Government in 1974 imposed
wheat rationing on local mills, thereby controlling foreign purchases.
Government had undertaken several steps in the past few years to encourage
expanded domestic wheat production, the most important of which have been
price incentives and improved availability of credit to wheat farmers.
6.05      The lack of adequate transport and storage facilities in the
more remote areas constitutes a constraint on the marketing of several crops.
This is particularly true in the case of potatoes, where storage facilities
are inadequate and spoilage is a threat if potatoes are not marketed shortly
after harvest. Dairy producers in more remote areas have difficulty in
obtaining transport of evening's milking, since milk pick-up is usually
once daily in the morning. The Horticultural Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture, supported by IADP financing, is planning the construction of
potato warehouses in the heavy producing regions, and this should signifi-
cantly alleviate the present problem. The Danish Government, in cooperation



- 22 -
with Kenyan Cooperative Creameries and the Ministry of Agriculture, has a
program for providing refrigerated cooling centers for the collection of milk
so as to hold the evening milk of dairy producers now lacking facilities.
AFC can provide credit to groups of farmers desiring to purchase these holding
tanks. Credit is also available for the purchase of farm vehicles, ox-carts
and both conventional sized and small farm tractors, which would help to
alleviate transport problems both on-farm and within remote rural areas.
Prices
6.06      Since the 1960's, Government policy with regard to maize and wheat
has been to gradually adjust domestic prices so as to achieve export parity
levels. This policy has thus far been successful in the case of hybrid
maize, but somewhat less so in the case of wheat. Maize prices have shown a
steady increase over the last few years; prices per 90 kg bag have increased
from K Sh 25 in 1969 to K Sh 65 per bag in 1975, an overall increase of 160%
over the 1969 price. Farmgate prices differ between provinces due to variations
in transportation costs to MPB stores and other costs. However, on the
average the farmgate price is about 76% of the into-store price of MPB at the
railhead. Unofficial prices, especially in isolated areas, can differ signifi-
cantly from official M4aize and Produce Board prices.  Producer prices for
wheat have shown a steady increase from 1970 to 1975, rising from K Sh 46.7 to
K Sh 100 per 90 kg bag; wheat prices are, however, still slightly below export
parity prices. Milk prices fixed by the Government have proved to be attrac-
tive and this has led to a rapid expansion in the number of grade cows.
Farmers consider milk as a good source of quick cash income without the long
delays experienced in other sectors. The price of milk relative to that of
other agricultural commodities is favorable, but the Government has to some
extent corrected these differentials by raising most food crop prices. Indi-
cations are that in the future the relative prices of these commodities will
be maintained.
Farmer Benefits
6.07      Three farm models were developed representing the most common
smallholder farming systems in the main farming areas covered by the Project.
Each model covers an ecological zone differentiated according to altitude,
rainfall and soil condition. They are:
(Model A) - Central and Eastern Provinces;
(Modal B) - Rift Valley, Western and Nyanza Provinces; and
(Mode, C) - Coastal Areas.



- 23 -
The results are summarized below (numbers have been rounded for convenience):
(K Sh)
(A)         (B)         (C)
Pre-Project Farm Income 1/            1,900      2,500       1,600
At Full Development (year 4):
Farm income                      5,100      7,200       4,400
Cash surplus 2/                  2,900      3,500       3,600
Incremental Farm Income               3,200      4,700       2,800
% increase in Farm Income               270%       290%        275%
Financial Rate of Return                  59%      42%          64%
In addition rates of return were computed for a poultry unit (325 laying
hens), a pig unit (5 sows) and a tractor unit (tractor, plough and trailer);
these rates of return were 69%, 19% and 15% respectively.
6.08      Development of the medium-scale holdings was represented by two
models in which wheat and maize are the major crops. Each model was based
on an intensification of production on existing areas in addition to an
increase in production acreage through conversion of fallow land to crops.
The results are summarized below (numbers have been rounded for convenience):
K Sh
Model I            Model II
(Wheat)            (Maize)
Pre-Project:  Farm income           35,600             34,200
Cash surplus          8,700              7,300
At full development (year 4):
Farm income          74,600             78,000
Cash surplus         30,800             34,300
Incremental farm income             39,000             43,800
% increase                           210%               230%
Financial Rate of Return              30%                32%
1/   Farm income represents the difference between gross revenue and expenses.
2/   Cash surplus represents the balance of cash left after debt service.



- 24 -
6.09      Accurate data on the net employment resulting from the Project
are not available. However, increased labor requirements for farm exploi-
tation would increase working hours for labor already employed and would
also provide opportunities for additional employment; requirements for on-
_r-Tuseasonal labor would be significantly increased during the planting
and harvesting seasons. Medium-scale farms would require part-time labor
for planting and harvesting of increased wheat, maize, rapeseed and sunflower
production; this incremental labor requirement would total about 500 man
months per annum. It is assumed that increased crop production on smallholder
farms would require some additional seasonal labor for planting and harves-
ting, although family labor would take care of most of the incremental labor
required (particularly for the dairy operations); the additional labor re-
quirement for smallholders is estimated at approximately 120 man months per
annum.
6.10      The average pre-Project per capita farm income of smallholders to
be assisted under the Project is about K Sh 800 (US$96). This includes income
from other cash crops (such as coffee) which are not financed under the
Project. The poverty income level in Kenya is about K Sh 650 (US$78) per
capita; thus the smallholder farmers extended credit under the Project
enjoy an income which is slightly above the poverty level, but are still
within the group most in need of development assistance.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The proposed Project would finance an additional three years of
AFC's ongoing lending program; it would provide credit for some 18,000 small-
holder farmers, as well as for about 500 medium-scale farmers who would not
otherwise be able to obtain finance on reasonable terms. The credit would
allow these farmers to increase total production and incomes through a more
intensive use of their land with the proper use of selected seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides; it would also provide support for the development of dairy
enterprises, pig and poultry units and for the purchase of farm machinery.
Technical assistance provided under the Project would substantially strengthen
the ability of AFC to design and implement a viable credit program; it is
expected that with the establishment of the Appraisal Department within AFC,
the institution would develop the ability to evaluate individual farm plans
and would begin to evolve into the development institution it was originally
intended to be.
7.02      The major quantifiable benefits arising from the Project would
be increased production of maize (35,000 tons), wheat (10,000 tons), potatoes
(8,000 tons), rapeseed (6,000 tons), beans (2,000 tons), milk (39 million
litres) and eggs (12 million). The farm models developed for both small-
holders and medium-scale farmers show that incremental farm income attributable
to the Project would be substantial. Smallholder incomes under all three
models would more than double (e.g. - 2Iodel A shows an increase from K Sh
1,862 to K Sh 5,131; and Model C from K Sh 1,625 to 4,404). Medium-scale
farms would show an average increase of slightly over 100% under both the



- 25 -
wheat and maize models; wheat farms would show an increase in farm income
from K Sh 35,560 to K Sh 74,551 and maize farms an increase from K Sh 34,238
to K Sh 77,994.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis (Annex 12)
7.03      The overall economic rate of return for the Project over twenty
years would be 37%. This relatively high rate of return can be attributed in
part to the fact that those farmers who would participate in the Project are
commercially oriented farmers who given access to an assured source of credit,
would be able to achieve substantial increases in production. In this analy-
sis foreign exchange costs (including technical assistance) and benefits were
shadow priced at US$1 = K Sh 10 (as compared with the present rate of US$1 = K
Sh 8.3) to more adequately reflect the value of foreign exchange to Kenya. It
was assumed that cotton and pyrethrum would be exported, and that wheat,
rapeseed and sunflower would represent import substitutes. The net foreign
exchange effect of this assumption would be negative in the early years, but
would eventually result in a modest saving to the economy. All labor costs
were valued at the prevailing wage rates which are assumed to reflect the
economic costs of this type of semi-skilled labor. In this analysis, pro-
jected 1981 international prices for wheat and rapeseed were used; current
local prices were used for all other commodities.
7.04.     In view of AFC's extensive experience with smallholder credit, and
the fact that all AFC loans are secured, there would appear to be no serious
risks attached to the implementation of the Project. The rate of return would
be somewhat sensitive to changes in the basic parameters. A 10% increase in
investment costs would reduce the return by 5% to 32% and a 10% increase in
all costs would decrease the return by 10% to 27%. A 10% decrease in yields or
prices would reduce the rate of return by 11% to 26%.
VIII. AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal points.
(a)  14edium term credit for smallholders would be extended for
5 years at an interest rate of not less than 10% per annum
and seasonal credit would be extended for 1 year at an
interest rate of not less than 11% per annum. For seasonal
credit, a maximum of K Sh 20,000 would be made available
to any one farmer. Farmers would be required to make a
20% contribution toward the total finance requirement;
however, family labor would be valued as part of the
individual's contribution (para. 4.03).



- 26 -
(b) Medium term loans to medium-scale farmers would be
extended for 5 year at an interest rate of not less than
10% per annum and seasonal credit would be extended for
1 year at an interest rate of not less than 11% per annum.
A maximum of K Sh 150,000 would be made available to any
one farmer. Farmers would be required to make a contri-
bution of 25% of the total finance requirement (para. 4.09).
(c) Loans to input suppliers would be extended for up to a
three year period at an interest rate of not less than 10%
per annum; loans would be secured by a lien against the
suppliers' stock (para 4.10).
(d) A detailed program for Project monitoring and evaluation
would be prepared by June 1, 1977 (para. 4.12).
(e)  Government would provide the proceeds of the IDA credit
and the Bank loan relating to the lending program to AFC
at an annual interest rate of up to 5%, provided that the
spread to AFC is not less than 6%. These funds would not
be repayable to Government, but would be used by AFC to
establish a revolving fund to finance AFC's farm develop-
ment lending to both smallholder and medium-scale commer-
cial farmers. Any repayments from outstanding smallholder
loans would in turn be re-lent specifically to smallholder
farmers; likewise repayments from loans to medium-scale
farmers would be re-lent to similar farming enterprises.
Government would undertake to replenish the fund to the
level established under the Project if for any reason
outside AFC's control the fund should be drawn down. AFC
would lend to ultimate borrowers at an interest rate of
not less than 10% per annum for medium term loans and 11%
per annum for seasonal credit. Funds for technical
assistance would be given to AFC as a grant (para 4.15).
(f) AFC would continue to appoint independent auditors accept-
able to IDA and the audited accounts together with
the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 4.18).
(g) The salary structure of AFC's technical personnel will
be reviewed and revised before the end of 1977 (para
5.05).
8.02      A condition of disbursement for the medium-scale farm credit
component would be the appointment of the Senior Credit Specialist for
AFC's Appraisal Department (para. 5.04).
8.03      The proposed Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$20
million and a Third Window loan of US$5 million to the Government of
Kenya.



ANNEX I
Page  1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Sector
General
1.        Agriculture continues to constitute the most important single
sector of the Kenyan economy, accounting for over 60% of the country's for-
eign exchiange. In 1974 nearly 32.4% of the gross domestic product (GDP)
at 1964 constant prices was derived from this sector (Table 1). The per-
centage contribution of agriculture to Kenya's GDP has been declining steadily,
from 39% in 1964 to 32% in 1974. Other sectors, most notably Government,
manufacturing and tourism increased in relative importance as measured in 1964
constant price (Table 2). Within agriculture, the non-monetary sector has
decreased in importance as more farmers and cattle owners enter the cash
economy. However, with a share of 17.7% in GDP, the non-monetary sector of
agriculture remains the single most important contributor, followed by the
Government, and the monetary sector of agriculture.
2.        A large part of Kenya is suitable for agriculture, but out of a
total area of 58.3 million hectares, only about 4.1 million ha are presently
cultivated. It is estimated that some 8 million additional ha are
suitable for agricultural purposes. Kenya may be broadly divided into
three climatic regions: one north of the equator with a hot, dry climate
and average rainfall of less than 500 mm per annum; the coastal region with
hot and damp climate and annual rainfall about 1,250 mm; and the highlands
(a plateau with altitude ranging from 1,000 m to 3,300 m with annual rain-
fall varying from 1,000 to 2,500 mm. Agriculture is mainly concentrated in the
southern region, the highlands being especially suitable for dairying and
general agriculture. Although irrigation plays only a minor role in Kenyan
agriculture, with an area under irrigation representing less than 0.2% of
the cultivated area, recent surveys indicate that some areas would need
irrigation to boost agricultural production. The proposed Bura Irrigation
Project is designed in recognition of this need. The Rural Water Supply
Projects will also include a small component of water for agricultural devel-
opment.
3.        Because of geographic and climatic variations, numerous farm com-
modities are produced giving Kenya opportunities for diversification in
agriculture. The principal export products are coffee, tea, sisal, beef
and pyrethrum, and the major food products marketed domestically are maize,
wheat, sugar, livestock and dairy products. Maize is the main subsistence
crop, followed by pulses, cassava, millet and bananas in some areas.
4.        The development of smallholder agriculture in Kenya has shown
outstanding results, particularly in the production of tea, coffee and dairy
farming. This momentum of development had been somewhat dampened by weather
and external economic factors in the first half of the 1970's, but recent



ANNEX 1
Page 2
progress seems to indicate a reversal of this trend. One key factor has been
the adoption of hybrid maize by smallholders; this had grown from 10% in 1968
to about 50% in 1975, resulting in a sustained increase in maize production.
The problem that Kenya now faces is the increasing difficulty of developing
smnallholder agriculture in marginal and drier areas. The Government's effort
to mitigate this problem is reflected in the recently negotiated Integrated
A-riculture Development Project. This project deals in a specific way w-ith
the development of institutional support for agriculture with special atten-
tion given to the question of whether existing credit, marketing, and exten-
sion services can be effectively adapted to meet the growing needs of the
small farmers.
Population and Employment
D.        It is estimated that Kenya's population is growing at about 3.4%
per annum, and reached 13.4 million in 1975. The population is unevenly dis-
tributed, as better farm land is found in only a few relatively small areas.
In 1969, the most densely settled provinces were Nyanza, Western and Central;
these areas which had only 6% of the country's land area, contained 47% of the
total popu;ation. The population density in these provinces averaged 151
persons/km-. At the other extreme, 'North-Eastern Province which included 22%/'
of the count5y's land area had only 2% of the population, giving a density of
' persons/km.
6.        Wage employment in industrial and commercial sectors has grown at
4% Per annum over the past 10 years and continues to absorb only a small pro-
portion of the labor force (about 826,000 persons in 1974). As a result of
the limited employment opportunities offered by the wage sector, most new
entrants to the labor force seek work in traditional agriculture. Over 80%O
of the population live in rural areas and depend largely upon agriculture
for livelihood. On average between 1972 and 1975, 46% of the recorded wage
employment (Table 2) was in this sector. But the high rate of population
increase is outstripping the absorptive capacity of subsistence agricul-
ture, and there is widespread rural unemployment and migration to the
urban areas. These trends are likely to persist unless appropriate steps
are taken to correct them. The proposed Project is intended in part to assist
in increasing employment opportunities through the stimulation of production
of cash crops, thereby helping to curb the population influx into urban
areas.
Agricultural Policy
7.        Kenya's development strategy aims at increasing agricultural pro-
duction with emphasis on processing and agro-allied industries. The country
has launched a program, implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture in col-
laboration with the Ministry of Finance and Planning, which emphasizes a
reduced dependency on imports and the channeling of increased resources into
exports and domestic resource-based production. To attain this objective,



ANNEX 1
Page 3
the Government has taken action to (a) improve income distribution in rural
areas by enabling the transformation of the small farmer from subsistence
to commercial farming; (b) adopt measures for better land distribution and
utilization; (c) increase rural employment opportunities especially in the
agricultural sector; (d) raise productivity in high potential areas for
import substitution purposes so as to raise marketable surplus by 6.7%
annually; (e) reduce or control the influx of population to urban areas;
and (f) to improve nutrition standards especially in rural areas.
8.        The 1974-78 Development Plan particularly focuses on crops and
projects of importance to smallholders. It places major emphasis on more
intensive land use with the highest priority being given to development
schemes aimed at assisting a large number of small farmers to increase pro-
duction. During 1976 pilot development schemes for marginal areas will also
be initiated. Large farms and plantations will continue to operate as large
scale units for the foreseeable future; these will make a major contribution
to the provision of supplies of products such as wheat, sugar, hybrid maize
seed and will help to maintain breeding herds of livestock. In all these
instances there are advantages in production on a large-scale basis. Irri-
gation and soil conservation are also receiving additional emphasis.
9.        In order to sustain agricultural production (and hence economic
growth) it will be necessary to increase domestic food production, intensify
import substitution and adopt an aggressive export promotion program. More-
over, by offering adequate price incentives which will allow reasonable lev-
els of net farm income the Government can influence private investment and
production in the agricultural sector, including smallholder production.
In addition, in order to effectively realize projected net incomes, farmers
depend to a large extent on Government agencies to provide them with the right
packages of farm inputs (e.g. fertilizers, insecticides, selected seeds,
extension services, and marketing and distribution) at the right time.
Farmers also look up to Government sponsored institutions such as AFC and the
cooperatives for credit to finance farm improvements, equipment and seasonal
needs.
Rural Development Institutions
10.       The overall development planning is the responsibility of the
.linistry of Finance and Planning. The Government is committed to the prin-
ciple of district development planning and it has therefore long been recog-
nized that to implement the rural strategy defined above (para 7) requires
effective institutions geared to tackle problems associated with rural com-
munities. A Special Rural Development Program (SRDP) was, therefore, started
in 1970/ 71 on an experimental basis to test the rural development strategies
at the District level. Six experimental areas were chosen and a variety of
agricultural pilot projects were introduced including credit for farmers
and traders, stock farm inputs, livestock marketing, extension staff training,
family planning, functional literacy and rural access roads. The SRDP
laid the foundation for the establishment of District Development Commit-
tees which are to be the mainstay of Kenya's rural development program.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.       A District Development Committee (DDC) is composed of representa-
tives of various bodies concerned with rural development, chaired by a Dis-
trict Commissioner. Its purpose is to ensure that District Development
Plans reflect the priorities and needs of the local people and to coordinate
different sectoral development proposals into a well-balanced and integrated
plan at district level. The day-to-day work of the DDC is administered
by a District Development Officer (DDO) who plays an important role in the
preparation of the District Plan and in coordinating development projects with
the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP). So far, 16 DDO's have been
appointed and most of them cover more than one district. Every district
will eventually have a DDO who will play an important role in preparing
a district rural program, which will be forwarded to the Ministry of Finance
and Planning for consideration in formulating the National Development Plan.
12.       As a means of financing rural development programs, a Rural Devel-
opment Fund was created in 1974/75 in the Ministry of Finance and Planning
to implement two rural development programs under the control of DDC's --
the District Development Grants and the Rural Work Program. The main pur-
pose of the system of District Development Grants is to encourage DDC's to
identify and fill gaps in the sectoral program financed centrally through
the operating ministries. The Rural Works Program (RWP) was started in 1974
as a follow-up to the ILO Mission Report on "Employment, Incomes and Equal-
ity, a Strategy for Increasing Productive Employment in Kenya." Its purpose
is to help implement labor-intensive rural development projects selected by
DDCs, such as minor irrigation projects, soil conservation, bush clearance
and minor road construction.
Land Reorganization
13.       Before Independence, the agricultural market sector was dominated
by large-scale holdings generally operated by Europeans. Recently, most of
these holdings have been transferred to Africans either intact or subdivided
(Table 3). Considerable efforts have been made to develop smallholder agri-
culture in the traditional farming areas, especially through encouraging the
production of high value export crops such as coffee, tea and pyrethrum,
and through introducing hybrid maize and improved cattle. As a result of
these developments, small-scale farms now produce about 50% of total mar-
keted agricultural production. The registration program has now been virtually
completed in the main agricultural areas.
14.       Within the land reorganization scheme some settlement projects,
specific both in locality and purpose, have been implemented by the Ministries
of Agriculture, and Lands and Settlement. To date approximately 35,000
families have been so settled in 128 schemes; these include 35 low density
schemes, with plots ranging from 10-20 ha; 79 high density schemes, with
plots ranging from 6-10 ha; and 14 cooperative schemes operating large-scale
units with 50-100 members each. Settlement schemes generally operate as
independent units, with the parent Ministry providing extension services,
input supply and credit; close coordination is maintained with the Ministry
of Agriculture and the Department of Cooperatives in the extension of these
functions.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Agricultural Production
15.       The value of farm production has grown in the last few years as
shown by an increase in marketed production (Table 4). 1974-75 showed a
slight growth in crop production despite a decline in beef and dairy production.
Unusual rainfall patterns in 1975 influenced maize production favorably, but
resulted in a reduction in wheat production. At the same time below average
precipitation during the long rains season adversely affected the cattle and
dairy industries.
17.       Between 1970 and 1975 the value of total production of major crops
has shown an increase by about 50.1% from Kb 58.5 million to Kb 116.9 million
(Table 4). Permanent cash crops (coffee, sisal, tea, coconut products,
wattle and cashew nuts) which are mainly for export, represent by far the
largest group of commercial crops, comprising 56% of the total in 1975. The
share of industrial crops (pineapples, castor and other oilseeds, pyrethrum,
sugar cane, tobacco and cotton) has also shown a steady increase, reaching
a share of 13.2% in 1975. The value of production of cereals (wheat, maize,
barley, rice) and other food crops such as potatoes and pulses increased from
Kb 9.0 million to Kb 29.1 million over this period and represented nearly 25%
of the total agricultural marketable production.
18.       Table 4 also shows the production trends of the major crops since
1970, as well as their relative importance. With the exception of wheat and
cotton, production of all crops increased, although this increase is quite
small in the case of sugar cane and sisal. Production of tea, coffee and
pyrethrum increased markedly, mostly as a result of greater efforts by small-
holders and the incentives provided by higher prices. Sisal output recovered
in 1973 and 1974 in response to higher world market prices. These have now
come down to the pre-1973 levels, and production of sisal is expected to
continue its gradual decline.
19.       Agriculture also makes a significant contribution to Kenya's
export earnings. Table 5 indicates that in 1970 exports of agricultural
crops accounted for almost 62% of total export earnings. This share
declined to 54% in 1975. The economy is becoming more diversified, and
this is indicated by the falling share of agriculture in total exports fol-
lowing an increase in exports of petroleum products.
20.       Livestock and related products (Table 6) play a dominant role in
commercial farming, especially in small and medium scale holdings. In 1970,
the value of total production was Kb 23.3 million; this rose by 55% to an
estimated Kb 36.1 million in 1975. Beef cattle constitute the largest share
of the livestock population, followed by dairy cows, poultry and pigs.
October 8, 1976



AtZ I..". ,-I
Table l
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product 1972-1975 (at 1972 Constant Prices)
Value (KSIh million)                           Percentage
1972     1973      1974      1975*    1972       1973      1974      1975*
A.  Outside Monetary Economy                          2,931.4   2,944.4  3,033.2  3,067.4   22.0         20.9      20.7      20.8
of which Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing   2,316.2   2,306.4  2,377.0  2,388.6   17.4             16.4      16.2      16.2
B. Monetary Economy
1.  Enterprises and Non-Project Institutions, 8,147.0   8,815.8  9,019.4  8,945.6   61.1             62.7      61.6      60.7
of which Agriculture                        1,887.2   1,934.4  1,923.0  1,903.2   14.2          13.8      13.1      12.9
Forestry                              71.0       79.2      89.0     89.0    0.5        0.6       0.6       0.6
Fishing                               25.2       23.4      22.2      23.4    0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2
2.  Private Households (Domestic Services)          102.4      113.8    129.0    148.4    0.8         0.8       0.9       1.0
3.  Government                                    2,143.6   2,199.2  2,459.2  2,582.2   16.1         15.6      16.8      17.5
TOTAL Gross Product at Factor Cost  13,324.4  14,066.0 14,640.8 14,743.6  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
(Monetary and Non-Monetary)
* Provisional.
Source: Economic Survey 1976, Table 2.4.
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 2
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Wage Employment By Major Sector, 1972-75
(In Thousands)
1972    1973    1974    1975*
Agriculture and Forestry                                     197.9   220.6   213.7   195.3
Mining and Quarrying                                           2.7      2.4      3.1     2.6
Manufacturing                                                 67.1    73.3    81.7    80.6
Construction                                                  23.4    23.7    27.3    23.5
Trade, Restaurants and Hotels                                 46.0    44.7    55.4    48.4
Transport and Communication                                   18.1    16.6    17.6    16.4
Financing, Insurance, Real Estate and Business Services    14.8    17.1    18.7    19.8
Community, Social and Personal Services                       62.9    64.1    76.7    82.1
TOTAL                                       432.8   462.4   496.2   468.7
Share of agriculture (percentages)           52.7    47.7    43.1    41.7
* Provisional.
Source: Economic Survey, 1976, Table 5.2.
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 3
KENYA
T'HIRD AGRICULTUTJAL CREnrr PRCJECT
Land Registration and Adiudication
(As at 31st ecember, 1974)
Registered Areas          Area Adjudicated           Area in which adjudicationi is                   Total Land Registered Adjudicated
but not adjudicated                                            in progress                                   or under Adjudication
'000           000           000 000 000                                                             '000              . of Total
Holdings        lectares     Holdings        Hectares               Hectares                            Hectares       Registrable Land
NYANZA -
Kisumu                                     17.1            21.4           9.5           36.0                   42.0                                99.4               72.3
Siaya                                      46.9            81.5          59.4           47.8                   87.4                               216.7               87.4
Iisii                                     134.3           172.8          10.2           19.1                     -                                191.9              100.0
South NYan2a                              41.3            160.8           1.9           28.0                  118.0                               314.8               57.8
T0TA1L                               - 39 .6          44. 5           81.0         130.9                   2-4       _
WESTERN -
Kakamega                                  164.3           241.8           4.7           11.4                     8.2                               261.4              98.5
Buagana                                    36.8           179.4           3.5           13.4                     5.0                               197.8              93.2
Busia                       31.0           ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~138.7  5.5  9.016.
TOTAL                                  232.1          538599          137 73 3_.8*, 
RIFT VALLEY -
Kericho                                    31.5           127.6           4.5           49.7                    41.7                               219.0              88.3
Nandi                                      17.2            91.7           4.2           17.3                    176                               1?6.6              S3.1
Elgeyo Marakwet                            10.9            65.0            -             -                     41.8                               ;06.8               55.1
Baringo                                     7.3            78.3           1.4            6.0                   23.5                               107.8               11.0
Kajiado                                     2.3           876.3           0.1          204.5                   329.9                             1,410.7              83.8
Narok **                                    0.1           354.1            -            25.2                   274.7                               654.0              40.6
West Pokot                                  -               -                            -                     101.7                               101.7              21.7
Laikipia +                                                                 -             -                      69.0                                69.0               87.3
Sarmburu                                                                   -             -                    286.7                               286.7               16.4
_TOTAL                                 69.3         1,593.0          10.2          302.7              -1,186.6                               3.082.3               43.0
CENTRAL -
Nyeri                                      43.9            79.6            -             -                      -                                   79.6              100.0
Murang'a                                   99.4           153.9            _                                                                       153.9              100.0
Kiambu                                     39.4            96.4            -             -                      _                                   96.4              100.0
Ririnyaga                                 28.1             88.8           1.2            4.2                    -                                   93.0              97.4
TOTAL                                 2084.71.2                                       4.                     -                                  422.9              9.
EASTERN -
Embu                                       43.3            64.8           6.1           40.2                    85.3                               190.1               76.5
Meru                                       57.2           135.6          18.8           42.0                   122.3                               299.9               45.2
Machakos                                   16.3            96.6           4.4           79.2                   346.9                               522.7               70.1
Nitui **                                    1.1             4.8            -            28.9                    48.                                 82.1               314
TOTAL                                 117.9           301.8           29.3          190.3                  602.9                             1.094 8               34.4
COAST -
TYita                                       8.0             8.3           1.7            1.1                     9.2                                18.6               10.5
Kwale                                       7.7            68.2           0.8            2.3                    74.9                               145.0               26.6
Kilifi                                      2.1             6.1           1.6            8.4                    47.5                                62.0                8.9
TOTAL                                   17.8            82.6           4.1           11.8                  131.6                               226.0               15.9
ALL PROVINCES                               887.5         3,400.5         139.5          673.7                 2,190.4                            6.264.4                44.9
*    All former "trust" land.
*    I ln Narok and Kitui only one holding was adjudicated.
+   In Laikipia "trust" land accounts for only 8% of the area of the district.
SOURCE:  Economic Survey, 1975 (Table 8.21).



ANNEX 1
Table 4
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Gross Marketed Production by Commodity, 1970-75
(KSh million)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975*
Cereals:
Wheat                                              99.8      104.1       83.2      77.3      138.5      165.5
Maize                                              56.6       85.5      145.0     171.4      169.6      340.4
Barle)                                              7.8        8.7        9.5      19.5       23.0       33.2
Rice                                               14.5       14.5       17.2      18.1       19.5       39.9
Other Cereals                                       1.2        2.0        4.1       3.5        2.6        2.8
Sub-Total                                      180.0     214.9      259.1      289.8      353.2      581.9
Temporary Industrial Crops:
Castor and other oil seeds:                        11.1        8.0        5.4       4.7        9.9       13.6
Pineapples                                          4.8        5.9        6.5        8.2       7.7       10.4
Pyrethrum                                          29.5       48.5       73.2      65.2       84.1       87.7
Sugar Cane                                         70.2       69.1       60.8      89.1      118.3      164.6
Tobacco                                             0.7        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.7        1.7
Cotton                                             13.9       17.6       19.6      19.7       23.3       31.0
Sub-Total                                      130.3     149.6      166.2      187.4      244.0      309.0
Other Temporary Crops:
Pulses                                              4.7        6.1       15.1        8.3      20.5       23.6
Potatoes                                           25.3       33.0       34.5      31.0       42.4       48.8
Other Temporary Crops                              24.9       30.8       35.5      31.9       44.1       50.8
Sub-Total                                       54.9       69.9      85.0       71.3      107.1      123.2
Permanent Crops:
Coffee                                            436.3      378.4    4I3.t       655.4      7n6.5      hh1.2
Sisal                                              34.3       30.4       37.2     141.0      367.0      140.8
Tea                                               276.8      236.1      320.7     335.3      385.1      458.3
Coconut products                                   10.4       10.9       11.4       10.3      10.8       11.9
Wattle                                              8.4        8.5       10.6        9.4        9.4        7.4
Cashew nuts                                        23.7       18.9       12.8       17.2      19.2       21.2
Fruits and other Permanent Crops                   14.9       20.5       21.6       19.4       24.1       22.5
Sub-Total                                      804.8      703.6     897.6   1,188.1   1,522.2   1,323.2
TOTAL Crops                              1,170.0   1,138.1   1,407.8   1,736.6   2,226.5   2,337.3
* Provisional.
Source:  Economic Survey, 1976, Table 8.1.                                              February 16, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 5
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Exports of Major Commodities, 1970-1975
(In KSh Million and % Shares in Total Value)
Value (KSh Million)                                       % Shares
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975          1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
Coffee                       446    390    496    716    768    706          21.6   18.2   20.1   22.5   17.7   17.3
Tea                          264    244    210    340    388    460          12.8   11.4   13.4   10.7    8.9   11.3
Meat                          64      80    104      78      94    102        3.1    3.7    4.2    2.4    2.2    2.5
Sisal                         38      30     42      96    340    148         1.8    1.4    1.7    3.0    7.8    3.6
Other Agricultural Goods   466    528    682    984  1,000    790            22.6   24.6   27.6   30.9   23.1   19.3
Total Agriculture          1,278  1,272  1,534  2,214  2,590  2,206          61.9   59.3   67.0   69.5   59.7   54.0
Petroleum                    276    302    306    2821/ 8701/ 948 1/   13.4   14.1   12.4    8.8   20.1   23.2
Manufactured Goods           508    568    628    692    876    932          24.6   26.5   20.6   21.7   20.2   22.8
Crad Tctal                 2,0622   2,1/9  9546   3,188  6,33fl6  __8A      inn.n  inn n  lnn n   inn n  ifiif n on.n
1/ These figures are from the IMF Balance of Payments Summary for Kenya. They do not include exports of
petroleum products for aircraft and ships.
Source: Kenya Statistical Abstract 1975, Monthly Trade Statistics for Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya, December 1975.
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 6
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock and Products 1970-1975
1970      1971    1972    1973    1974    1975*
Cattle and Calves                                      13,324    13,330  16,510  16,353  17,610  19,827
Sheep,  Goats and Lambs                                   475        733      825      795   1,137   1,339
Pigs                                                      750        593      631      651     728      856
Poultry and Eggs                                          998      1,032   1,207   1,360   1,104   1,597
Wool                                                      346        220      205      503     480      252
Hides and Skins                                           604        841   1,170   1,205   1,298   1,461
Dairy Products                                          6,806      9,300  10,890  11,305  10,100  10,781
TOTAL                                          23,303    26,049  31,438  32172  32,457  36,_113
* Provisional.
Source: Economic Survey, 1976
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture Supporting Services Training Facilities
A. General
1         Since the creation of a separate Ministry for Water Development
ii 1974, the Ministry of Agriculture has consisted of two departments and
oie division: the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Veterinary
S rvices and the Economic Planning Division. The heads of these three
o-ganizations are directly responsible to the Permanent Secretary of the
M'nistry of Agriculture. The Department of Agriculture is responsible for
iaplementing policy and promoting agricultural production throughout the
c)untry, while the Department of Veterinary Services concentrates solely
oi the provision of health and breeding facilities for livestock. The
E onomic Planning Division is a supporting organization for both of
tiese technical divisions; it acts as the main link with the Ministry
o- Finance and Planning, and is responsible for all economic and develop-
mint planning matters related to agriculture.
2         The Department of Agriculture has six technical divisions:  Crop
P-oduction, Animal Production, Range Management, Livestock Marketing, Land
aid Farm Management, and Scientific Research.
3         A Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) was appointed in April 1976;
tie DDA is responsible for the planning and organization of the extension
srvice, and for training. He liaises directly with the Provincial Directors
of Agriculture (PDA's) who are responsible for the effectiveness of the
ectension service in their areas.
B. Extension Services
4         The work of agricultural extension involves most of the technical
d'visions within the Ministry. The Ministry of Agriculture headquarters
ii Nairobi is responsible for overall policy decision and administration
aid maintains regular liaison with provincial offices. Field operations
a-e directed from a provincial level and organized and coordinated on a
dLstrict basis.
5         Within the limits set by Government policy, the provincial exten-
s on services have a high degree of autonomy, with District and Provincial
Agricultural Committees largely responsible for formulating development



ANNEX 2
Page 2
programs. In the past this has led to the emergence of some differences in
approach. However, these differences are expected to be minimized in the
future by means of expanded liaison between staff in various areas. The Land
and Farm Management Division (LFMD) will in the future play an increasingly
important role in the coordination of extension efforts.
6.        At Provincial, District and Divisional levels, the extension staff
are generally specialized, and the LFMD officers at each level have the
opportunity of coordinating these skills into a cohesive service of greater
value to farmers. The Department of Veterinary Services also provides
veterinary officers who liaise with the field offices of the Department of
Agriculture.
7.        At the District level the liaison between specialist extension
officers is generally effective. However, for various organizational reasons
the liaison with the farmers frequently has fallen short of the potential
obtainable with present levels of staffing. The main reasons for this have
been:
(a) A lack of effective communication due both to inadequate
transport, and to poor communications. This deficiency
applies throughout the system, but particularly at the
Divisional and field levels.
(b) The unbalanced mix of specialist skills. One particular
problem is the overall lack of staff skilled in farm man-
agement.
(c) Failure to provide sufficient in-service training,
particularly for Junior Agricultural Assistants (JAA's).
It is essential in order to improve the performance of
these staff that they should receive regular in-service
training on the more important agricultural enterprises
in their locations.
(d) A lack of continuity due to frequent transfers of
personnel between Divisions and Districts.
8.        The total present extension staff force is summarized below,
together with the relative farmer ratios:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Summary of Extension Service Staffing
Number of holdings 2/
Total No. 1/   In-service          per officer
Professional             518              431             3,710
Semi Professional        721              605             2,640
Qeneral Assistants    5,682             5,416               295
Total             7,101           6,452                248
1/  As at January 1, 1976
2/   Assuming a total population of 13.8 million (with 86% in agriculture),
a family of 6, and 1.25 families per holding, the total number of hold-
ings is estimated at 1.6 million.
9.        The situation portrayed by these figures indicates that there may be
some difficulty in achieving the two major Government objectives of increasing
food production and effectively assisting an increasing percentage of small
farmers. The service is under strength, particularly in the professional
grades, and the ratio of field staff to holdings is barely adequate. As the
output of trained agriculturalists is approximately sufficient to meet natural
attrition of extension staff, there is little hope for improving the officer/
holding ratio. However, as more officers are recruited from agricultural
colleges, the caliber of extension staff will improve slowly but signifi-
cantly; individual officers should thus, despite the continuing unfavorable
ratio, be considerably more effective. Hence, for the foreseeable future, any
improvement in the effectiveness of the extension service is only likely to
come from better organization and management and greater coordination and
liaison between technical divisions. However, plans are also being formulated
to increase the capacity of training institutions to increase the output
of better trained extension staff.
Proposed Development of Ministry of Agriculture Extension Service
10.       Progress achieved in all sub-sectors of agriculture in Kenya during
the last eight years necessitated further changes in the organization of the
extension service, particularly in the field. Central to the changes put
forward in the Ministry's improved organization of April 1976, is the need to
give Provincial Directors of Agriculture (PDA) greater autonomy over agri-
cultural activities in their Province. This directly complements Government
policy for decentralizing development planning and financing, a policy which is
now being implemented by the Ministry of Finance and Planning.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
II.       Under the new system a single post of Deputy Director of
Agriculture (DDA) has been created, with direct control over extension
and information services. The majority of extension staff in the
Ministry will be assigned as generalists under the DDA. Each of the
existing technical divisions will continue as at present to have
specialists posted at headquarters, Provincial and District levels.
12.       In order to achieve optimum coordination and attention to pri-
orities, these specialists will be directed by an agricultural adminis-
trative head in the field. Thus, the headquarters technical specialists
will advise and support District Agricultural Officers (DAO). District
technical specialists will similarly assist area supervisors (divisional
level staff). The posting of specific enterprise specialists, e.g. cotton
or coffee, will continue in the relevant areas, but their operational capacity
will be expanded.
13.       Through this reorganization it is expected that a more effective
extension service will emerge, one which will be able to concentrate on
specific work programs in each area. More attention can also be given to
specific projects, and to the needs of the local farmers.
14.       Some specific measures which are vital to increase the effective-
ness of the extension service are:
(a) more intensive coverage of extension officers in major
development areas and locations where communications and
accessibility are difficult;
(b) improved transportation facilities for officers,
principally by providing replacements for older
vehicles and more realistic operating expenses and
allowances for all vehicles;
(c) provision of recording facilities for farm monitoring;
(d) provision of facilities at divisional level for diseminating
more information to farmers through field days meetings,
literature and radios;
(e) provision of regular training courses to update information
for extension staff, and a continuation of the retraining
program for older junior officers;
(f) provision of training materials for demonstrations on a
model farm/village basis; and
(g) improved housing facilities for extension staff in remote
areas.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
C. Agricultural Training
15.       A variety of agricultural training is available in Kenya ranging
from degree courses at the University of Nairobi through diploma level
ccirses at agricultural colleges (administered through the Ministry of
Edacation), to certificate level course at Institutes and technological
courses at Farmer Training Centers (FTC's). The FTC's provide short
ccurses for farmers as well as in-service training for extension staff,
ayd they are the only institutions partly or wholly provided for under
tte MOA Budget. Total Degree, Diploma and Certificate students showed a
15% increase from 1971 to 1973 and another 24% increase is expected over
tIe duration of the Third Five Years Plan; much of this target has already
been achieved. The graduates from these institution are theoretically
anailable to the MOA, but in practice natural wastage and the attractions
of other institution curtail the number available.
1.(.      At present there are two large scale FTC's (Eldoret and Nyahururu)
wlich concentrate on training of farmer/managers and extension staff for
1,rge farms. There are 31 smaller FTC's, of which 18 are directly operated
by the MOA, and 13 national development centers run by the National Christian
Ccuncil of Kenya (NCCK) involving staff seconded from MOA. The aim is to
provide some agricultural training facilities in each of the 42 districts.
l/.       In 1971 the Training Division initiated a process of in-service
tiaining for Junior Agricultural Assistants (JAA) who were largely recruited
without detailed agricultural training. This training extends for three
m(nths, is operated at selected FTC's and is designed to provide simple but
up-to-date information on general farm management and the important husbandry
techniques for the major crops and livestock enterprises. The initial program
hEs been completed in some provinces, but will be maintained until all JAA's
have been phased out. Few staff are any longer appointed as JAA's, as this
r(le is now fulfilled by new entrants to the service as certificated Agri-
cultural Assistants (AA's).
18.       Existing Assistant Agricultural Officers and Senior Agricultural
AE sistants receive in-service training to update their knowledge. This
is provided in two months courses (specializing in animal or crop extension
o- farm management), the initial series of which is due for completion by
ey.d 1976. These courses will be itensified during 1977 and thereafter
utder specific projects.
1I.      Total expenditures by the Ministry of Agriculture for training
w4 re K Sh 750,489 and K Sh 754,848 respectively for 1974/75 and 1975/76;
al;ricultural training in schools accounted for the highest proportion of
these expenditures, followed by funds for FTC's and in-service training.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
20.       The capacity of each FTC ranges from 35-100 people per course,
and each has, in addition to farm employees, a teaching and administrative
staff of approximately eight persons. Each FTC has a "demonstration farm",
ranging from 25-1,000 ha in size, to assist with training courses. However,
many of these farms are poorly managed and operated on such a scale as to be
totally irrelevant to small farms. Reorganization of these demonstration
farms is currently being undertaken, and some farm have been reduced in size
to provide more typical demonstration units. Other training tools provided
for farmers include model farms and demonstration plots - both of which make
use of farmers of proven ability. For the future, a mixture of all three
methods is likely to be maintained to demonstrate new techniques to farmers.
21.       In recent years the FTC's have each run 30-50 courses annually,
thus reaching a maximum of 5,000 farmers and extension staff; on this basis
the total accessibility of all FTC's is approximately 155,000 "students".
As this could represent nearly 1 million people 1/, the potential coverage
is reasonably comprehensive.
22.       Training in agriculture has historically suffered from neglect,
particularly at the farmer and general assistant levels. The budget alloca-
tion for this sector has been a major recipient of enforced cuts, and many
of the facilities have been operating at only 30% of capacity or have been
closed for half of each year. This situation will now be remedied as recur-
rent funds have been specially allocated for training under the IDA Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (IADP). The USAID Sector Loan II and IADP
will provide funds for expanding operations of FTC's and for the selective
expansion of agricultural colleges. Further plans involve increasing training
at lower levels and simultaneously improving the general information service
to farmers to support the concept of "back to the land".
Development Strategy
23.       As part of the implementation program for the IADP, the specific
training/information elements which will be provided to achieve the objectives
are:
(a) In the pre-project phase specific courses orientated to the
needs of this project for all extension staff, particularly
the general assistants, along the lines of the present
in-service courses.
1/   At 6 persons per family.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(b) Funding for all FTC's to establish prototypes of the local
farm types and enterprises. Funding will also be available
where necessary for additional farm staff, inputs and
equipment.
(c) Design of specific courses for participating farmers where
necessary. The duration of these courses would be approximately
five days in the preparation year (split into two) and two days
in the third year of participation.
(d) Funds for model farmers at the village level. These farmers
will be selected because of their proven ability.
(e) Facilities at each division for radio programs.
These training programs will initiate components of the Smallholder Produc-
tion, Credit and Services Project (SPCSP), the pilot project for developing
better techniques to instruct and assist small farmers. Insofar as they
include the same officers, these courses will also benefit the extension
staff responsible for implementing/supervising the project.
24.       The USAID Smallholder Production Credit Project now in operation
is providing financial assistance to Farmer Training Centers for staff
and operations in Nyanza, Western and Eastern Provinces. The credit
segment of the USAID project is limited to marginal or subsistence level
smallholders usually considered too great a credit risk for either AFC
or SPCSP loans. The combined assistance of USAID and IADP to MOA staffing
and operations along with financing the improvement of marketing and
input supply sources will work to the advantage of potential borrowers
under the proposed Third Agricultural Credit Project.
December 7, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
A. Introduction
1.        Agricultural credit in Kenya is available through a number of
institutions in the organized credit market and individuals operating in
an informal market. Not much is known about the informal market, but evi-
dence shows that significant amounts of money change hands, especially within
the extended family system. Many of these family members earn a living
elsewhere in urban areas and remit regular sums to help maintain their hold-
ings.
2.        Five types of credit institutions can be distinguished:  (1) com-
mercial banks which provide working capital and development credit chan-
nelled largely through medium or large-scale farmers; (2) the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) which gives loans to large as well as small-scale
farmers; (3) cooperative banks which provide development and seasonal loans to
their members; (4) parastatal organizations such as crop or produce boards
which provide seasonal loans or medium loans mainly for the development of
cash crops; and (5) other credit institutions which provide suppliers credit
through institutions such as the Kenya Farmers' Association, Settlement Fund
and the Kenya breweries. Table 1 shows the new agricultural credit by type
of farmers since 1971.
Terms and Conditions of Agricultural Credit
3.        Lending institutions in Kenya generally require collateral for
their agricultural loans. AFC generally lends against land titles, and
in certain instances also takes floating charges over crops and movable
property.  Commercial banks follow similar arrangements, but may also
require pledges of salary or other assets for securing repayment. Coop-
erative societies lend to their members on the basis of a minimum of three
years of cash crop production and personal guarantors. Marketing boards may
provide credit secured by land, but usually this is secured through the
marketing channels under which the loan is deducted from the first proceeds of
the crop. Attempts have been made in the past to experiment with unsecured
credit but this has failed, probably due to the underdeveloped nature of the
debt collecting system.
4.         Interest rates for agricultural credit compare favorably with
rates charged on industrial and commercial loans. The commercial banks'
prime rate Is 8%, and large agro-industrial borrowers are accommodated at
this rate. Commercial banks charge between 9% and 10% on agricultural loans
to other than prime borrowers; the rate is applied to actual outstanding
amounts. Commercial banks lend largely on an overdraft basis, although



ANNEX 3
Page 2
small borrowers may be accommodated through personal loans. For several
years the interest was 7-1/2% on loans to large-scale as well as small-
scale farmers. About 40% of AFC's portfolio by end of 1975 consisted of
loans made at 6%, but AFC now charges 9% for medium-term credit and 10%
for seasonal loans. Cooperative members borrow from their societies at
10%, which is charged on actual outstanding balances.
5.        The loan repayment period for agricultural credit varies from
one institution to another according to use and the practices of the lender.
Commercial banks do not always demand annual cleanups of overdrafts, so that
the facilities of this type, traditionally intended to meet short-term needs,
may in practice be medium or long-term sources of funds for borrowers. AFC
loans are granted on a 3-5 year basis, but longer terms are granted for
land purchase and development loans to large-scale borrowers. The Coop-
erative Bank provides seasonal funds and also some medium-term finance for
up to five years for certain cooperative enterprises.
6.         Financial institutions in Kenya do not at present have a system
of penalty charges on arrears. However, AFC is considering the introduc-
tion of such penalties in order to reduce arrears and to recover part of
the extra cost servicing these borrowers.
B. Agricultural Credit Institutions
Commercial Banks
7.        Commercial banks, being custodians of their depositors' money,
usually try to avoid undue risks in their lending operations by requiring
adherence to strict security requirements. As a result virtually all lend-
ing to the agricultural sector is secured by title deeds to the farmland,
and therefore the availability of unencumbered title deeds, not loanable
funds, is the main constraint on commercial lending to agriculture. The
commercial banking system in Kenya is dominated by three large institutions
linked to British overseas banking groups. These are the Kenya Commercial
Bank (the largest and is now owned by the Government (60%) and by National
and Grindlays (40%) which also holds a management contract), the Barclays
Bank International and the Standard Bank (Kenya) Ltd. These banks provide
broad national coverage through a network of branch offices in Nairobi and
other important country towns in Kenya. Other commercial banks include
the National Bank of Kenya (100% Government-owned); the Commercial Bank of
Africa (in which a consortium of foreign banks is represented); the General
Bank of the Netherlands; and two Indian-owned banks.
8.        According to Central Bank statistics, as of December 31, 1975,
the commercial banking system had total deposits of K Sh 5,840 million,
and total advances of K Sh 4,682 million, giving an advance/deposit ratio
of 80.2%. Total direct lending by December 31, 1975 to private agriculture
was K Sh 737 million, equivalent to 15.8% of total advances and 12.6% of



ANNEX 3
Page 3
deposits. These amounts are accounted for almost entirely by the three
major banks, Kenya Commercial, Barclays and Standard Banks. An additional
K Sh 184 million (3.9% of total advances and 3.2% of deposits) was outstand-
ing to the non-central Government public sector, which includes statutory
organizations dealing in agricultural produce and promoting agricultural
development, such as the Coffee Board, the Pyrethrum Board and the Agricul-
tural Development Corporation.
9.        Government control over commercial banks is exercised through the
Central Bank machinery. The Central Bank issues directives setting the
maximum lending rate that can be charged by these commercial banks. As a
means of channelling more funds into agricultural production from commer-
cial banking institutions, the Central Bank issued instructions that as of
June 30, 1976, commercial banks are required to set aside 17% of their net
deposits for lending to the agricultural sector. (See Appendix 1). Table 2
shows that the ratio of agriculture to total advances has been slightly above
10% for the three-year period, 1971-75, but dropped considerably in 1974 and
increased sharply in 1975, due probably to efforts to implement the Government's
directive referred to above. Generally, the lack of security, rather than an
unwillingness to lend, is the main obstacle to a significant expansion of
agricultural lending. In many areas of Kenya land adjudication has not yet
been completed (see Table 3 of Annex 1) and in others the title deeds have
been used as security in obtaining loans elsewhere.
10.       The bulk of commercial bank lending to agriculture is channelled
to large-scale farms and farming companies, and to corporations engaged in
agro-industrial activities. However, commercial banks also handle a large
number of loans to medium and small-scale farmers, presently estimated to
number 10-12,000. Constraints to such lending are the high cost of making
small loans and the lack of dependable farm management advice to medium-size
farms. To overcome these constraints and at the same time comply with Central
Bank directives for agricultural lending, commercial banks may make increasing
use of discounting AFC promissory notes, which could be easily rediscounted
by the Central Bank. It is too early, however to make any judgments as to
the extent to which commercial banks would take advantage of this procedure.
11.       Small-scale loans are usually of short-term duration (2-3 years),
and are largely designed to meet on-farm development requirements rather than
for working capital. Due to the small amounts -- loans vary from KSh 8,000
to 20,000 -- banks keep their administrative costs low by simply extending
a line of credit up to the agreed loan amount without performing an analysis
of farm development proposals. There is also practically no follow-up on
the actual use of loan proceeds. This is in contrast to the current AFC
practice where loan applications for smallholders are prepared in conjunc-
tion with Ministry of Agriculture, Land and Farm Management Division field
staff; this involves visits to each farmer by an AFC field officer before a
loan is made, loans disbursement based on suppliers' invoices, and the supervi-
sion of loan use by both MOA and AFC.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Agricultural Finance Corporation (Annex 4)
12.       The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) was established in 1963
as a statutory body to continue credit operations of the two Boards of Agricul-
ture then serving the farming community. In 1969 the Corporation was reconsti-
tuted with wider powers and at present AFC is the primary agricultural credit
institution in Kenya with a variety of lending programs to both the small and
large-scale farm sectors. The function of AFC is to assist in the development
of agriculture and agricultural industries by making loans to farmers, coopera-
tive societies, incorporated group representatives, private companies, public
bodies, local authorities and other persons engaging in agriculture or agricul-
tural industries. AFC is the primary agricultural credit institution in Kenya
and it is the only lender serving the farm sector through a variety of lending
programs to both the commercially oriented small and large farms.
13.       AFC credit programs embrace three large-scale schemes supported
by external donors. The first scheme covers land purchase and development
loans financed under the British Land Transfer Program, having components
such as (i) Settlement Schemes, involving predominantly smallholdings but
also including some medium to large-scale farms and some cooperative units;
(ii) the British Land Transfer Assisted Owners Scheme through which trans-
fer of farms owned by UK citizens and located outside settlement areas was
facilitated by providing funds to the Kenya Government for on-lending to
AFC; and (iii) the Stamp Purchase Plan which was initiated in 1966 to fi-
nance the purchase and transfer of the remaining British-owned farms.
14.       The second schlerme involves ranching loans funded jointly by IDA,
Sweden, and USAID, designed to assist in the developmert of different types
of ranching organizations (grcup, company, individual and commercial ranch-
ing enterprises). These also include the establishment and improvement of
technical services for the ranching sector investment in livestock marketing
and distribution.
15.       The third scheme involves large farm development programs supported
by the overseas development finance institution of the Federal Republic of
Germany, Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW). It provides funds for the
establishment of state-owned animal breeding farms and for the rationaliza-
tion of large-scale African firms in the Trans Nzoia District.
Marketing Boards
16.       Smallholders growing tea, pyrethrum, coffee and cotton are often
also able to obtain seasonal or medium-term credit from the respective mono-
poly marketing organizations. Cash crop loans take up most of the funds,
and farmers growing only food crops have little access to credit, whether
seasonal or medium-term. A farmer can, for instance, obtain advances from
the respective board for the establishment of additional acreage (medium-
term) and for fertilizer application (short-term). Loans are repaid by
deduction from crop proceeds. For wheat and cereal production, large-scale
farmers benefit from the Wheat Scheme, which is being administered by the



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Wheat Board. Under this program, growers obtain credit for actual cost of
all cultivation and harvesting activities and repayment is effected by with-
holding from crop proceeds.
The Cooperative System
17.       The Cooperative Bank.  This bank was established in 1968 and is a
specialized financial institution serving the cooperative system, offering
cooperative societies banking services designed to meet their special needs.
The Cooperative Bank was founded because it was felt that the services ex-
tended to cooperatives by commercial banks and the volume of cooperative
transactions was sufficient to justify the existence of a specialized bank.
It does not provide a full range of banking services and has no individual
depositors, but serves as the financial arm of the cooperative system.
Banking services which it offers its customers are designed to meet their
specific needs and support Government efforts to strengthen the cooperative
movement. The aim of the Cooperative Bank is to pool funds generated by co-
operatives and to make them available to the members. Cooperative societies
generally maintain accounts at a commercial bank branch in the nearest com-
mercial center to cover their day-to-day requirements. The Cooperative Bank
lends to societies under the Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (CPCS) for
crop finance, and also provides a limited amount of medium-term finance for
coffee factories, cotton ginneries and other investments undertaken by coop-
eratives including land purchase, buildings and vehicles.
18.       The Cooperative Bank has been borrowing at the rate of 4-1/2 per-
cent from the Government. The on-lending rates from Cooperative Bank to
unions or societies are:
(1) CPCS loans - prime rate (up to 18 months) approximately
8% in July 1975;
(2) three to six month crop advances - about 9 percent;
(3) medium term loans for implements, vehicles, etc. (2 years)
about 9 percent; and
(4) long term loans (2-5 years) for land purchases, processing
plants - 9 to 10 percent.
19.       The Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (CPCS).  Individual
farmers and primary societies may borrow in kind from their unions under a
standard formula, subject to the approval of the society's credit committee
(which includes the society's management and the local extension officer).
The farmer's borrowing limit is set at 2/3 of his annual production of cash
crop handled by the society, based on experience over the past three years;
the total credit extended is limited by the amount of credit available to
the society from its own members savings and other cooperative societies.
Societies lend against estimated crop proceeds on the basis of letters of



ANNEX 3
Page 6
understanding relating to stop orders obtained from statutory buying boards.
Each borrower is also required to provide two guarantors. In addition to
the CPCS loans, some cooperative societies also advance seasonal loans
amounting to up to 10 percent of the value of the farmer's estimated cash
crop production. This credit can be available to the farmer up to 4 times
a year, provided his previous borrowing under this 10 percent scheme has
been fully repaid. This scheme is supported by the Cooperative Bank
through the "crop advances" from the Bank to the unions and societies
(see para 18). The CPCS scheme has been implemented mainly in Central
and Eastern Provinces and, to a lesser extent in Western and NIyanza Prov-
a 18). The CPCS scheme has been implemented mainly in Central
and Eastern Provinces and, to a lesser extent in Western and Nyanza Prov-
inces. Approximately 60,000 loans were made under CPCS during 1970-73,
totalling K Sh 31 million, an average of about K Sh 520 per borrowing. The
societies operating the scheme at the end of 1973 involved an active member-
ship of 205,000 farmers. The repayment record has exceeded 90 percent.
20.       In the coming years, the Department of Cooperative Development
proposes to provide the CPCS and savings schemes to between 290,000 and
335,000 members, or between 48 - 56 percent of the total membership by 1978.
The aim is to assist in strengthening coverage in Western and Nyanza prov-
ince, while achieving the good record of the CPCS scheme realized elsewhere.
Approximately 30 percent of the cooperative unions and societies now oper-
ating the CPCS and savings program have acquired capital approaching double
their requirements for short-term lending purposes; consequently agricul-
tural credit is not a constraint in these cases.
21.       Rural Cooperatives.  Rural cooperative societies finance crop
marketing, livestock including dairy, and farm purchase; there were 1,500
of these societies with a total membership exceeding 600,000 in 1975. In
addition to their primary marketing or production function, cooperatives
also extend credit for input supplies, credit through the Cooperative Pro-
duction Credit Scheme (CPCS); they also have instituted savings plans. A
further 600 societies are active in providing limited crop advances together
with minimal crop input supplies.
22.       The Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA).  KFA is a cooperative society
involved in agricultural credit through its input supply and marketing func-
tions. It has branches in about 30 locations, and its membership, composed
mainly of African farmers, stood at 2,774 in 1975. However, non-members can
also use KFA facilities, especially the crop marketing facilities. KFA
provides credit through liberal terms extended on purchases of agricultural
inputs by members in good standing. Generally, such credits must be settled
within 30 days after purchase, but this can be extended to 90 days for the
most creditworthy members. Credit balances earn interest at 4% per annum,
and overdue items incur a 10% per annum penalty charge. KFA works closely
with AFC in its credit and marketing activities, but encounters certain
problems relating to the institutional linkages involved. For example, trade
credit is often extended to members who have also obtained farm development
loans from AFC. If for any reason AFC is dissatisfied with a borrower, it
may refuse to reimburse KFA.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR) System
23.       The GMR was established in 1942 primarily to provide crop insurance.
It now also provides seasonal credit for medium and large scale maize and
wheat farmers. The GMR program is limited to farms growing at least 6 ha of
wheat or maize; Government approves the planting of a certain acreage, and
this "planting order" entitles the farmer to compensation in case of crop
failure. Thus, the security provided by GMR creates the basis for seasonal
credit in the form of the "Advances on GMR" program.
24.       To date, over 7,000 farmers have participated in GMR which has
until 1975 been administered by AFC on agency basis. As from 1976 AFC is
now assuming complete financial responsibility. Finance for the GMR program
is provided by the Cereal and Sugar Finance Corporation (CSFC), a statutory
body established in 1955 to advance funds to cereal growers and to finance
imports of sugar and cereals. The financing arrangements for GMR were
changed in that AFC, still acting as agent for the CSFC, raised the re-
quired funds through the sale of promissory notes by the Central Bank.
Most of these notes were discounted by commercial banks at 6% and 6-1/2%,
respectively, for 90 and 180 day maturity. AFC charges farmers 10% per
annum.
October 14, 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 1
K E N Y A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
New Agricultural Credit Issued
by type of farms 1971/72-1974/75
1971/72      1972/73       1973/74       1974/75
Small Scale Farmers
Short term loans                 178.9        190.0          768.2         832.1
Medium term loans                 727.8        728.4         509.3         639.4
Long term loans                   46.3          34.8          26.8          22.4
Other loans                        ..          ..            189.0         176.0
Total                         953.0        953.2        1493.3        1669.9
Large Scale Farmers
Short term loans                   5.6          21.5         141.9         157.0
Medium term loans                  31.6         31.3           3.9           4.7
Long term loans                  793.3       1829.3          895.9         924.7
Other loans                        ..          ..              -            18.4
Total                        1030.5       1882.1        1041.7        1104.8
Co-operative Societies
Short term loans                 702.0         723.5        1562.8        1341.9
Medium term loans                   3.5        156.5         909.0        1008.6
Long term loans                     -           60.9          73.7          71.5
Other loans                        ..          ..             93.2         146.8
Total                         705.5        940.9        2638.7         2568.8
Other Farmers
Short term loans                 542.2        584.8            -            46.3
Medium term loans                   0.9         53.4          26.1          23.1
Long term loans                  721.2          -             -             15.5
Total                        1264.3        638.2           26.1          84.9
All Recipients
Short term loans                1428.7       1519.8         2472.9        2377.3
Medium term loans                 763.9        969.6        1448.2        1675.8
Long term loans                 1760.9       1924.9          996.4        1034.0
Other loans                       1/            1/           282.2         341.3
Total                        3953.4       4414.4        5199.7         5428.5
Footnote 1/ Included above
SOURCE: Economic Survey 1976
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 2
K E N Y A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CRETIT PROJFCT
Share of Commercial Bank Agricultural Lending
in Total DpDosits and Advances
(K Sh Million)
Total
Total       Total        Agricultural    As % of         As %' of
Year         Deposits    Advances          Lending        Deposits    Advances
June 30, 1971    3,095         2,082             232           7.5          11.1
June 30, 1972    3,266         2,425             246           7.5          10.1
June 30, 1973    4,219         2,515             262           6.2          10.4
June 30, 1974    5,103         3,823             338           6.6           8.8
June 30, 1975    5,375         4,232             499           9.3          11.8
Dec. 31, 1975    5,840         4,682             737          12.6          15.7
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 3
K E N Y A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Interest Rates on Agricultural Credit, January 1976
Lending Institutions       Purpose of Lending             Inte rest Rate
Commercial Banks         mostly short and medium               8 - 12%
Agricultural Finance    seasonal                                   10%
Corporation (AFC)
medium                                     9%
long                                       9%
Cooperatives             seasonal                                  10%
medium                                    10%
Other                    GMR                                       10%
Wheat Board                               10%
Kenya Breweries                           10%
Parastatals                varying rates  1/
KFA                        (10% on credit
(5% on deposits
1/  Sometimes it is difficult to differentiate between interest rate charges,
repayment of loans, and cost of extension service in the deductions made
by parastatals such as KTDA and the Pyrethrum Board.



ANNEX 3
Table 4
K E N Y A
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Size, Type of Credit and Source of Finance
A. Large and Medium Scale Farms
Land purchase                     AFC
long term development             AFC
medium term development           AFC/Commercial Banks
working capital &
seasonal inputs                   Commercial Banks/GMR/Wheat
Board/Kenya Breweries/KFA/
co-operatives
B. Small Scale Farms
(a) Commercial
medium term development          AFC/Commercial Banks
seasonal credit                  AFC/Co-operatives
(b)  Subsistence                      IADP, through Co-operatives
and AFC.
seasonal credit



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Chief Executives,
Commercial Banks in Kenya
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Banks are already avare of the high priority attached to agricultural lending
and the efforts made by some banks are appreciated. It has, neverthless,
become necessary to set a specific target for the proportion of bank resources
to be made available to the agricultural sector.
Banking lending to agriculture has increased as follows:
As % of all loans private        As % of net
Shs. Million              sector                     deposits
Dec. 1972         240.34                   10%                       7.4%
1973        355.96                    11%                       8.4%
1974        409.44                   9.8%                       9.0%
Mar. 1975         464.79                 11.2%                       9.7%
So that banks which operate mainly in Nairobi and Mombasa may also contribute
to agricultural credit requirements, the Central Bank has arranged to market
promissory notes of the Agricultural Finance Corporation, and so to fund
advance made by A.F.C. under the G.M.R. scheme. If such notes were counted,
total credit to agriculture would be 11 percent of net deposits.
Each bank is now requested to bring its agricultural lending up to at least
17 percent of net deposits by 30th June, 1976. This implies additional
lending of the order of 300 million shillings which is well within the
capacity of the system without preventing normal growth in other sectors.
Reporting requirements and definitions of "agricultural lending" and of "net
deposits" are set out in the accompanying circular from the Bank Inspection
Office. The definitions may be extended so as to include refinance of sums
actually advanced to farmers by other intermediaries but will NOT be extended
to include credit to buyers of farm produce or suppliers of agricultural
inputs although they may of course indirectly provide credit for agriculture.
The suggested date gives adequate notice for each bank to have time to make
appropriate arrangements; we should like to see an earlier response.
It is appreciated that seasonal fluctuations are particularly strong in
agricultural lending and due allowance will be made to take account of such
changes. A legal instruction will be gazetted under Section 40 of the
Central Bank of Kenya Act in due course.
D. N. NDEGWA
Governor
CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA
26th July, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page  1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Finance Corporation
Background
1.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), was established in
1963 as a statutory body (a Government owned body established by law) to
take over the credit functions of the two Boards of Agriculture then serving
the Scheduled (European) and Nonscheduled (African) Areas, and to work in
close cooperation with the Land and Agricultural Bank established in 1931.
Under the AFC Act of 1969, AFC was reconstituted with wider additional powers
and took over the operations and assets and liabilities of the Land and Agri-
cultural Bank. The present functions of the corporation are to assist in
the development of agriculture and agricultural industries by making loans
to farmers, cooperative societies, incorporated group representatives, pri-
vate companies, public bodies, local authorities and other persons engaging
in agriculture or agricultural industries. At present, AFC is the primary
agricultural credit institution in Kenya and it is the only lender serving
the farm sector through a variety of lending programs to both the small and
large farms.
2.        AFC is presently extending credit under three large-scale schemes
supported by external donors. The first of these schemes covers land pur-
chase and development loans financed under the British Land Transfer Pro-
gram. The major components of the transfer program were: (i) settlement
schemes, involving predominantly smallholdings but also including some medium
to large-scale farms and some cooperative units; (ii) the British Land Trans-
fer Assisted Owners Scheme, through which transfer of farms owned by UK citi-
zens and located outside settlement areas was facilitated by providing funds
to the Kenya Government for on-lending to AFC; and (iii) the Stamp Purchase
Plan which was initiated in 1966 to finance the purchase and transfer of the
remaining British owned farms (which comprised some of the best farms in the
country) and to ensure their continuation as single units in order to safe-
guard what was considered the unique economic advantages of this scale of
activity. The Kenya Government acting through the Agricultural Development
Corporation (ADC) acquired 120 farms under the latter plan, and sixteen of
the largest and best of these were retained as State Farms and are managed
by ADC "in the national interest."
3.        The second of the large-scale schemes involves ranching loans
funded jointly by IDA, Sweden, and USAID. These are designed to assist in
the development of different types of ranching organizations (group, company,
individual and commercial ranching enterprises) and involved the establish-
ment and improvement of technical services for the ranching sector plus
investment in livestock routes and marketing facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        The third scheme is comprised of the large farm development pro-
grams supported by the overseas development finance institution of the
Federal Republic of Germany, Kreditanstalt fur Wideraufbau (KFW), to pro-
vide funds for the establishment of state-owned animal breeding farms and
for the rationalization of large-scale African farms in the Trans Nzoia
District. Funds were made available to AFC for on-lending to a number of
large-scale African farmers in the Kitale area whose farms it was expected
could benefit from injections of capital. An agricultural team provided
under West German foreign assistance is operating in this area, and loan
funds were provided to support their extension activities.
5.        AFC is also extending credit under two small-scale programs which
include smallholder development projects funded by IDA and KFW. These
projects were designed to provide credit for on-farm development and to
assist in diversifying and improving crops and animal husbandry practices
of selected smallholders. Included also is a small poultry development ele-
ment, financing for farm machinery and equipment, and a technical assistance
element providing for an agricultural credit survey in Kenya.
6.        In addition to those schemes supported by external donors, AFC
operates small and large-scale lending schemes 1/ from its own resources
(which stem largely from capital provided by the Government). The AFC small-
scale lending program is mainly directed towards the less favored districts
in which land registration has not yet been completed and in which land can-
not therefore be used as loan security. As external resources are generally
available in areas where land mortgages can be given, AFC is thus able to
devote its own resources to the marginal areas. AFC also operates a large-
scale lending program from its own resources (i.e. it is not part of any
project receiving assistance from multilateral or bilateral donors), which
provides both land purchase and development loans as a supplement to those
provided by the British Land Transfer Program. Although no breakdown of
large-scale loans by purpose is available, it is estimated that approxi-
mately 60% of all large-scale loans irrespective of the source of financing
are for land purchase, about 30% are for on-farm development and about 7%
are for repayment of outstanding debts other than those owed to AFC. These
debt consolidation loans are granted to enable AFC to obtain a charge over
the farmer's assets; such a consolidation is generally considered to be
to the farmer's advantage as the AFC loan is normally at a lower rate of
interest than is obtainable elsewhere, and as it is usually accompanied by
farm planning services.
7.        Small-scale programs generally provide funds in amounts up to
K Sh 15,000 (proposed to be increased to K Sh 20,000), while large-scale
schemes are typically much larger and often finance quite different farm
enterprises. Although the ratio of large-scale to small-scale loans out-
standing as of March 31, 1976 stood at 3:1 (5:1 in 1975), AFC in fact has
1/   The terms small-scale loans and large-scale loans are used by AFC to
differentiate between loans below K Sh 15,000 and those above that
limit, irrespective of the size of the borrowers' holdings.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
many more small-scale than large-scale borrowers. AFC's large-scale port-
folio includes land purchase loans which are extended for a 30-year term,
while practically all of the small-scale loans are for land and enterprise
development, on terms ranging from 3 to 10 years; the small-scale portfolio
thus has a more rapid turn-over than the large-scale portfolio.
8.        AFC acts also as agent for the Guaranteed Minimum Return (GRM)
program. This program provides seasonal production credit to growers with
more than 15 ha under wheat and hybrid maize. It was originally started in
1942 as a war-time measure to encourage large-scale crop production, and
until 1966 applied only to plots of at least 250 ha under specified crops.
The program has gradually been reduced in scope with regard to the variety
of crops covered, but has been modified and expanded through a lowering of
the minimum size of holding eligible for participation. GMR is presently
funded by the Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation (CSFC), and AFC acts as
agent for the disbursement and collection of GMR funds. Advances under the
program are given up to specified maxima in terms of K Sh per ha and for
specified purposes. Interest is charged at 10% p.a. The GMR program is
losing its popularity as the amount advanced represents less than 50% of the
cost of inputs, and as restrictions imposed whereby advances are only made to
farmers who have repaid previous advances and are in good credit standing with
AFC.
9.        AFC lends on a secured basis, generally against mortgages on land,
and in certain instances charges are also taken against movable property.
In general, the coverage should not be less than 1-1/2 times the approved
loan. When the loan is in default, the entire amount outstanding becomes
due automatically under a clause included in AFC's loan agreements. How-
ever, at stages short of foreclosure AFC does not exercise its right to call
the entire amount outstanding. The Corporation has instituted a policy of
paying interest (at approximately 5% p.a.) to borrowers who in effect make
prepayments through monthly payments to AFC in anticipation of larger sums
which fall due quarterly.
Management and Organization
10.       AFC was transferred to the office of the President in June 1970,
but no changes were made in the composition of its Board of Directors. The
Ministry of Finance and Planning and the Ministry of Agriculture are repre-
sented on the Board by their Permanent Secretaries, and the Secretary of
Finance and Planning currently serves as Chairman of the Board. In addi-
tion to the two Permanent Secretaries, the board consists of between four
and six Ministerial appointees (two of whom are required to have experience
in banking or finance) drawn from official and private sources.
11.       The General Manager is the chief executive officer of the Corpora-
tion, but he is not a member of the Board of Directors. He is appointed by
the Board, with the advise and consent of the Ministers concerned. The pres-
ent General Manager was appointed in June 1973 after having been Deputy
General Manager of the Corporation since 1965. He is responsible to the
Board for the day-to-day operations of the Corporation, and he is assisted
by a Deputy General Manager who was previously a senior officer of the Min-
istry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       The Corporation has a fairly centralized structure, with a Head
Office located in Nairobi and a network of 32 branch offices which provide
coverage of Kenya's principal agricultural districts. During the past two
years some decentralization has taken place in an effort to spread the
administrative burden and to use the existing staff more effectively.
Five Area Managers play a vital role in the decentralization process, as
each is responsible for the guidance and supervision of offices in his
geographical area of responsibility. Three of the area managers were pro-
vided by USAID and the fourth was provided by German Aid. Loan approvals
for small-scale loans up to K Sh 10,000 are now made by branch managers.
All other loans go through initial screening which takes place in the field
in two stages. In the first stage extension staff advise farmers to pur-
chase an AFC loan application and assist them to fill it in; at the second
stage District Loan Committees (which include branch managers and extension
officers) advise AFC's head office on the credit-worthiness of prospective
borrowers in their respective districts.
13.       AFC has, however, generally lacked the capability to undertake
a sophisticated analysis of the credit-worthiness of farm enterprises, and
the staff has mostly concentrated on ensuring the availability of adequate
collateral. Therefore, to help AFC develop this expertise and to enable it to
become the development institution it was originally intended to be, it
is proposed that under the Project an Appraisal Department be created within
AFC. The Project would also include provision for the recruitment of an
internationally qualified agricultural credit specialist experienced in
appraisal of agricultural loans to serve as a training advisor for the new
department. The medium-scale farm component of the Project would be used as a
pilot project in training AFC staff in project appraisal and evaluation.
14.       AFC's established salary levels are somewhat above Government
levels, although they are still below those prevailing in the private
sector. The commercial banks which compete with AFC in the labor market
are free to set their own remuneration schedules. AFC's salary policies
probably contribute to the high turnover of local staff, and may also
prevent AFC from obtaining the caliber of staff which it so badly needs.
The General Manager will prepare a new salary scale for AFC staff taking
into consideration the conditions prevailing in the commercial sector. This
new proposal would be presented to AFC's board for final approval.
Financial Resources
15.       AFC's capital consists partly of irredeemable or ownership capital,
some of which is interest-bearing (originally belonging to the predecessor
corporation, the Land and Agricultural Bank), and the remainder is interest-
free grants, and redeemable or long term debt capital. As of March 31, 1976,
irredeemable capital amounted to K Sh 128 million (US$15.4 million), of which
K Sh 48 million (US$5.8 million) were interest free grants. Redeemable loans
which include proceeds of loans to Government from IDA and other external
sources which were on-lent to AFC amounted to K Sh 283 million (US$34.1 mil-
lion) as of that date. Prior to the effectiveness of the IDA Smallholder



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Credit Project in 1967, interest was charged to AFC by Government at 6% p.a.,
but since that date all funds have been provided at 3.5% p.a. in accordance
with the terms of that credit. The Second Smallholder Agricultural Credit
Project approved by IDA in 1972 reduced the Government's onlending rate to
AFC to 1%. For fiscal year 1976 the blend of interest payable averaged 3.9%
on interest bearing capital or 3.4% on total resources including interest
free grants.
16.       AFC's redeemable capital represents long term debt on-lent to
AFC by Government from funds provided by IDA and other financing agencies
under the different agricultural credit projects. These onlending arrange-
ments are gradually drawing down AFC's resources, thus forcing the Corpora-
tion to make regular requests to Treasury for additional financing to allow
it to continue its present level of operations (Annex 5, para 20). More-
over, such funds as are on-lent to AFC are not earmarked for any specific
type of lending beyond the first lending cycle. As a result AFC has use of
these funds during the period between repayment by borrowers and repayment
by AFC to Government without any limitation on its use; for instance, the
repayments on smallholder credit projects have been used to finance ranching
or large-scale farm development loans where the margins are greater. The
end result has inevitably been that less funds have been available for
smallholder credit. An examination of the documented information on AFC's
available resources and the availability of funds for relending revealed
that such funds would be barely sufficient to cover a part of AFC's needs
for credit and would in effect act as a supplement to the proposed credit.
17.       The Project proposes the establishment of a Credit Fund to be
operated by AFC. This fund would be managed on a revolving basis to finance
AFC's farm development lending and would be restricted to relending to the
same type of farmers as are included under the Project. Initially the Fund
would be supplied with the proceeds of the IDA credit and Government's own
contribution and all loan repayments related to the Project would be cre-
dited to it. Government would undertake to replenish the Fund to the level
established under the Project, if for various reasons outside AFC's control
the Fund should be drawn down. These reasons would include inter alia crop
failure, support of Government programs beyond the stage of commercial
prudence, or an interest rate structure insufficient to cover AFC's lending
costs. Thus the Fund would establish AFC's farm development lending on a
more permanent financial basis.
Results of Operations
18.       Since reorganization in 1969, total small and large-scale loans
outstanding increased from K Sh 158 million (US$19 million) to K Sh 413
million (US$49.8 million) in 1976.  The amount of resources applied to
large scale loans was approximately six times that applied to small scale
loans in 1973.  However, this ratio has declined over the years due to the
increasing support to smallholders, and as of March 31, 1976 that ratio
stood at 3 to 1.  In the second IDA Smallholder Credit Project in 1972,



ANNEX 4
Page 6
it was agreed that AFC's lending rate would be raised from 7.5% p.a. to
8% p.a. This rate applied to all loans under all projects made after
January 1, 1973 and also to interest charged on amounts overdue after that
date. AFC's lending rate at present stands at 9% p.a. and it is proposed
to increase it to 11% p.a. In spite of the increasing interest rates
charged by AFC over the years, the blend of interest receivable on AFC's
total portfolio in 1975/76 averaged 7.1%, as compared with 7.0% in 1973.
19.       Interest paid by AFC on its total interest bearing capital in
1976 averaged 3.9%, or 3.4% on its total resources including interest free
grants. This has shown a gradual improvement over the previous years due
to the lowering of interest charged by Government on funds advanced to AFC.
In 1974 the comparable figures were 4.5% and 3.8% respectively. With the
gradual decrease in the cost of fuinds and increase in the interest charged
by AFC it was expected that the iniprovement in the spread would be suf-
ficient to cover AFC's expenses leaving a modest profit. AFC's income
statements for the fiscal years 1973 to 1976, however, show that AFC in-
curred losses in 1973 and 1975, made a profit in 1974 and reached a break
even point in 1976. These results appear to be determined to a large degree
by the amount charged for provision for bad and doubtful debts in each year.
AFC had at one time followed the practices of adding 1% of its total port-
folio outstanding at year end to rhe provision for bad and doubtful debts
calculated on a statistical basis without any reference to the actual loans.
It was felt at the time by both AFC's management and their auditors that in
the absence of firm data on arrears, this system should prove adequate over
a period of time. In 1974 management decided to adopt a new basis of pro-
viding for doubtful debts based on specific percentages of overdue loans as
at the end of the year. Had the previous practice been applied, the year
1974 would also have resulted in a loss.
20.       AFC's small-scale loans involve considerable overhead and admin-
istrative costs in relation to the principal amounts involved. Moreover,
AFC's large-scale clients include some who may not have been able to borrow
from private institutions or commercial sources, indicating a higher risk
position. Apart from the financial and economic reasons that dictated the
lowering of interest chargeable or funds made available to AFC and an in-
crease in the rate of interest charged by AFC on its loans to borrowers,
another compelling reason for these adjustments has been the inability of
AFC to break even.
21.       AFC has previously experienced delays in the preparation of
accounts and production of timely statements for billing purposes because
of problems with accounting machines. A computer has been installed, and
it is expected that all accounts would be on the computer by the end of
1976. The small-scale loans have already been programmed, and after a
few teething problems at the outset it is now possible to obtain an up-
to-date aging schedule of arrears of small-scale loans. The preparation
of loan statements and regular monthly billing system has become efficient,
and AFC's branches are now able to follow up persistent defaulters, thus



ANNEX 4
Page 7
bringing about an improvement in the arrears situation. The following
table shows the position of arrears since 1973 and the balance of the pro-
vision for bad and doubtful debts in each year.
---------------------------(K Sh '000)---------------------------
Loans                     Provision for      Arrears:    Provision:
Outstanding    Arrears    Doubtful Debts         loans        arrears
1973        244,936       44,006          16,743            18%           38%
1974        263,240       47,518          16,743            18%           35%
1975       321,743        40,765          21,083            13%           52%
1976       413,094        41,466          26,579            10%           64%
The arrears position appears to have improved over the years in spite of
the large increase in the volume of loans outstanding as of March 31, 1976.
As a percentage of loans outstanding, total arrears of principal and inter-
est have decreased from 18% in 1973 to 10% in 1976. This improvement was
reflected in both the large scale and small scale loans; total arrears of
principal and interest at the end of fiscal year 1976 was 17% for small
scale loans and 8% for large loans compared with 30% and 16% respectively
in 1973. Moreover, the provision for bad and doubtful debts which stood
at K Sh 16.7 million in 1973 or 38% of total arrears has been increased to
K Sh 26.6 million or 64% of total arrears. This marked improvement could
be attributed to improved records, up to date accounts and billing coupled
with proper analysis and prompt management information. In spite of this,
it does not appear likely that AFC would operate at a reasonable profit on
its present spread (which approximates 3.7% on total funds). A spread of
6% on future funds to be on-lent to AFC is therefore justified.
22.       In spite of the recent substantial improvement in the preparation
of its accounts, AFC's management and accounting information procedures re-
main inadequate. In particular, the preparation of a realistic cash flow
based on disbursements and repayments of loans under all outstanding credits
extended to AFC by IDA and other financing agencies would require expertise
not presently available within AFC. The present financial controller was
due to leave two years ago, but his contract was extended until an inter-
nationally qualified and experienced financial controller could be recruited
under bilateral aid. This problem has been resolved and the new controller
will assume his responsibilities early in 1977. It is expected that this
change will lead to a substantial improvement in the preparation of finan-
eial projections, presently a serious deficiency in AFC's management in-
formation system.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
AFC Project Cash Flow
23.       AFC's Project Cash Flow is shown in Table 4.  Interest was charged
by Government to AFC at 4% per annum on medium term loans and 5% per annum on
seasonal credit; AFC's onlending rate for seasonal credit and medium-term
loans was charged at 11% and 10% per annum respectively, giving AFC a 6%
spread on all loans. Seasonal credit would be repayable within one year and
medium term loans would be repayable in equal installments over five years.
It was assumed that generally seasonal credit would be repaid on time; one
major factor in this assumption was that a farmer would not get his second
year seasonal credit loan unless his previous loan had been repaid in full.
Nevertheless, it was assumed that 2% of seasonal credit repayable in any
year would be written off as bad. In addition, medium term loans would have
2% written off as bad and 10% late repayments by one year. Based on the above
assumptions the Cash Flow statement shows the balance of funds available for
re-lending in each year.
December 7, 1976



ANNEX 4
KENYA                                 Table 1
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC Financial Statements - Income Statements
(K sh '000)
Year Ended March 31,                     Audited ---------   Unaudited
1973      1974       1975       1976
Interest Earned:
Large scale loans                  13,888    15,287    17,415    20,267
Small scale loans                   2,254     2,460      3,194      5,825
Other                                 990        770     2,234      2,060
Total interest earned         17,132    18,517    22,043    28,152
Interest Payable:
Irredecmable loans                  4,149     4,150      4,150      4,161
Redecmable loans                    4,922     5,701      6,827      8,399
Deposits                               87         97        82         10
Total interest payable        9,158      9,948    11,059    12,570
Net Interest Income                    7,974      8,569    10,984    15,582
Other Income                           3,738      3,338     4,857      6,572
Total income                 11,712    11,907    15,841    22,154
Administrative Expenses                8,715      9,888    13,180    14,609
Bad and Doubtful Debts                 2,714         54     4,821      6,016
Depreciation                             765        837      1,102     1,131
Total expenses                12,194    10,779    19,103    21,756
Net Income/(Loss)                       (482)       128    (3,262)       398
September 16, 1976.



KENYA                                ANNEX 4
Table 2
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC Financial Statements - Balance Sheets
(K sh '000)
As of March 31                  -------- Audited -  Unaudited
1973      1974       1975      1976
Loans to Farmers:
Large - scale                     210,087   224,859   268,840   310,953
Small - scale                     34,849    38,381    52,903   102,141
Total                       244,936   263,240   321,743   413,094
Provision for doubtful debts       16,743    16,743    21,083    26,579
Net loans to farmers        228,193   246,497   300,660   386,515
Other Loans and Deposits              11,875    20,747    23,111    18,023
Current Assets:
Debtors and accruals                7,235     9,964      3,764      7,112
Cash and bank balances             14,130    11,019      7,116     7,598
Total current assets         21,365    20,983    10,880    14,710
Fixed Assets                           6,005     5,803      6,444      6,710
Total Assets                         267,438   294,030   341,095   425,958
Current Liabilities:
Deposits at call                    2,107     2,107        441        141
Land purchase deposits              3,088     2,780      5,398     4,377
Creditors and accrued charges       6,483     5,491      6,030     7,303
Total current liabilities   11,678    10,378    11,869    11,821
Net Assets                           255,760   283,652   329,226   414,137
Financed by:
Loans and Grants:
Irredecmable loans             80,100    80,100    80,100    80,100
Redecmable loans              125,230   150,737   199,272   282,910
Interest free grants           45.822    47.080    47.380    48.255
Total loans & grants      251,152   277,917   326,752   411,265
Accumulated Surplus/(Deficit)      4,608      5,735      2,474     2,872
TOTAL LOANS, GRANTS AND SURPLUS    255,760   283,652   329,226   414,137
September 16, 1976



ANNEX 4
KENYA                               Table 3
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AFC Financial Statements - Cash Flow
(K sh '000)
Year Ended March 31,                --- Audited --------   Unaudited
1973      1974       1975       1976
Net Income/(Loss)                       (482)    1,128    (3,262)        398
Depreciation                            765        837      1,102     1,131
Provision for doubtful debts          2,714         54      4,821     6,016
Total cash generation            2,997      2,019     2,661      7,545
Net increase in loan funds           28,584    26,765    48,835    84,513
Decrease/(increase) in other
loans & deposits                  11,373    (8,872)   (2,364)    5,088
Total funds available           42,954    19,912    49,132    97,146
Applied to:
Net increase in loans to farmers   30,623    18,304    58,503    91,351
Decrease!(increase) inccurrent
liabilities                        2,894      1,300    (1,491)        48
Additions to fixed assets               588        636      1,742     1,397
Increase/(decrease) in debtors        2,260      2,729    (6,200)    3,348
Bad debts written off                  (266)        54       481        520
Total application of funds    36,099    23,023    53,035    96,664
Surplus/(Deficit)                     6,855    (3,111)   (3,903)        482
Opening Cash Balance                  7,275        -         -          -
Cumulative Surplus/(Deficit)         14,130    11,019      7,116      7,598
September 16, 1976.



ANNEX 4
KENYA
THLRD ACRICULOIRAL CREDIT PRW).ECI
Hon ccl torn I Finance Corp. ration - n'o loot Cash Flofw
Kc Sh 'SOD)
1              2              3             4             5              t             7             8
CASH INFLOW
From Government:
for oslendieg                                            75,320         82,468         89,707
for additional staff costs                                2,402          3,639           4,477
Repayment by borrowers:
Smallholdars:
seasonal credit I/                                                    5,508         13,952        26,227
medium-term loans 2/                                                 10,512          21,957        34,337        34,337        34,337         23,825        12,380
Mediom Scale Farmers:
seasonal credit I/                                                   14,756         30,392        46,975
medi-m_ters loans 2/                                                  2,714           5,760         8,933         8,933         8,933          6,219         3,173
Farm Impot Suppliera S/                                                   2,786          4,990         6,578         3,792         1,588
Bad Debts 4/                                                                    (725)        (1,541)       (2,461)          (941)         (897)          (601)         (311)
Late Repayments 5/                                                            (1,601)        (1,670)       (1.714)           279           220         1,482          1,449
Total Cash Inflow                         77,72Z        ZO,057        168 024        118,875        46,400        44,181         30,925        16,691
CASh OUTFLOW
Loans to Smalholders:
seasonal crnedst                                          4,9t2         lz,59           23,628
mediu-t-erm loans                                        39,847         43,384          46,931
Loans to Medium Scale Farmers:
seasonal credit                                          13,294         27,380          42,320
nediom-term loans                                        10,289         11,546          12,027
Loans to Farm Input Soppliers                                   6,928          5,480           3,950
Interest to G--ernment 6/                                                      3,195          6,715        10,570         10,570        10,570        10,570         10,570
Additional Staff Cosct                                          2,402          3,639          4,477          4,477         4,477         4,477          4,477         4,477
Total Cash totflow                        77,72Z        101,193        140,048         15.047        15,047        15,047         15,047        15,014
SDRPLUS/(DEFICIT) AVAILABLE FOR RELENDING                           __           12,864          27,976       103,828        31,353         29,134        15,878         1,644
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFPCIT)                                        __           12,864          40,840       144,668       176,021       205,155        221,033       222,677
1/    Deason- i credit repayable within ore year at 11% p.a.
2/    Mediu-term loans repayable over five years at 107 p.a.
3/    Loans to farm input soppliers repayable over three years ot 107. p.a.
4/    2b of lose  doe ossoi.ed bad is es-h year.
5/    101 of medi.m term loans do  wesre assumed late by one year
6/    Interest paid te Governoent at 4b on -edom-tarm loans and 5b on seasonal  -redit.  No repayment of capital required onder terms of this credit.
Febtuaty 16, 1977



KENYA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT III PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
FARM ~APRISLCREDIT                                 RESEARCH              FINGECREDiT
MAAEENJT                             REV IEVV         DEVELOPMENTCOT
FARIM                                                     BOARD
[~~~ .j
LOANS     lCESl   SECRETARYl  l
World Ban,k-1G325






ANNEX 5
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
First and Second Smallholder Agricultural Credit Projects
I. First Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (105-KE)
1.        In 1964 the Government of Kenya approached the Bank for an IDA
credit to help provide loans for on-farm development and for the improvement
of animal husbandry on smallholdings. This credit was to be part of a
long-term program (which had already received Bank support in 1960 under Loan
256-KE) for the consolidation of holdings in the main smallholder areas into
viable economic units with registered titles.   The project was subsequently
prepared by the Government of Kenya with assistance from the newly established
Bank resident mission in Nairobi.
2.        The First Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (105-KE) was
designed to provide medium-term loans to 8,000 smallholders in 18 of Kenya's
41 districts; the districts chosen were those with a generally high agricul-
tural potential and a reasonably well developed infrastructure. Total
project cost was estimated at US$6.0 million; this was met by an IDA credit
of US$3.6 million, and contributions of US$1.4 million from Government and
US$1.0 million from the loan recipients. At appraisal the majority of funds
were allocated to on-farm development, and smaller amounts were set aside for
tractor loans to custom hire operators, expatriate staff contracts and other
institutional services. It was estimated that only about 15% of the funds
planned for on-farm development would be spent on dairying (and related
investments in fencing, water supply, etc.), while the remainder would be
devoted to crop improvement and land clearing. The project was approved by
the Bank in early 1967.
3.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (which at that time had little
experience with smallholder loans) was executing agency for the project. The
loans were to be provided to farmers who had submitted acceptable farm invest-
ment plans; these plans were drawn up with technical assistance furnished by
field extension staff from the newly established Land and Farm Management
Division (LFMD) within the Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The individual component of the project and the source of finance
are detailed below.
K Sh million    US$ million    % of Total
Total Project Cost
On-farm development,
crop and animal
husbandry improve-
ment                           29.7             4.1             69
Tractors                          5.6             0.8             13
Expatriate technical
staff, equipment
and vehicles                    3.3             0.5              8
Additional expenses,
AFC and Government              4.3             0.6             10
42.9            6.0            100
Sources of Finance
Farmers' and contractors'
contributions                   7.0             1.0             16
AFC and Government                10.2            1.4             24
IDA credit                       25.7             3.6             60
42.9            6.0            100
A. Physical Execution of Project
5.        The project was slow in getting underway, and the development
period was therefore eventually extended from 4 to 6 years. The major
problems encountered included difficulties in the recruitment of key staff,
delays in the preparation of farm investment plans, institutional conflicts,
inadequate training and supervision of extension staff, and a shortage of
high grade dairy cattle. The project was also delayed by the fact that it
was made part of Government's long term program of consolidation of small-
holdings into viable economic units with registered titles. AFC would not
lend without evidence of a registered title, and the slow issue of titles in
project areas was a definite constraint to the lending program in the early
years.
6.        The dominant feature of project implementation was, however, the
drastic changes in the composition of the loans approved from what had been
foreseen. At appraisal it was estimated that about 85% of the investment
would be for crop development, with 15% for small dairy enterprises. In
addition about 170 tractors were to be financed to enable a proportion of the
smallholders to undertake custom work for their neighbors. In practice, over



ANNEX 5
Page 3
851% of the volume of loans approved were for dairy enterprises, and only 15%
were for crop development.  This shift was attributable not only to the
smaller risk and speedier cash return inherent in dairying, but also to the
fact that as AFC experienced difficulty in appraising and supervising the
more complicated cropping loans, it tacitly approved this change in emphasis.
7.        As a result, AFC financed between 15,000 and 20,000 head of cattle
instead of the anticipated 2,000, with correspondingly higher numbers of
ancillary units such as fencing, water tanks and dairy equipment. This
change took place in the face of a continuing shortage of suitable grade
cows, and resulted in delays of up to 12 months between loan approvals and
cattle procurement.
8.        The project's objective of bringing into production new land by
clearing an estimated 16,000 ha and deep plowing 31,000 ha was not achieved.
Nor was anywhere near the estimated quantity of fertilizers and pesticides
financed. Some very basic estimates prepared by AFC using financial records
of crop advances converted to hectares on the basis of a unit cost per
hectare, tend to indicate that in all about 7,000 ha of various crops were
financed. It is believed, however, that this was probably land already in
production.
9.        The crops to be grown under the Project were to include pineapples,
cotton, potatoes, maize and pulses. In 1968 it became obvious that there was
little interest in pineapple cultivation because of the small yields achieved
by smallholders (20 tons/ha). It was unlikely that these could be increased
to a level sufficient to cover the realtively high cost of the intensive
cultivation required (about 40 tons/ha). Cotton was also to be introduced
as a new smallholder cash crop, but identification of suitable soils on the
widely scattered smallholdings was slow and the initial delays in land
registration proved a significant factor. Shortage of seed potatoes was
another bottleneck which persisted for most of the project period. Maize
cropping was unattractive because of the controlled low prices.
10.       In addition to these crop-related difficulties, the failure of the
crop development component was also atrtibutable to the slow development of
the Ministry of Agriculture's extention services and to AFC's problems both
at the provincial level and at its highly centralized operations at the
Nairobi head office. Thus the lack of initial guidance to farmer/applicants
and the acceptance of the easier to process dairy enterprise applications
were significant factors in the change from the original project concept. In
other words, there was little chance of conveying to the farmers the concept
of bringing new land into production by deep-plowing or of the benefit to be
derived from modern crop husbandry methods including use of fertilizers and
pesticides. The farmers simply grasped the more obvious and what appeared to
be a more profitable opportunity for the use of credit. By full disbursement
on June 30, 1973, some 10,225 loans to smallholder farmers had been approved
by AFC. The average loan was between K Sh 3,000 and K Sh 4,000 and typically
was for two dairy cows, fencing, a water tank, dairy equipment and some crop
development.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
B. Project Management and Staffing
11.       The terms of the project required the Government to assign a Deputy
Director for Agriculture to act as "Project Officer". This Officer was to be
responsible for implementation of the Government's project obligations and
the coordination of the agricultural extension services related to the proj-
ect. He was further responsible for ensuring liaison between the Ministry
and AFC. Many of the early delays experienced in the project were attribut-
able to the delay of 9 months in appointing a Project Officer. At all stages
of the project, Government showed resistance to the engagement of expatriates
if they were to be financed out of the IDA Credit. Further, Government was
not prepared to offer conditions of service which would have attracted
suitably qualified candidates, as it was believed that this would create
discontent within the Kenya civil service. Instead, Government continued
to make spasmodic efforts to obtain specialists from bilateral technical
assistance sources, mainly Britain. One such specialist in farm management
was recruited in early 1971. Later that year another two farm management
specialists were obtained from Britain and were allocated responsibility for
developing farm management procedures for small-scale lending (which includes
105-KE) and the organization of farm management courses. None of the three
specialists ever worked full time for the project.
12.       Government did, however, continue to assign more or less the agreed
numbers of local staff at the provincial level. Various in-service training
programs were initiated from 1968 onwards, as practically all recruits were
new graduates or diploma holders without practical experience.
13.       The project provided for the establishment of the Land and Farm
Mianagement Division (LFMD) within the Department of Agriculture of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Most of the staff recruited for the LFMD came
straight from training establishments, attending in-service training course
run by one or two Ministry's staff on a part-time basis. As the new staff
were administratively under the control of the provincial or district senior
officers of the Ministry of Agriculture, their time was also allocated to
other duties during much of the initial project period. The basic duties of
the LFlD field staff, particularly of the Technical Assistant grade, were to
prepare a farm plan for each smallholder/applicant and to provide the tech-
nical details required on AFC's application form (generally over ten pages
long). While criticism could be levied at the quality of their work, the
fact remains that the LFMD staff did prepare the technical content of over
12,000 applications and during that time acquired much practical experience
and insight into smallholder farm management. It should be remembered that
the smallholders' farms are widely scattered and that these staff - travel-
ing on foot or bicycle in all kinds of weather - each prepared 40 to 50
applications per year. In any event, it became clear that few of the labo-
riously prepared farm budgets were followed and that their work played a
limited role in the project. Nevertheless, the creation of this functional
division in the Ministry of Agriculture was an important factor in the
execution of future smallholder credit programs.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
14.       AFC grew rapidly with the development of the Project.  However, in
general its staffing problems were similar to those of LFMD. AFC consistently
tried to draw specialist staff from bilateral technical assistance sources.
They were eventually quite successful, but for the first two years of the
project there was a consistent shortage of expatriate specialists. This was
further complicated by the departure in June 1969 of AFC General Manager, who
was replaced after an 8-month interval by USAID sponsored technician. By
1972 there were 15 additional expatriate specialists from several donor
countries incorporated into AFC's organization.
C.  Project Costs
15.       No systematic records were kept as regards types of on-farm invest-
ments made under the Project. AFC has maintained only a basic record of
disbursements for these on-farm investments and for tractors. To March 31,
1973, AFC disbursed K Sh 28.6 million for on-farm investment, of which K Sh
7.2 million represented Government's 20% contribution and K Sh 21.4 million
IDA's share. AFC estimated farmers' contribution at about 20%, giving a
total cost for on-farm investments of K Sh 35.6 million (US$$5.0 million).
Tractors and attachments absorbed only K Sh 2.6 million, and expatriate
specialist staff plus equipment and vehicle expenditures amounted to only
K Sh 2.7 million.
16.       On the basis of the above extrapolated figures, the comparison with
the appraisal estimates shows the following deviations:
Appraisal
Estimates      Actual       Deviations         %
-------------     K Sh million-----------------
On-farm development             29.7          35.6           +5.9           +20
Tractors and attachments         5.6            2.6          -2.0           -36
Expatriate technical staff       3.3            2.7          -0.6           -18
Sub-total                 38.6           40.9           -3.3             -
Additional expenses of
AFC and Government            4.3             not available
42.9
As indicated in the above table, the pattern of project development with
respect to utilization of the IDA credit is one of under-spending in cate-
gories for tractors and attachments, expatriate staff, and equipment, and
reallocation from these to increased on-farm development. It should be
noted that the lack of systematic records and the problems which plagued
AFC throughout the first project suggests that the data is subject to some
margin of error.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
D. Project Benefits
17.       AFC's records show that approximately 19,000 animals were financed
under the project. This number may not be particularly impressive if com-
pared with the national herd of 5.8 million head in 1970; however, the
project helped to elevate the standard of livestock financed. First, AFC
requires a veterinary certificate for each animal financed, ensuring that
these animals are of good quality. Second, AFC has from time to time helped
to organize several auctions involving professional brokers and breeders.
Thus, the project helped to ensure that farmer-borrowers receive animals of
reasonable quality. The measure of success of the project should be the
number of farmers it has helped and the extent to which it has increased
their incomes. Although there are no available data on this, farmers'
reaction suggests that the project was successful in this respect.
II. Second Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (344-KE)
18.       The Second Credit Project (344-KE) provided continued support for
the AFC smallholder lending program initiated under the First Project. Over
a three year period (1973-1976), it provided finance for smallholder loans
for dairy (65%), crop production (23%), poultry (3%) and farm machinery and
equipment (9%); it also included technical assistance for the Ministry of
Agriculture and AFC, as well as funds for an agricultural credit survey.
Overall some 7,800 farmers in 22 districts were expected to benefit from
the project. Total project cost was estimated at K Sh 66 million (US$9.2
million); the IDA credit of US$6.0 million financed some 64% of this, with
the remainder provided by AFC and Government (US$1.8 million) and farmers
(US$1.4 million).
19.       The K Sh 55 million provided for loans to farmers was expected to
be allocated as follows:
Total Value
Number of      Value of each        of Credit        % of
Type of Loan          Loans           Loan  K Sh       K Sh million       Total
Crop Loans            3,000             4,200               12.6            23
Livestock             4,000             9,000               36.0            65
Poultry                  700            3,000                1.9             3
Machinery                100           45,000                4.5             9
Total/Average         7,800             7,051               55.0           100



ANNEX 5
Page 7
A. Project Implementation
20.       Generally, the project progressed on schedule, and IDA funds were
fully disbursed by June 30, 1976. By that time some 12,000 loans had been
disbursed, averaging about K Sh 6,700 each; about 75% of these were for dairy
cattle and related investments, 8% for poultry and other livestock, 9% for
crop development and 13% for machinery. Actual loan commitments were slightly
in excess of funds provided under the project; this was made possible by
additional budgetary allocations from the Treasury, and by the reallocation
of unused funds for technical assistance and a credit survey. The proposed
credit survey is now being undertaken with USAID assistance.
21.       Loans actually made under the project averaged K Sh 6,700 each
(11,900 loans for a total of K Sh 80 million). This was very similar to the
average loan of K Sh 7,051 forecast at the time of appraisal - somewhat sur-
prising in view of the extent of recent inflation. The proportion of loan
funds used for the different types of loans was rather different from the
appraisal forecasts, as shown below:
Proportion of Loan                    Appraisal       Loans Commited at
Funds Used For:                      Estimate        31 December 1975
Livestock (mainly dairy)                  65                  71
Poultry                                    3                   8
Crops                                     23                   9
Machinery                                  8                  13
100                 100
22.       Overall, the project was reasonably successful in providing a
source of credit to well-managed smallholder enterprises in the better
farming districts in Kenya.  As is indicated by the high ratio of loans
requested and approved, loans for dairying proved particularly attractive to
farmers and most of the project dairy farmers showed an acceptable return on
their investment. Poultry and pig loans were of somewhat less interest; only
those farms which were well managed and had easy access to markets seemed to
be successful in these endeavors. Although the crop development loans proved
to be much less popular that anticipated, it is clear that most of the crops
financed under the project (maize, beans, potatoes, tea, and pyrethurm) were
quite successful.
23.       One of the most notable results of the project was the emergence
of AFC as an effective institution capable of administering rural credit
programs. In the course of the three years, AFC achieved significant im-
provements in its loan approval procedures and was able to give increased
attention to long term planning and loan follow-up. AFC's organizational
structure was consolidated allowing a decentralized, less time-consuming
approach to loan appraisal; fourteen of the twenty-five AFC branch offices
in the project area were authorized to approve loans up to K Sh 10,000,



ANNEX 5
Page 8
resulting in a considerable shortening of loan processing time. AFC's
overall progress was also evidenced by the gradual improvement in loan
supervision (arrears in relation to total portfolio improved from 21% in
March 1974 to 13% in September 1975), and by the fact that for the first time
in many years, AFC was able to break even for the year ending in March 1976.
24.       Except in the case of tractor loans, all AFC loans are made with
land titles pledged as security. All branch managers have the right to
foreclose and call up the security in the event of default on repayment.
As farmers value their land rights very highly this has meant that arrears
have been kept to a minimum and foreclosure on loans is not common.
25.       Some difficulties still remain, however, notably with the prepara-
tion of farm budgets and with the disbursement mechanism. The former is the
responsibility of the LFMD, which unfortunately continues to suffer from a
shortage of adequately trained staff and transportation. With regard to the
latter, AFC does not provide farmers with cash but settles suppliers' invoices
directly. This system tends to prevent abuse, although malpractices have not
been uncommon. Farmers and suppliers have in some cases connived to submit
invoices for quantities of goods in excess of those actually supplied. In
the case of dairy cattle, dishonesty has been encouraged to some extent
through the AFC limiting cattle loans to K Sh 1,200 per cow. As the price of
a dairy cow has been in the region of K Sh 2,000 and over, there has been a
temptation to submit a loan application for three cows, to purchase only two
cows with the loan, but to submit an invoice for three animals. In this way
farmers are able to cover almost the full cost of the animals. These abuses,
however, have not been excessive; in actual practice most borrowers for grade
cattle use the proceeds of the sale of their native zebu stock to make up the
differences between the loan and the market price of a grade cow. This proce-
dure is encouraged since adding cattle in most cases would lead to overstock-
ing and reducing the potential productivity of the added grade cows.
26.       Under the existing system AFC loans are authorized and recorded by
purpose, but AFC is unable to analyze their loan disbursements by type of
investment financed, as this would involve the breakdown of hundreds of
suppliers' accounts each month. Consequently, AFC statistics show the type of
loans approved, but not how the money was in fact spent; in principle there
should be little difference between the two.
B. The Effect of the 2nd Phase Smallholder Credit Project
on Agricultural Production
27.       It is not possible to make an accurate assessment of the effect
of the smallholder credit on agricultural production, because no systematic
evaluation of the project has as yet been undertaken. The project provided
credit to almost 12,000 smallholders, and while this is a significant achieve-
ment, it is still less than one percent of the farm families in Kenya. Also,



ANNEX 5
Page 9
the recipients were better farmers and credit was concentrated in the best
farming districts. A breakdown of the number and value of loans approved by
district (these are the areas covered by AFC's branch offices; they are not
necessarily the same as administrative districts) shows that 80% of the
credit was provided to ten districts (Elgeyo/Marakwet, Embu, Kakamega, Kiambu,
Kirinyanga, Meru, Muranga, Nandi, Nyeri and Karatina). These ten districts
include most of the best smallholder farming areas in Kenya. Some 23% of the
credit went to just one district - Kiambu - which is probably the best devel-
oped smallholder area in the country.
28.       There are good reasons for this concentration in the best areas.
First, it is the aim of the project to assist development of better farmers,
and they are clearly to be found in these districts. Second, the items such
as dairy cattle, pigs, poultry and tractors which were financed under the
project are also most commonly found in these districts; production conditions
are suitable, most districts are sufficiently close to markets for poultry
and pigs, and because farming is well developed there is adequate demand for
tractor and machinery hire services. The different types of loans are dis-
cussed individually below in the following sections.
Dairy Cattle
29.       Loans for the purchase of improved cattle and related investment
such as fencing, pasture improvement, and dairy equipment comprised by far
the most important loan category, accounting for about 71% of the total
credit issued. This itself is an indication of the attractiveness and
profitability of the dairy enterprise to the farmer. More than 24,000
improved grade cattle were purchased with loans under the project. As most
of these cattle originated in the large scale farming areas, the project has
played a significant role in helping to promote the transfer of improved
cattle from large to small farms.
30.       The dairy enterprise is attractive to farmers for several reasons.
In many areas there is a good market for milk, either informally, where milk
is sold locally in small quantities, or as part of the national organized
market centered on the Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC). Farmers in the
small scale farming areas normally supply KCC through their own local dairy
cooperative society which acts as collecting agent for their milk. The KCC
pays about 93 cents per kg of milk delivered to it, although farmers may re-
ceive about 80% of this after deduction of transport charges and cooperative
society levies. At this price the dairy enterprise is attractive to farmers.
In certain areas where milk is in short supply the price of milk in informal
local markets may be as much as twice the official KCC price, which makes
dairying extremely profitable. In a few other areas, however, where cooper-
ative societies are poorly organized, lack of an adequate milk market does
constrain development of dairying beyond the limits of the local demand.
31.       The dairy enterprise-is also attractive to farmers because of its
relatively low and even demand for labor throughout the year. It does not
suffer from the sharp seasonal labor peaks characteristic of annual crop



ANNEX 5
Page 10
production. The dairy enterprise can also be organized in ways which fit
in with the requirements of most farming systems, whether based on extensive
use of natural pasture with relatively low levels of purchased inputs, or,
occasionally on very intensive fodder production and zero grazing, usually
on the smallest farms.
32.       No comprehensive study has been made of the smallholder dairy
industry and only very scanty data are available on the actual (as opposed to
theoretical) technical coefficients. However, staff from the EPD/MOA visited
eight project dairy farms in early 1976. The largest of these farmers had
16.4 ha of land and 13 dairy cows, while the smallest had 0.8 ha with two
cows. Most of the farms had an average level of management, but tended to be
overstocked. Cattle mortality also seemed to have been rather high on
several farms. All farmers had planted napier grass as a forage reserve for
the dry season. Milk production per cow per year averaged almost 2,500 kg,
which is considerably higher than the overall national average yield from
grade cattle, and much greater than from zebu cattle. None of the farmers
was in arrears with his loan repayments and all made a positive gross margin
from dairying.
Summary of EightSmallholder Dairy Farms
Before         After
Item                           Unit         Credit         Credit
Amount of Credit per Farm                 K Sh            -           6,375
Number of Livestock per Farm              LU            7.1            7.3
Milk Production per Cow per Annum         Kg             513           2,489
Area of Grazing per Farm                  ha            4.25          4.30
Gross Output from Livestock               K Sh         4,358         11,208
Purchased Inputs Used for Livestock    K Sh            2,088          6,633
Gross Mlargin from Livestock              K Sh         2,269          4,575
Total Farm Gross Margin                   K Sh         4,499          7,643
Annual Livestock Labor Requirement        Mandays         189            291
Total Annual Farm Labor Requirement          "           442             605
33.       It is important to note that the number of animal units (LU) before
and after credit was almost identical. This supports the observation that
farmers are selling their zebu stock when purchasing grade cow replacements.
The fact that farmers are not increasing the land available for grazing
indicates the use of purchased inputs combined with the improved milk produc-
ing efficiency of the grade cow as the source for the increased production.
Included in the purchased inputs is the costs of establishing and fertilizing
napier grass and other appropriatd forages. Feeding the cattle and establish-
ing and cutting cultivated forages has increased the man/days per LU required
by about 25%.



ANNEX 5
Page 11
Poultry
34.       Poultry loans were more popular than expected, comprising 8% of the
total loans approved up to the end of December 1975. Most of the credit was
used for the purchase of chicks, feedstuffs and building materials. Data
from five poultry farms financed under the project are summarized below:
Summary Data from Five Poultry Farms
Amount of Credit per Farm                      K Sh               6,268
Average Number of Chicks Bought                 No                  238
Percent Mortality:  Before 6 Months            %                   10.3
6 to 18 Months             %                   9.9
Average Price per Egg Sold                      Cents              43.9
Egg Production per Hen per Year                No               154-42%
Variable production Costs per Egg              Cents               37.1
Price per Culled Hen                           K Sh                11.79
Gross Output from Poultry                      K Sh              16,656
Variable Poultry Inputs                        K Sh              14,511
Gross Margin from Poultry                      K Sh               2,146
Mandays used for Poultry                       MD                   131
Gross Margin per Manday                        K Sh                16.38
35.       On the average the five farms made a profit from their poultry en-
terprise, although the individual farm data show that two of the five farms
lost money. Only one farmer made a high profit from poultry; this was
achieved through a combination of high egg production per hen per year, low
mortality, and a high average selling price per egg. The reverse was true of
the farms losing money; these data thus support the general opinion that the
poultry enterprise can be profitable only where management standards are high
and good markets can be found for eggs. However, the high cost of inputs,
especially purchased feeds, means that there is considerable risk of losses
being made if management is not good.
36.       Extensive smailholder commercial egg production is a relatively new
form of agricultural enterprise. Market demand especially in areas close to
large population centers is providng the incentive for quality poultry prod-
ucts. There has been a continuous increae in requests for credit to finance
200-300 laying hen operations. The project provided K Sh 1.2 million for
approximately 210 poultry loans. The samples summarized above indicate the
need for improving the management of these newly established chicken farms.
The 42% average laying rate would have to be increased to at least 50% (180
per year) or better to provide a reasonable gross margin. The laying stock
available to producers through commercial hatcheries have the potential for
an excellent laying rate; it would take good management practices, however,
to bring the chickens to their maximum production.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
Pig Units
37.       Very little information is available concerning the performance of
pig enterprise financed under the project. It is believed, however, that the
position is similar to that of poultry; i.e., where management standards are
good the enterprise is profitable, but the risks of losses are high where
management is poor.
Crop Development
38.       Loans for crop production proved to be far less popular than
anticipated. Up to the end of December 1975 only nine percent of the credit
had been used for crop production loans, as compared with 23% forecast at
appraisal. Data showing the performance of crops financed under the project
are not available.  However, it is known that many of the crops which have
been financed under the project (maize, beans, potatoes and vegetables, tea,
coffee and pyrethrum) are produced profitably by smallholders.
39.       Originally crop production loans were treated as development loans
repayable over a five year period. This was not satisfactory for repayments
were falling due long after the annual crops produced with the loans had been
harvested and sold. Since 1975 AFC has only made seasonal loans available
for production of annual crops. Crop loans also tend to be smaller than
other loans, which created problems for AFC in that it is difficult to
justify making small loans given the high costs of approving and servicing
loans. AFC does have a minimum loan size of K Sh 1,000 although it is
doubtful if AFC can afford to make loans as small as these unless several
loans are approved as part of a package covering requirements for several
seasons. AFC is trying to follow the latter procedure whenever possible.
40.        Improved prices for basic commodities (maize, wheat, groundnuts
and beans) may provide the incentive for increased crop production. The
price changes have come too late to have had an impact on the Second Credit
Project demand, although by December 1975 a sharp drop in cattle loans
and a corresponding increase in crop loans had been observed in several
districts.
Machinery Loans
41.       By the end of Decembver 1975 some 13% of the credit had been used
for financing machinery loans. A total of 251 loans averaging about K Sh
40,800 each had been made by that date. This compares with 100 machinery
loans forecast at appraisal.
42.       Although machinery loans were provided to small scale farmers,
it appears that many of these tractors worked largely on settlement schemes
or large scale farms. More than 50% of the loans went to five districts
(Baringo, Elgeyo/Marawket, Kakamega, Nandi and Kericho) which border settle-
ment schemes and large scale farming areas. In contrast, few of the loans



ANNEX 5
Page 13
went to the densely settled areas in Central Province, as these areas are not
normally suited for tractor cultivation. Likewise few of the machinery loans
went to the Eastern Province. In this area much of the cultivation work is
done with oxen, and there is not the demand for contract work from large
farms as there is in the Rift Valley.
43.       An evaluation of tractors and machinery bought with loans from the
project and other experience with agricultural machinery in Kenya allowed the
following conclusions to be made:
(a) The farmers who bought tractors and machinery were well
selected by officers of the MOA and the AFC. The require-
ment of a deposit payment of 25-40% of the total machinery
costs has proved a good criterion for selection.
(b) All farmers consider contract work with their machinery
as their main occupation, the main reason for good work
performance.
(c) All machinery was in good condition, although major break-
downs had been experienced, and there were no difficulties
in obtaining spare parts.
(d) The general condition and performance of machinery owned
by small private contractors was found to be better than
communally or Government-owned machinery in the country.
(e) There is an increasing demand for agricultural contract
work in the large and small scale farming areas.
October 20, 1976



KLE N;A                                                                                   ANNEX 5
Table l
THIRD AGRLC[ILTURAI. CREDIT PROJECT
Smallbolder Agricultural Credit ProjecL - (Credit 105-KE Cosipletion Report, June 1974)
1/
Comparison of Physical and Financial Estimates at Appraisal With Actual Results
Investments
Including Farmers' Contribution
At Appraisal                                 as at March 31, 1973
Total Cost            Quiantities      Average         Total Cost
Quantities      Unit Cost         million                               Unit Cost         million
1.   On-Farm Development, Crop and Animal                                    KSh        KSh          US$                              KSh        KSh         US$
Husbandry Improvement
Heifers head                                             2,000           1,000       2.0        0.3            19,000           1,194      22.7          3.2
Fencing, acres                                           3,000             200       0.6        0.1             13,353            382       5.1          0.8
Water Supply, units                                        850           1,200       1.0        0.1              5,900          1,017       6.0          0.9
Deep plowing, acres                                     77,050             100       7.7        1.1              1.700            176       0.3            -
Land Clearing, acres                                    27,600              40       1.1       0.2              6,500             138       0.9          0.1
Fertilizers and Pesticides                                 -                -        8.9        1.2                -              -         0.7          0.1
Planting material (potato seed and pineapple
tops)              -                -        2.7       0.4                -              -         3.2          0.4
Milksheds, crush   and attachments, farms                   850            400        0.3        -               4,200            571       2.4          0.3
Sprayers, dusters and implements, farms                  8,100             140       1.1       C.1              4,000             375       1.5          0.2
Unallocated                                                                          4.3        0.6
Sub-Tctal  1                                                                29.7        4.1                                        42.8          6.0
Reallocation agreed by IDA in July 1972
(from Category III)                                                            4.5        0.6                                        _    _      _
New Sub-Total 1                                                              34.2       4.7                                        42.8          6.0
2.   Tractor Units                                               169         33,100        5.6       0.8                   76       44,737        3.4         0.5
Loss tran7fer to Category I                                                          4.5        0.6                                        _     _     _
Sub-Total  II                                                                 1.1       0.2                                         3.4          0.5
3.   Technical Staff and Equipment                                                         2.3       0.3                                          2.1          0.3
Technical Staff                                                                       0.3       0.1                                         0.7          0.1
Accountung Machine and Office Equipment                      38         18,000        0.7       0.1                                         0.7          0.1
Sub-Total  III                                                                3.3       0.5                                         3.5          0.5
Total without Estimated Additional
Expenses of AFC and Govermnent                                                   38.6       5.4                                         49.7          6.9
4.  Additional Expenses AFC, Government                                                    4.3       0.6                                         _    _      _
GRAND TOTAL                                                                         42.9        6.0                                        49.7          6.9
1/   As all "sub-totals" were in fact estimated based on summaries Rrawn from 10,225 loan files,
an allowance of any 257. must be made for error.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Smallholder Farm Credit
1.        The smallholder credit component would be a continuation of two
previous IDA assisted smallholder credit projects (Annex 5). The Project
would enable AFC to expand its credit operations in the 22 districts in-
cluded in the previous credit projects and to introduce smallholder lending
activities in an additional 6 districts. Planning of the smallholder compo-
nent has been based on experience gained in the implementation of the Second
Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project and aims at improved productivity
of the entire farm holding. All farmers who fulfill the basic qualifications
of having sufficient security for the loan and a minimum down payment of
20% of investment cost (except where the farmers' own family labor would
qualify in lieu of a downpayment) would be eligible for loans under the
Project, but preference would be given to smallholders whose farms have high
potential for growth and who are interested in the further development of
their holdings.
Crop Loans
2.        Seasonal lending for crops would be available for production of
food crops (maize, beans, groundnuts, potatoes, and bananas) and cash crops
(pyrethrum and cotton). Typical items financed would include land clear-
ing, cultivation inputs, groundnut or maize shallers, spray pumps and hired
labor. The procedure for crop loans would follow established application
and screening procedures and the registration of security over land. AFC
would then extend a loan to cover the farmers' estimated seasonal input
requirements for the next two to three years up to the proposed limit of
K Sh 20,000 (at present the limit is K Sh 15,000). The farmer would use
part of the line of credit in the first year, and would be able to utilize
seasonal credit again under the same loan provided the first year's drawing
had been fully repaid. The proposed procedure would reduce AFC's cost of
lending and would allow the farmer a certain degree of forward planning in
his operations. This farmer clientele would obviously be drawn from a more
sophisticated and commercially oriented smallholder group.
Livestock
3.        With the exception of the high rainfall areas, dairy activities
show a lower return to the farmer than most cash crops. Consequently, the
biggest increase in the number of grade cattle has taken place in high rain-
fall areas; this trend will probably continue, as milk can be produced most
economically under those conditions. In other ecological zones productivity
of the land and hence farm incomes can be increased by improving husbandry
techniques or by extending the area under crops.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        Livestock loans would, as under the First and Second Credit Proj-
ects, finance mainly dairy enterprises; experience has shown that these
operations are financially attractive, technically feasible and within the
managerial capability of most smallholders. The average loan would cover
80% of investment costs in grade cows, dairy buildings, and equipment,
fencing, pasture improvement, water supply and fodder. A program for dis-
ease control and animal sanitation would be implemented and supervised by
the veterinary services of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). Arrangements
for cattle dips under the Project would be similar to those agreed under IADP,
where the Veterinary Department would be in control of dip operation and
maintenance.
5.        Demand for poultry and pig products in Kenya is increasing.  The
Project would provide finance for the establishment of some 200 poultry
units and 144 pig units. Investments would include purchase of animals,
building materials and construction of pig and poultry sheds, small imple-
ments, water supply, food stuff, vaccines and veterinary supplies. Manage-
ment standards required for these enterprises are high. AFC would, in con-
junction with MOA, carefully scrutinize applicants for these loans.
Farm Machinery and Equipment
6.        Labor on farms which cultivate a high proportion of annual cash
crops is used inefficiently. High labor demand during approximately 50 days
of the year and lack of work or underemployment during the rest of the year
are typical of such farms. Enterprises such as tea, coffee, pyrethrum or
dairy cows distribute the labor demand more equally during the whole year
but most of these labor intensive activities depend on high rainfall. While
a labor surplus may exist during part of the year on most farms, the area
planted with annual cash crops is limited by the labor shortage during the
time of soil cultivation and weeding. While most farmers could increase
the productivity of their farms by using improved seed and fertilizer, and
by increasing the quality of husbandry standards, many farmers would also
need to expand the area under crops. Such expansion, however, would only
be possible if the critical labor constraints during land preparation,
planting and subsequent weeding can be removed.
7.        As it is uneconomical for the small scale farmer to use a tractor
exclusively on his farm, all tractors in small scale farm areas are used
for contract work. In the off-season, the availability of a trailer nor-
mally allows the farmer/contractor to meet some of the considerable demand
for short distance heavy transport in the small scale farm areas; this in
turn enables him to offer lower charges on field work.
8.        In order to satisfy the need for mechanical soil cultivation in
the areas covered by the Project, a total of 285 tractor units would be
financed under the Project. Where ox ploughing is more common in areas of
low rainfall, it would be necessary to introduce improved harness and equip-
ment for ox-cultivation as a means of substantially improving work perform-
ance. These would also be provided for under the Project.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Farm Budgets
9.        Three farm models were developed to represent the important small-
holder farming systems in the main farming areas covered by the Project.
Each model covers a broad ecological zone, the main characteristics of which
are determined by altitude, rainfall and soil conditions. The first (Table 1
- Zone A) represents farms in the highest altitude zones where crops such as
tea, pyrethrum and potatoes are grown; the second (Table 2 - Zone B) covers
the next lower zone where maize, beans, coffee and dairy cattle are important.
The third (Table 3 - Zone C) covers coastal and medium altitude areas where
cotton maize and pigeon peas are grown. The three models cover most of the
crops and the dairy activities to be financed under the Project. Pigs,
poultry and farm machinery budgets were not included in these models as these
are regarded as separate activities; Tables 4, 5 and 6 show the returns
anticipated for these three operations.
October 8, 1976



KENYA
THIIR AGRICULTURAL CPEDIT PROJECT
Model I - Smallholder Farm Zone A (3.25 ha)
(K Sh)
Without Project          --------------------------------------------------------  With Project  ----------------______
1                         2                       3                   4             5             6            7           8-20
ha         Sh           ha          Sh           ha          Sh            ha         Sh
CASH INFLOW
Crops: Maize                               1.20        1,363        1.20        1,363        1.20        3,238        1.20        3,238        3,238         3,238         3,238         3,238        3,238
Beans                              0.15          117        0.15         117         0.15         357         0.15          357          357           357           357          357           357
Potatoes                           0.10          210        0.10         210         0.20         805         0.20       1,610         1,610         1,610         1,61o        1,610         1,61o
Pyrethrum                            -           -            -          -             -           -          0.20          -            500           500           500          500           500
Livestock - Dairy production 3/                        1,224                    1,224                    3,086                    3,172        3,172         3,172         3,172         3,172        3,172
Napier grass                                  -                       -                        -                      0.25
Natural pasture                            1.8                      1.8                      1.7                      1.25
Total income                                      2,914                    2,914                   7,486                     8,377        8,877         8,877         8,877        8,877         8,877
AFC loan V /                                                                    1,40                     6,423                      891                                      -             -             -
Total cash inflow                                 2.914                   4.316                    13,19n                    9,268        8,877         8,877         8.877         .877        3,877
CASH OUTFLOW
Crops: Maize                                             270                    1,034                    1,034                    1,034        1,034         1,034         1,034         1,034         1,034
Beans                                             62                     174                       174                      174          174           174           174           174          174
Potatoes                                         150                     376                      752                       752          752           752           752          752           752
Pyrethrum                                        -                        -                        _                        296          296           296           296          296           296
Livestock 3/                                             570                      570                    6,369                    1,190        1,190         1,190         1,190         1,190         1,190
Overheads                                                _                        300                      300                      300           300          300           300           300           300
Total costs                                       1,152                    2,454                    8,629                    3,746        3,746         3,746         3,746         3,746         3,746
Loan repayment                                           -                        -                      1,556                    3, 220        2            t,219         1,219         1,219        -
Total cash outflow                                1,052                    2,454                   10,185                    6,966         5,954        4,965         4,965         4,965         3,746
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                               1       862                    1 862                    3,724                    2,30291                                   _912         3,912
Year 2 includes K Sh 1,500 froa sale of native cows.
Seasonal credits Year 1 K fh 1,402, Year 2 K Sh 1,803, Year 3 K Sh 991 repayable in 1 year O 11% p.a.
Medim term credit in year 1 for purchase of two cows 80% of K Sh 5,774 = K Sh 4,620 repayable over 5 years a 10% p.a.
Year 2 includes cost of two grade cws and dairy equipment K Sh 5,774.
Febrsary 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model II - Smallholder Farm Zone B (5.3 ha)
Without Project- -------_-------___________________ _With Project  -------------------------------------------------
1                        2                         3                    4             5             6           7-20
ha         Sh            ha          Sh            ha         Rh            ha          Sh
CASH INFLOW
Crops: Maize                                1.3         1,846         1.3         1,846        1.3         4,160         1.7        4,160         5,432          5,432        5,432         5,432
Beans                               0.1           78         0.1            78         0.1          238         0.5           238         1,190         1,190         1,190         1,190
Livestock - Dairy production 9/                         2,448                     5,448                    6,344                     6,344        6,344          6,344        6,344         6,344
Napier grass                                                          0.3                      0.3                       0.5
Natural pasture                             3.5                      3.2                       3.                        2.6
Total income                                      4,372                     7,372                   10,742                    10,742        12,966        12,966        12,966        12,966
AFC loan                                                                         10,100                    1,3' 0                    1,20.           -             -
Total cash inflow                                 4,372                    17,372                   12,082                    11,947        12,966        12,966        12,966        12,966
CASH OUITFLOW
Crops:  Maize                                             693                     1,793                    1,793                    2,344         2,344          2,344         2,344        2,344
Beans                                             41                       114                      114                       568           568           568           568           56B
Livestock 3y                                            1,140                   12,098                     2,380                    2,380         2,380          2,380         2,380        2,380
overheads                                                 -                         150                      300                       500           500           500           500           500
Total cost                                        1,874                    14,155                    4,587                     5,792         5,792         5,792         5,792         s,792
Loan repayment                                                          -                                  3,827                     3,789         3,640         2,302         2,302
Total cash outflow                                1,874                    14,155                    8,414                     9,581         9,432         8,094         8,094         5,792
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      2,498                     3,217                    3,668                     2,366         3,534         4,872                       7,174
1   Income in year 1 includes income from sale of six local cows a K Sh 500 each (replaced by 4 grade cows).
2   Seasonal credits Year 1 K Sh 1,374, Year 2 K Sh 1,340, Year 3 E Sh 1,205 repayable in 1 year f 11% p.a.
Medium term credit in Year 1 for purchase of 4 grade cows and dairy equipment 909k of K Sh 10,908 = K Sh 8,726 repayable over 5 years fi 10% p.a.
3  Year 1 includes cost of 4 grade cows and dairy equipment at K Sh 2,727 = K Sh 10.90R.
February 16, 1977



THIRO A3FRIC1YTC1A. ZR'53- <R 7 '-
Model III - Smallholder Fars Zone C (7.1 ha)
'Y Sh)
Without Project          -------------------------------                          With Project  -------------------------------------------------
I                         2                         3                   4             S             6           '-20
ha           Sh          ha            Sh          ha           Sh          ha            Sh
CASH TIFLOW
Crops:  Mlaize                              0.9           568        1.1           568         1.3         1,952         1.3        2,308         2,308         2,308         2,308         2,308
Beans                               0.2          l30         0.2           130        0.4           340         o.4           68c           690           630          6PC            69o
Cotton                              0.2          149         0.2           149        1.0           371         1.0         1,356         i,856         l1356         1,956         1.356
Pigeon peas                         0.2          203         0.2           203        0.2           203         0.2           203           203           203           203           203
S.rghum                             0.3          135          -            135                      - -          -                          -      -                    -             -
Livestock - Cattle 11                        -          2,o4o         -          2,040          -          4,080          -         4.0o0         4,o09         4.0qO         4.o8o          4.o8o
Natural pasture                             5.2          _           5.2         _                                                                                                            _
Total income                                      3,225                     3,225                     6,946                    9,127         9,127         9,127         9,127         9,127
APC loan                                                  -                      2.657                     2,365                      525
Total cash inflow                                 3,225                     5,882                     9,311                    9,652         9,127         9,127         9,127         9,127
^AS'd UJTtOW
'rops:  Maize 2                                           180                      948                     1,121                    1,121         1,121         1,121         1,121          1,121
Beans                                             33                       232                      464                       464           464           464           464           464
Cotton                                            79                        79                      893                       893           893           893           89q            593
Pigeon peas                                       95                        95                        95                       95            95            95            95             95
Sorghum                                          113                       -
Livestock j/                                              950                    2,700                     1,900                    1,900         1,900         1,900          1,900         1,900
.verheads                                                100                       250                      250                       250           250           250           250           250
Soil conservation                                         -                        _                         525                      525           -             -              -             -
Total costs                                       1,60o                    4,304                     s,248                     5,248         4,723         4,723         4,723         4,723
Loan repayment 4/                                         -                        -                       2,45                     2,794           752            169           169
Total cash outflow                                1,600                     4,304                    7,656                     8,o42         5,475         4,892         4,892          4,723
NFT STJRPLPS/(DEFICIT)                                     165                      178                       1655                     1610           3.652         4.235         4 235         4.404
1'  Based on five units of local dairy cattle.  From year 2 income increases based on lower stocking rate and additional income from contract use of oxen and equipment.
/  Maize, beans and cotton area to be expanded and improved crop cultural practices introduced.
3/ Increased expenditure in year 1 include Y Sh 800 cost of ox equipment.
/ Seasonal loans repaid in one year at 11% p...  Co-t of 00 equipment over fie years at 10% p.a.
February 16, 1977



ARNEE 6
Table 4
KENYA
TRIRI ASRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Smellholder Farg - Five SNa Pig Colt Ceab FloN
(K Sh)
1           2             3             4             5             6             7             8             9            to           11-20
CASH ISFLOW
Sale of Pigs                                      -        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923         37,923
AFC lo.  1/                                   19 830                                      -                           - 3,400  - 
Total c.sh inflo                         19,830       37,923        37,923        37,923        41,323        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923        37,923         37,923
CASH OUTFLOI
Variable c0s1t                                 15,536       31,071       31,071        31,071        31,071        31,071        31,071        11,071        31,071        32,134 2/      32,134
Overhe.d costs 3/                                 -         1000          1,000         1,000         1,000       1J000           1,000         1,000         1,000         1.000          1 000
Totol "oIts                              15,536       32,071        32,071        32,071        32,071        32,071        32,071        32,071        32,071        33,134         33,134
Capital Kovestbnt                               9,250          -             -             -          4,250           -             -             -           4,250
Loan repayment                                    -         15,231        5,231         5,231         5,231         6,128           897           897           897           897
Total cash oatfle                        24,786       37,302        37,302        37,302        41,552        38,199        32,968        32,968        37,218        34,031         33,134
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                             (4.936)         621          6,21          62E                                                                                              4 - 789_
1/  First year's inv-.tnent is as follows
Five sIns               K Sh           3,750
Half share of boat                       500
Piggery                                5,000
% y     -ar variable costs            15.536
Total              K Sh          24,786      loan from AFC 807  =  K Sh 19,830 repayable over 5 years @ 1 %
Loan for r-placenn-t of sowa and boar is year -    on sane otres free ye-r 9 o.-erdo far-er can replaoe sans fran his ow  so-roes
27 Includes K Sh 1,063 representing 1 of coat of replacen.-t of ses
3/  Includes dopreciati-n and - inteo...e of piggery.
Fnb--ary Ih1  7q7



ANNEX 6
Table 5
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT EROJECT
Smallholder Farm - 325 Bird Poultry Unit Cash Flow
(K Sh)
1            2              3             4              5             6            7-20
CASH INFLOW
Sales:  Eggs 1/                                     -         32,500         32,500        32,500         32,500        32,500         32,500
Culled hens 2/                             -            _            2,400                        2,400          2,400         2,400
Total income                                  -          32,500        34,900         34,900        34,900         34,900         34,900
AFC loan 3/                                       9,580           -             -              -             -              -              -
Total cash inflow                           9,580       32,500         34,900         34,900        34,900         34,900         34,900
CASH OUTFLOW
Cost of rearing chicks                            7,258        4,839          4,839         4,839          4,839         4,839          4,839
Variable cost for layers                            -         20,272         20,272        20,272         20,272         20,272        20,272
Overhead costs 4/                                   250          500            500            500           500            500           500
Total costs                                 7,508       25,611         25,611         25,611        25,611         25,611        25,611
Investment in building                            4,466          -              -              -             -              -             -
Loan repayment                                      -          2,527          2,527          2,527         2,527          2,527            -
Total cash outflow                         11,974       28,138         28,138         28,138        28,138         28,138         25,611
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                               (2,394)        4.36?         6,762          6.762         6
1/  It was assumed that day old chicks are bought in the first year and commence laying in the second year.
2/ Poultry are culled and replaced every 18 months. The figures represent an annual average.
3/  Loan represents 80% of investment cost in buildings, rearing chicks and overheads.  It is repayable over 5 years at 10%.
4/ Includes replacement and maintenance of buildings.
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 6
KENYA
THIRD AGRICnLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Smallholder Farm - Tractor Unit Cash Flew
(K Sh)
1           2            3            4             5            6            7             8            9            10
CASH INFLOW
Income from:  Ploughing 11                  28,167      42,250        42,250       42,250       42,250        42,250       42,250       42.250        42,250       42,250
Transport                     25,750      38,625       38,625        38,625       38,625       38,625        38,625       38,625       38.625        38,625
Total income                           53,917      80,875        80,875       80,875       80,875        80,875       80,875       80,875        80,875       80,875
AFC loan 2/                                 87,400         _             -            -             -            -            -             -         87,400          -
Total cash inflou                     141,317      80,875        80,875       80,875       80,875        80,875       80,875       80,875       168,275       80,875
CASH OUTFLOW
Variable coszs                              33,276       49,914       49,944       49,914       49,914        49,914       49,914       49,914        49,914       49,914
I-surance & housing                          2,893        2.893        2.893        2.893         2,893        2.893        2,893        2,893         2,893        2,893
Total costs 3/                         36,169      52,807        52,807       52,807       52,807        52,807       52,807       52,807        52,807       52,807
Capital in-estmnat 2/                      109,250          -            -            -             -            -            -             -        109,250          -
Loan repapynet                                  -        23,056       23,056       23,056        23,056       23,056          -                          -         23,056
Totai cash outflov                    145,419      75,863        75,863       75,863       75,863        75,863       52,807       52,807       162,057       75,863
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                           (4,102)      5,012        5,012        5,012         5,012        5,012       28,068        28,068        6,218        5,012
I/ First years i-come assa-ad at t,o thirds of normal year.
2! Cost of Plough        K 01    90,000
Trailer              10,500
Plough                3,750
Total     K SI  109,250   Loan 80O  = K Sh 87,400 repayable over 5 years at 10% p.a.
3, Costs do not include replacement co0t, therefore fermers uould have to borrow a.aio to repuIce his equipment.
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Medium-Scale Commercial Farm Credit
Project Credit
1.        The proposed Project would include a credit component aimed speci-
fically at medium-scale farms. These farms range in size from 20 to 400 ha,
and are generally located on high potential agricultural land in the Rift
Valley Province. The majority of the farms were purchased by Kenyan nationals
from their former European owners with financial assistance from the Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation (AFC) which provided long term loans secured by a
mortgage on the land. At the present time, the farms although quite often
well managed, are seriously under-capitalized. As the owners lack additional
security, they are unable to obtain the medium and short-term credit necessary
for the purchase of farm inputs and machinery.
2.        The Project would allow for the extension of credit to those
farms which are currently well managed and operated. Otherwise the only
restriction placed on eligibility would be that the farmer be unable to
obtain credit elsewhere on reasonable terms. Credit would be channelled to
the farmers through AFC. Farmers interested in obtaining loans would apply
to AFC, where their applications would be evaluated by the Appraisal Depart-
ment to be established under the Project. The Department would help train
AFC in project appraisal techniques, and would be headed by an internation-
ally recruited credit specialist experienced in the appraisal of agricultural
credit specialist experienced in the appraisal of agricultural loans. The
selection criteria outlined below would be among those utilized by the Divi-
sion in the final selection of borrowers:
(a) proven, capable farmers with realistic investment plans
and farm budgets;
(b) agreement to plant selected crops and to follow approved
husbandry practices; and
(c) creditworthiness, i.e. reasonable outstanding debt allowing
an adequate debt service capability.
The selection process would be carried out with the assistance of LFMD
District Officers, and loan applications would be submitted to the Dis-
trict Agricultural Committees for final approval.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        The farmers would be expected to contribute 25% of the expected
total farm development costs for the loan period. The borrowing limit would
be set at K Sh 150,000 per farmer.
4.        AFC and LFMD would exercise joint responsibility for supervising
the application of the loan proceeds. In the case of development loans,
this supervision would follow established practice. Seasonal credit would
generally be provided in conjunction with development loans, and would be
considered as a substitute for loans under the Guaranteed Minimum Return
(GMR) Scheme.
Farm Models
5.        To illustrate the impact of credit availability on these farms,
two models were developed representing average medium size mixed farms of
200 ha. Both farms would have a cereal (either wheat or maize) as the main
crop with oilseeds in rotation. The models are based on an intensification
of producti-on on existing areas and an increase in productive acreage by
conversion of fallow land to crops. This would be made possible through
the provision of medium term credit for capital development and seasonal
credit for inputs.
6.        In the first model (Table 1) it was assumed that wheat yields
would improve by 450 kg/ha, that the area under wheat would be increased
from 40 ha to 50 ha in the second year, and that an additional 20 ha of
rapeseed would be introduced. In addition, to facilitate more intensive
livestock production, 20 ha would be put to grass leys in the first year;
this would be increased to 40 ha in the second year and 60 ha in the third
year.
7.        The second model (Table 2) assumes the present maize yields would be
improved by 1,350 kg/ha, and that the area under maize would be expanded from
30 ha to 50 ha by bringing an additional 10 ha a year under cultivation. The
area under crops would also be increased by the introduction of 20 ha of
sunflower. In addition 60 ha of grass leys would be established at the rate
of 20 ha each year.
8.        It was assumed in both models that:
(a)  A loan of K Sh 140,000 was originally obtained from AFC for
the purchase and development of the farm; this loan is
repayable over 20 years at 9% p.a.; and that the final
payment would be made in year 16 of the Project.
(b)  A loan of K Sh 45,000 for purchase of stock and machinery
was also obtained from AFC; this loan is repayable over 5
years at 9% p.a., with final payment being made in the first
year of the Project.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(c) The old machinery would be sold in the first Project year
for a total of K Sh 28,000, and a new loan would be obtained
for purchase of a tractor unit comprising:
Tractor              K Sh 105,000
Plough                       8,700
Disc Harrow                 11, 750
Seed Drill                  15,000
Total           K Sh 140,450
Of the total cost of this machinery, a downpayment of at
least 25% would be required leaving approximately K Sh
105,000 to be financed under the Project. This loan would
be repaid over 5 years at 10% p.a.
(d) Machinery utilization around the farm would be about 960
hours which would allow 290 hours for contract work annually.
9.        Both models show that. without the Project, the farmer's net income
before debt service would be about K Sh 35,000 from the wheat farm and K Sh
34,000 from the maize farm. After debt service of about K Sh 27,000 the
cash surplus would be approximately K Sh 8,000 and K Sh 7,000 respectively.
The debt service ratio at this point would be 130%. Following the imaple-
mentation of the Project, the farmer's increased borrowing would leave him
with a cash deficit only during the first year, assuming that all seasonal
credit requirements would be repaid within the same year in each of the
first three years. At full development (year 4), the net income before
debt service would be about K Sh 75,000 from the wheat farm and about
K Sh 78,000 from the maize farm; the debt service ratio in both cases
would be about 170%.
October 8, 1976



ANNEX /
Table 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model I - 200 ha dheat Farm Cash Flow
(< Sh)
Without Project                             -      2With Project  ----------- ---------------
1                   2                       3
Unit         Sh      llit           Sh      Unit         Sh       Unit          Sh         4-6           7-16         17-20
CASH INFLOW
Gross income
Crops:  Wheat (ha)                           40       69,400        40      61,400        50       91,080       50       113,850      113,850      113,850       113,850
Rape seed (ha)                       -           -         -           -         20       49,360       20        49,360       49,360       49,360        49,360
Livestock:  Beef (sos.)                      100       50,690      108       5,1,745     116       72,894      125        93,750       93,750       93,750        93,750
Sheep (units)                  120       23,760      120       27,360       120       30,960      120        34,560       34,560       34,560        34,560
Machine contracting                           -           -         -           -         -        35,200       -         35,200       35,200        35,200       35,200
Grass leys (ha)                                  -                     20                    40                    60
Permanent pasture (ha)                          150                   130                    80                    60
Non-productive land (ha)                         10       _            10                    10 IO                 10
Total income                                       143,850               151,505               279,494                 326,720      326,720      326,720       326,720
Sale of old equipment                                        -                  28,000                   -                       -            -            -             -
AFC loan 1/                                                  -                 126,400                44,100                 17300-                          
Total casa  inflow                                 143,850               30i,905               323,594                 344,020      326,720      326,720       326,720
CASH OUTFLOW
Production costs:  Wheat                                  50,160                51),160               57,920                 72,400        72,400       72,400       72,400
Rape seed                               -                     -                  25,320                 25,320        25,320       25,320       25,320
Beef                                 33,250                3'5,910               49,544                 65,213        65,213       65,213       65,213
Sheep                                 8,880                1n,080                11,280                 12,480        12,480       12,480       12,480
Machine operating costs                                      -                     -                  23,200                  23,200       23,200       23,200       23,200
Fined costs and overheads                                 16,000                2:,000                32,000                 36,000        36,000       36,000       36,000
Machine replacement 2/                                       -                     -                  17,556                  17,556       17,556       17,556       17,556
Total costs                                        108,290               12'150                 216,820                252,169      252,169      252,169       252,169
Capital investment                                           -                 14(1,450                  -                       -            -            -             -
Loan repayment:
Existing development loan 3/                           26,900                2b,900                15,330                 15,330       15,330        15,330
New loans:  Machinery                                     -                     -                  27,703                 27,700       27,700           -
Seasonal credit                              -                 2: ,750               48,950                  19,200          -             --
Total cauh outflos                              135,190               31Z,250               308,800                314,399       295,199      267,499      252,169
NET SIURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                        8,660                (E ,435)              14,794                 2,621        31,521       59,221       74_ 551
1/  Loans are 75% of investment cost - seasonal loans repayable in one year at 117. p.a., medium term lons over 5 years at 10% p.a.
2/ Average over tle life of the machines of 8 years.
3/  Existing debt as follows:  Land improvement loan of K Sh 140,000 at 9% p.a. repayable over 20 years (complete repayment year 16)
Stock and machinery loan K Sh 45,000 at 97 repayable over 5 years (complete repayment year 1).
February 16. 1977



ANNEX 7
Table 2
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model I1 - 200 ha Maize Farm Cash Flow
(K Sb)
Without Project                                                                 W With Project ______ -___________-_
1 _______2                                          3                   4-6           7-16          17-20
Ulit         Sh         Unit         Sh          Unit        Sh          Unit         Sh
CASH INFLOW
Gross income
Cropo:  Maize (ha)                            30        64,320         30        eo,450        40       128,600         50       160,750       160,750        160,750       160,750
Sun flower (ha)                      -             -          -            -          10        22,800         20        45,600         45,600        45,600         45,600
Livestock - dairy products (8os,)             82        83,558         82        93,558        82       113,656         82       123,656        123,656       123,656        123,656
Machine contracting                           -             -          -            -          -          35,200        -         35,200         35,200        35,200         35,200
Grass leys                                        -                       20                      40                       60
Permanent pasture                               160                      140                     100                       60
Non-productive land                              10                       10          _            10                      10
Total incone                                         147,878                 174,008                  300,256                  365,206       365,206        365,206       365,206
Sale of old equipmnt                                           -                    28,000                      -                        -                            -             -
AFC loan 1/                                                    -                   139,400                   36,500                  39,000                   -                     -
Total cash inflow                                 147,878                 341,408                  336,756                 404,206        365,206       365,206        365,206
CASH OUTFLOW
Production costs:  Maize                                   52,800                   63,600                  84,800                  106,000        106,000       106,000        106,000
Sun flower                                -                       -                     14,180                  28,360         28,360        28,360         28,360
Dairy                                 50,840                   55,840                  71,096                   76,096         76,096        76,096         76,096
Machine operating costs                                        -                        -                    23,200                  23,200         23,200        23,200         23,200
Fined costs and overheads                                   10,000                  26,000                   32,000                  36,000         36,000        36,000         36,000
Machine replacement 2/                                                                 -                     17,556                  17,556         17,556        17,556         17,556
Total costs                                          113,640                 145,440                  242,832                  287,212       287,212        287,212       287,212
Capital investment                                             -                   140,450                      -                        -             -              -             -
Loan repayment:
Existing development loan 3/                            26,900                   26,900                  15,330                   15,330        15,330         15,330
New loans:  Machinery                                       -                       -                     27,700                  27,700         27,700           -
Seasonal credit                               -                     38,180                  40,510                   43,290            -             -              -
Total cokh outflow                                140,540                 350,970                  326,372                 373,532        330,242       302,542        287,212
NET SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                           3                       (9562)                  10,384                   30,674        34,964         62,664        77,994
1/  Loans are 75% of investment cost - seasonal  loans repayable in one year at 11K p a, medimd             em ln  over 5 years at 107 p.a.
2/ Average over the life of the m-chines of 8 years.
3/  Existing debt as follows:  Land improvement loan of K Sh 140,000 at 9% p.a. repayable over 20 years (cosplata repayment year 16).
Stock and mechinery loan K Sh 45,000 at 97 repaya:le over 5 years (complete repayment year 1).
Februory 16, 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        The evaluation of Smaliholder Credit Projects 105-KE and 344-KE
has relied on incidental monitoring and reporting of individual districts,
linked with analysis of the records of the Agricultural Finance Corpora-
tion. This rather spasmodic evaluation effort has, however, not resulted
in clear indications as to the degree to which these projects, and in par-
ticular the investments they were designed to facilitate, have helped the
smallholders to increase their production and incomes.
2.        With greater emphasis being placed by Government on development
projects in small farm areas, a comprehensive national system for project
monitoring and evaluation is required. The following steps are now being
taken to reach this objective:
(a) The initiation of the Integrated Rural Survey.
(b) The establishment of a Project Evaluation Unit
within the Econonic Planning Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
(c) The implementation of a pilot scheme for monitor-
ing and evaluation of specific aspects of the
Smallholder Production Credit and Services
Project (SPCSP).
Integrated Rural Survey
3.        The Integrated Rural Survey (IRS) was initiated by the Bureau of
Statistics, Ministry of Finance and Planning, in 1974. IRS is part of the
National Integrated Sample Survey Program (NISSP) system for collecting
information on socio-economic trends. The objective of the IRS is to provide
basic statistics on rural areas.
4.        The first IRS was undertaken in a few pre-selected areas in 1975,
and the initial results were available in early 1976. The experience with
IRS-75, which was essentially a pilot survey, has been used to formulate
the IRS-76 program now being carried out. Although coverage is limited for
the moment, the IRS would ultimately be extended to all small and medium-scale
commercial farming areas. In principle, the IRS will be adaptable to speci-
fic needs and/or areas, but such degree of sophistication cannot be expected
in the near future.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Project Evaluation Unit
5.        The Ministry of Agriculture is currently implementing a scheme
to strengthen and expand the activities of the Economic Planning Division
(EDP), to enable it to play a more positive role in forward planning within
the t1inistry. This reorganization proposes to establish a Project Evalua-
tion Unit which would be in charge of continuous, and impartial evaluation
of on-going agricultural projects. This effort would be supported under
the proposed Project by the provision of additional staff for the Evaluation
Unit (or the Central Bureau of Statistics); these staff would include Senior
Statistical Officers (4), Investigators (14), Drivers (4) and a Clerk.
Provision would also be included for the employment of consultants if this
should prove necessary.
6.        The Evaluation Unit would rely on statistics produced annually
by the Central Bureau of Statistics; on information from records main-
tained by individual projects; and/or data produced by technical divisions
of the Ministry, such as the Land and Farm Management Division on farm
management data. Where necessary these sources of information would be
supplemented by surveys, spot checks and monitoring in the field, under-
taken by the Unit itself.
Monitoring System of SPCSP
7.        The Smallholder Production Credit and Services Project (SPCSP)
is a USAID supported project to help develop systems for assisting subsis-
tence farmers. It includes the formulation of a system for monitoring
progress of both the individual participants and of a project as a whole.
8.        The monitoring and evaluation process is being undertaken by con-
sultants on behalf of the Government and will continue for three years. It
aims at establishing the status of farm units in different areas prior to
participation in the SPCSP. Subsequently, it will measure on an annual
basis the impact of the project's provisions on participating farmers.
9.        A specific questionnaire has been developed for this monitoring
system by the Bureau of Education Research (Nairobi University). Through-
out this evaluation close liaison will be possible to formulate a system
most appropriate for the long term, continuous evaluation of progress in
the small farm sector in Kenya.
Long-Term Objectives for Small Farm Sector Project Evaluation
10.       The MIOA is discussing with the Central Bureau of Statistics the
possibility of collecting information on specific agricultural project
developments, through the IRS data collection system. Such a linkage would
be of great interest, in that the IRS generally provides the control data
against which project achievements in particular districts or divisions
could be measured. However, IRS is at present not yet well established,
and would, for the next 2 years, only be able to produce generalized control



ANNEX 8
Page 3
data by project district pertaining to project assisted farmers. Thus,
although the linkage discussed above is the ultimate objective, evaluation
of agricultural projects would require interim measures. Consequently, for
purposes of the proposed Project, the on-going system of farm management
analysis now being undertaken in limited areas by the LFMD of MOA would be
expanded to all districts in which the Project would operate.
11.       The objective of this analysis would be to assess the performance
of both small and medium farms. This would include gross margin analysis of
the different enterprises involved, as well as identification of the fixed
costs of the business. Labor utilization would be assessed and the con-
straints on development identified. Recording and analysis of farm manage-
ment data would be undertaken by district LFMD officers and subsequently
checked at provincial and headquarter levels.
12.       The farm management analysis would be closely coordinated with
AFC's appraisal training and field application evaluation of medium-scale farm
appraisals. The statistical data to be gathered by the evaluation teams
would provide an excellent background resource for the comprenhensive
appraisals of medium-scale farm applications.
Analysis of Key Project Objectives
13.       An analysis of key Project objectives would be carried out by the
Central Bureau of Statistics, in cooperation with MOA staff. The exact
format of this evaluation procedure is still under discussion, but it would
most likely take the following shape:
(a) MOA would define the key objectives of a particu-
lar project (in this case the Third Agricultural
Credit Project) and would indicate the type of
information, and frequency of collection required
for a meaningful agricultural analysis.
(b) The Central Bureau of Statistics would develop a ques-
tionnaire incorporating the information under (a); its
staff would be utilized for the collection and processing
of this data.
(c) MOA would receive the results from the Central Bureau
of Statistics and analyze it. IRS information would
also be used where appropriate, particularly for com-
parison purposes.
As the Project is directed towards specific enterprises, evaluation could
be best achieved by specifying the required information by enterprise or
credit supported activity, and analyzing it individually. The Central
Bureau of Statistics would be able to assist MOA in both formulation
of questionnaire, collection of data, and analysis of results.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
14.       Every effort would be made to maintain contact with the technical
assistance team from the Harvard Institute for International Development
(HIID). The HIID team will be assisting the MOA in the formulation of agri-
cultural policy, project preparation, implementation and monitoring.
December 7, 1976



ANNEX 9
Table I
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(K Sh '000)
----Project: Year-------
1         2          3        Total
Smallholders
Crops                           5,743      8,262    11,220      25,225
Livestock                      35,663    35,952    35,951    107,566
Farm machinery                 10,456    10,557    10,608       31,621
Sub-total                 51,862    54,771    57,779    164,412
Medium Scale Farmers
Crops                          16,412    16,412    16,390       49,214
Livestock development           6,020      6,520      6,020     18,560
Farm machinery                  6,683      6,683      6,707     20,073
Sub-total                 29,115    29,615    29,117       87,847
Input Suppliers                      6,415     4,700      3,135     14,250
Technical Assistance
MOA                             2,955      2,615      2,600      8,170
AFC                             2,224      3,121      3,553      8,898
Sub-total                  5,179      5,736     6,153      17,068
Total Base Cost                     92,571    94,822    96,184    283,577
Price Contingencies                  7,405    15,740    25,008      48,153
Total Project Cost                  99,976   110,562   121,192    331,730
February 16, 1977



ANNE:i
Table 2
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cost Including Contingencies
(K Sh '000)
---Project Year-------
1         2          3         Total
Smallholders
Crops                            6,202     9,633    14,138       29,973
Livestock                       38,516    41,920    45,298    125,734
Farm machinery                  11,293    12,310    13,366       36,969
Sub-total                 56,011    63,863    72,802    192,676
Medium Scale Farmers
Crops                           17,725    19,136    20,651       57,512
Livestock development            6,501     7,602      7,585      21,688
Farm machinery                   7,218     7,793      8,451      23,462
Sub-total                 31,444    34,531    36,687    102,662
Input Suppliers                      6,928      5,480     3,950      16,358
Technical Assistance
MOA                              3,191     3,049      3,276       9,516
AFC                              2,402     3,639      4,477      10,518
Sub-total                  5,593      6,688      7,753     20,034
Total Project Cost                  99,976   110,562   121,192    331,730
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 3
Y-ENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs - Investment in Crops
(K Sh '000)
----------Project Year--------
1          2           3        Total
Smallholders:
Land preparation                   1,449       2,047       2,659       6,155
Seeds                                781       1,153       1,679       3,613
Fertilizer                         2,218       3,095       4,177       9,490
Chemicals                            444         678         968       2,090
Labor                                487         774       1,059       2,320
Miscellaneous                        364         515         678       1,557
Sub-total                     5,743       8,262     11,220      25,225
Medium-scale Farmers:
Machinery requirements             6,985       6,985       6,985      20,955
Seeds                              1,330       1,330       1,320       3,980
Fertilizers                        4,590       4,590       4,580      13,760
Chemicals                            383         383         381       1,147
Labor                                844         844         844       2,532
Bags                               1,822       1,822       1,822       5,466
Transport                            458         458         458       1,374
Sub-total                    16,412     16,412      16,390      49,214
Total Cost                           22,155      24,674      27,610      74,439
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 4
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs - Investment in Livestock
--------Project Year---------
1          2           3        Total
Smallholder:
Dairy Units 1/
Number                        4,440       4,480       4,480      13,400
Cost (K Sh '000)             33,602      33,890      33,890    101,382
Poultry Units 2/
Number                           66          67          67         200
Cost (K Sh '000)                822         822         822       2,466
Pig Units 3/
Number                           48          48          48         144
Cost (K Sh '000)              1,239       1,240       1,239       3,718
Total Cost (K Sh '000)                35,663     35,952      35,951    107,566
1/ The dairy unit is based on 75% 2-cow units and 25% 4-cow units i.e. an
average of 2.5-cows per unit.
2/ 300 chicken poultry unit.
3/ 5 sow pig unit.
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 5
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs - Investments in Livestock
(K Sh '000)
---------Project Year --------
1           2          3        Total
Medium-scale Farmer:
Establishment of leys              2,520       2,520       2,520       7,560
Fencing                            1,000       1,000       1,000       3,000
Water supply                       1,000       1,500       1,500       4,000
Buildings                            750         750         500       2,000
Other                                750         750         500       2,000
Total Cost                             6,020      66520       6,020      18,560
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 6
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs - Investment in Machinery
(K Sh '000)
---------Project Year-------------
1              2               3            Total
No.   Cost      No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost
Smallholders:
Tractor units 1/    95   10,400    95   10,400   95   10,400  285   31,200
Maize shellers       49        28   183        106  228       132  460       266
Sprayers            108        28   197         51  294        76  599       155
Sub-total            10,456           10,557         10,608         31,621
Medium-scale Farmers:
Tractor              48    5,250    38    4,115   38    5,250  144   15,750
Ploughs              35       317    35        254   37       341  108       975
D. Harrows           24       293    18        230   18       293   72       879
Drills               36       560    28        439   28       560  108    1,680
Trailers             24       263    18        206   18       263   72       789
Sub-total             6,683            6,683          6,707         20,073
Total Cost                    17,139          17,240          17,315         51,694
1/  Tractor unit = 1 tractor + 1 plough + 1 trailer at a total cost of
K Sh 108,700.
February 16, 1977.



ANNEX 9
KENYA                                    Table  7
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs - AFC Technical Assistance
(K Sh ' 000)
------------Project Year--------------
1             2             3
No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.  Cost        Total
Capital Investment:
Vehicles                              6      230    5        194    3      116       540
Office equipment                             135              90            90       315
Sub-total                               365            284           206       855
Staff:
Agricultural credit specialist        1      522    1        523    -      -       1,045
Loan officers                        14      540   24        900   33   1,260    2,700
Clerical staff                       14      300   24        500   33      700    1,500
Sub-total                             1,362          1,923         1,960    5,245
Operating Costs:
Vehicles                                      49             134           191       374
Computer                                     304             652         1,044    2,000
Other                                        144             128           152       424
Sub-total                               497            914         1,387    2,798
Total                                         2,224           3,121         3,553    8,898
February 16, 1977.



ANNEX 9
Table 8
KENYA
THRID AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs - MOA Technical Assistance
(K Sh '000)
--------------Project Year----------
1              2              3
No.    Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    Total
Capital Investment:
Vehicles                         20        752    -      -        -     -         752
Staff:
Project coordinator staff                   42             42             42      126
Agricultural officers            12        350            350            350   1,050
Technical officers                8        184            184            184      552
Mechanization officers            4         92             92             92      276
Technical assistants             20        209            209            209      627
Secretarial staff                 3         25             25             25       75
Sub-total                            902             902            902   2,706
Operating Costs:
Vehicles                                   129            274            281      684
Travel                                      33             33             33       99
Allowances                                  26             26             26       78
Sub-total                            188             333            340     861
Training Costs:
Extension staff                             68             68             68      204
Farmers                                    549            550            550   1,649
Sub-total                            617            618             618   1,853
Total Costs                                 2,459          1,853          1,860   6,172
February 16, 1977.



AflIlEX ?
Table 9
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs - Technical Assistance - Evaluation Unit
(K Sh '000)
--------------Project Year--------------
1              2              3
No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost        Total
Capital Investments:
Vehicles                          6     226      -     -        -      -          226
Motor cycles                      6      22      6        22    -      -           44
Office Equipment                         10            -              -           10
Sub-total                        258               22           -          280
Staff: 1/
Senior statistical officer       6      113      6      226    6        226      565
Investigators                    9       65    18       260   18        260      585
Drivers                          3       12      6       48    6         48      108
Clerical staff                   1        4      2       16    2         16        36
Consultants                      -       -       1       40    1         40        80
Sub-total                        194              590            590    1,374
Operating Costs:
Vehicles                                 24             110             110      244
Administration                           20              20              20       60
Computer time                            -               20              20       40
Sub-total                         44              150            150       344
Total Cost                                 496              762            740    1,998
1/ Staff salaries in the first year would be for part of the year only.
February 16, 1977.



ANNEX 10
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Quarterly
Disbursement         Cumulative
1976/77        September
December
March 1/
June 2/                        2,000                 2,000
1977/78        September                       1,600                3,600
December                       1,600                 5,200
March                          1,700                 6,900
June                           1,700                 8,600
1978/79        September                       2,000               10,600
December                       2,000                12,600
March                          2,400                15,000
June                           2,400                17,400
1979/80        September                       2,200               19,600
December                       2,200                21,800
March                          1,700                23,500
June 3/                        1,500                25,000
1/ Estimated date of signing.
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness
3/ Estimated closing date
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Mlarkets and Prices
General Government Policy
1.        Prices of most agricultural commodities are fixed by the Government
which enforces price levels through direct and sometimes exclusive purchase
of produce from farmers by marketing boards. The wholesale and retail prices
are monitored by the Price Controller. The enforcement of official prices
has met with varying degrees of success. The scheduled commodities subject
to price control include maize, wheat, beef, milk, sugar, cotton and rice.
In contrast, prices of the main export crops (coffee, tea, sisal and pyrethrum)
are largely determined by world market conditions. Ex-farm prices for sched-
uled commodities (see Table 1) are formally announced well ahead of planting
time by the Ministry of Agriculture, while wholesale and retail prices are set
by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Both ministries and the various
marketing boards participate in the decision making process. Prices become
effective upon publication in the Official Gazette.
2.        The Government also controls prices of milk, and recent increases
have led to a rapid expansion in the number of producing dairy units. Farmers
consider milk as a good source of cash income without the long delays associated
with returns from crop production. The price of milk relative to that of other
agricultural products is attractive; however, Government has to some extent
in corrected the price differentials between milk and other commodities by
raising most food crop prices.
3.        The Government realizes that farmers react spontaneously to the
prices offered for their products, and hence relative prices between com-
modities play a major role in farmers' choice of crops. The farmers'
responses have now become the most concrete indicators of the approximate
adequacy or inadequacy of ex-farm prices. Although farm budgets are offi-
cially the basis for price decisions, several other factors make it diffi-
cult to adopt a set of prices which would avoid a mis-allocation of resources,
losses to the Kenyan economy, income inequities and unwanted surpluses or
shortages. In addition, the great variations in Kenya's ecological and
climatic conditions and available production techniques for different crops
also affect Government policy in agricultural pricing.
4.        Since the 1960's Government's policy with regard to maize and wheat
has been to gradually adjust domestic prices so as to achieve export parity
levels. This has so far been successful in the case of hybrid maize; however
technological difficulties were encountered in wheat production which,
together with lower producer prices, slightly affected wheat output.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Structure of Marketed Production
5.        The structure of crop production indicates a correlation between
the size of farms and the type of crops produced. Table 2 shows the growth
of the gross marketed output of small and large-scale farmers between 1970
and 1975, and their respective contributions to gross output. The small-
scale farms doubled their output over this period. In terms of farm prac-
tices, most smallholders practice mixed farming while the majority of large-
scale farm holdings grow a single cash crop such as wheat (although wheat
farming is not exclusively a large-scale operation). With the introduction
of grade cows, dairy farming is becoming increasingly popular among small
farmers. Maize, being the staple food, is grown extensively; on the other
hand, cultivation of certain cash crops such as potatoes, poultry and pigs is
inhibited by long distances from market centers as well as lack of transpor-
tation. Some medium-scale farmers successfully combine market gardening
(flowers and vegetables) with dairying and production of other food crops.
Maize
6.        Maize is the staple food crop of Kenya, and an estimated 1.2 million
ha of all varieties are grown annually. Of this area some 96% is planted
by smailholders, who are estimated to have produced 90% of the total crop
over the last decade. Government policy is to encourage maize production in
an effort to satisfy the country's requirements, to build a strategic reserve,
and to allow a modest surplus for export. For 1978 a target of 540,000 tons
has been set for purchases by the Maize and Produce Board (MPB), and this, if
achieved, will in fact permit significant maize exports. Due to the high
proportion of maize produced by smallholders whose marketable surplus is
affected by unfavorable climatic factors and by agricultural pricing policy,
the amount of maize purchased by the MPB shows considerable seasonal variations
(Table 3); this makes the computation of an adequate national reserve diffi-
cult. At present Government policy aims at maintaining a strategic reserve
of some 90,000 tons in addition to ordinary commercial stocks.
7.        The Maize and Produce Board is a statutory board created by the
"Marketing and Agricultural Produce Act" and the "Maize Produce Act."
During 1973/74 it marketed over 38 varieties of produce, including maize,
several types of beans, oilseeds, millet and a few other minor crops. It
is vested with "monopoly" powers for marketing these commodities in the
sense that all movements exceeding 2 bags of maize across district bound-
aries or exceeding 10 bags within district boundaries must be marketed
through an agent of MPB. Even then, on average it handles less than 15%
of the total maize crop.
8.        As of June 1975, MPB had 38 depots for storing grain at various
locations in Kenya and made use of about 3,800 agents for buying and selling
the grain. Nevertheless, a farmer is allowed to deliver his crop directly
to MPB if he so desires. The margin allowed for the traders is fixed by
MPB. Allowance for transportation cost of the grain is included in the



ANNEX 11
Page 3
margins. The price paid by MPB to the trader does not vary with seasons
or from one geographical area to another. MPB depots accept maize only if
the moisture content is less than 13%. The actual maize purchases by the
MPB are shown in Tables 2 and 3, and show an increase of from 353,000 tons
in 1967/68 to 494,000 tons in 1974/75, equivalent to 20% and 27% respec-
tively of the estimated national crop. Total volume of purchases, exports
and imports respectively and a range of prices for the crop over the period
from 1966 to 1975 are shown in Table 4.
9.        The maize prices have shown a steady increase over the last few years.
Maize prices per 90 kg bag have increased from K Sh 25 in 1969 to K Sh 65
per bag in 1975, an overall increase of 160% over the 1969 price. Table 5
shows the working of the price system. Farm gate prices differ between
provinces due to variations in transportation costs to MPB stores and other
costs. However, on the average the farm gate price is about 76% of the
into-store price of MPB at the railhead. Unofficial prices, especially in
isolated areas, can differ significantly from MPB prices. As a result of
official price increases and an improved supply position, the difference
between MPB and local maize prices could be minimized; this would strengthen
the MPB monopoly marketing position, to the benefit of the small producer.
10.       Estimates of production and consumption, and MPB purchases for the
periods 1974/75 to 1979/80 are given in Table 6. These indicate that, in
the absence of major production schemes, there will be a small deficit until
1977/78 followed by a surplus in 1979/80 of 140,000 tons. However, as a
large percentage of the national maize production is retained by the farmer,
estimates of consumption and production necessarily involve some assumptions.
The first phase of the Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP)
would add an estimated 940,000 ha of maize to the present acreage; this pro-
duction has not been included in the production figures given above. Addi-
tional projects would increase the surplus which would be available for
export.
11.       On the demand side, the projection is related to the Central Bureau
of Statistics (CBS) estimates of population growth, and allows for the aver-
age per capita consumption rising from 120 kg (present estimate) to 160 kg
by 1980. This represents an increase in daily dietary intake of 180 Kcals.
Livestock consumption estimates are maintained at a total of 100,000 tons of
maize per annum, although in years of scarcity farmers are likely to cut
down the use of maize as an animal feed.
Beans and Pulses
12.       Beans are an important source of protein for people in the lower
income group whose diet is usually deficient in animal protein. Due to
the very high population growth in Kenya the importance of vegetable pro-
tein is likely to increase in the future and beans are now receiving greater
attention from research workers, agriculturalists and planners. It is,
therefore, Government policy to double production in the next few years,



ANNEX 11
Page 4
both because of crop's attraction from the nutrition standpoint and because
of the export potential. Table 7 shows the purchases by the MPB by province.
It indicates a substantial increase in beans sold from 43,000 bags in 1970/71
to 122,000 bags in 1972/73 but with a reduction in 1973/74 to 64,000 bags.
13.       The introduction of the Mexican 142 variety to Kenya in the mid-
60's has proved successful. This variety is mainly grown in Eastern Prov-
ince, and bought by the MPB for export. Out of 122,000 bags of all bean
varieties bought by the MPB in 1972/73, Mexican 142 numbered 66,700 bags
or 55%. In 1973 the MPB constructed a Bean Processing Plant in Nairobi,
designed to clean, grade and size a variety of beans, but which was primarily
designed to handle the Mexican 142 variety for canning. A recent drastic drop
in world prices has however adversely affected production, and future price
trends are difficult to forecast. The price of local improved strains has
recently increased in order to shift production emphasis to these varie-
ties. Exports of pulses are shown in Table 8.
14.       The lack of stocks of approved seeds and marketing outlets have
been problems in certain locations. However, these aspects have improved
within the last two years and will be further improved under the IADP. The
Kenya Seed Company (KSC) and the MPB now liaise to ensure that adequate
supplies are available to stockists at the right time. For these improved
bean varieties not grown by the KSC, there is a danger of insufficient supply
of approved seed as the MPB handles only a small fraction of the total crop
and often has only limited stocks available for seed. The problem of short-
ages is accentuated by restrictions on crop movements within the country,
which inter alia create local shortages, and drive up the prices to more
attractive levels than those offered by MPB.
15.       Although complete accurate figures are not available, data indi-
cates that the demand for beans in the last three years has exceeded pro-
duction. The difficulty in estimations arises due to unofficial sales,
particularly when bean supplies are insufficient for home consumption and
other pulses are used as a substitute.
16.       Since beans are a scheduled crop whose movement between districts
requires a license, there are considerable variations between producing and
non-producing localities throughout the year. The table below lists typical
farm gate prices currently being paid by the MPB per 90 kg bag.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
MPB Gazetted Prices 1974
K Sh/bag
Canadian Wonder                                       150
Black Food                                            100
Mixed                                                 100
Mwezi Moja                                            150
Mexican 142                                            85
Rosecoco                                              150
Tender Green                                          100
Red Haricot                                           150
17.       Unlike maize the MPB has no monopoly over bean purchases, and
prices of beans in local markets have ranged from K Sh 150 to K Sh 200 per
90 kg bag. The following table compares bean prices during the five years
1969/70 to 1973/74 and shows that the MPB prices were completely out of
line with local prices, particularly during 1972/73 and 1973/74. The new
prices have rectified this situation. The prices paid for the Mexican 142
variety are dictated by the World Market, and have fluctuated considerably
in recent years. As these changes affect production, price stabilization
methods through, among other things, the use of buffer stocks have been
investigated by MPB, but this has been found to be impracticable because of
the relatively small amounts involved.
MPB Prices of Beans and Local
Market Prices 1969/70 - 1973/74
K Sh/90 kg bag
MPB purchases
Year       of food beans            MPB Prices            Local Market Prices
(bags)               (K Sh/bag)                  (K Sh/bag)
Low             High
1969/70          23,300                63.0                90              180
1970/71          22,983                76.5                90              180
1971/72         102,863                78.3                60              180
1972/73          55,385                56.7                55              230
1973/74          19,475                80.1               120              210
Source: Dry Bean Report - July 1974.
18.       Pulses are increasingly important as an export crop (see Table 8).
There was a drop in the total export values between 1969 and 1971 but exports
picked up again from 1972.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Cotton
19.       Cotton marketing is the responsibility of the Cotton Seed and Lint
Marketing Board (CSLMB), and its production is related to capacities of the
ginneries to absorb production. Local textile mills, with an estimated
processing capcity of 60,000 bales of lint per year, have been operating at a
little over 10% capacity for the past five years (see Table 9). Throughput of
lint from local ginneries have shown a considerable variation but have averaged
6,676 bales (1969-1973), as compared to an average national lint production
over the same period of 29,933 bales. Thus only around 22% of locally
produced cotton lint was processed in Kenya, and the remainder was exported.
Over the last years, the value of exports averaged K Sh 24.1 million per year.
As a result, Kenya imports of cotton lint (1970-74) averaged 845 bales/year
large quantities of cotton piece goods (valued at about K Sh 19.0 million
per year), as well as synthetic fabrics (valued at about K Sh 104.3 million
per year) were also imported.
20.       The price of cotton lint is related to the type and quality of
the cotton strand. The table below shows the prices for different grades
of cotton.
Gross Income Received by CSLMB per Kilo of Seed Cotton
(K Sh)
Unit price per kg       Income per kg
Seed Cotton          Seed Cotton
AR Lint (27% of total)                   8.50                  2.22
BR Lint (5% of total)                    5.00                  0.25
AR Seed (56% of total)                   0.60                  0.38
BR Seed (10% of total)                   0.30                  0.30
Waste (2% of total)
2.88
The price paid to the grower for seed cotton has increased steadily over the
last years from K Sh 1.05 per kg in 1967, to K Sh 2.00 in 1974 and K Sh 2.50
for 1976. All prices are effective in June of the year in question and are
for the AR (first) grade. The BR (lower) grade price is approximately 50% of
that for the AR grade. Over the last five years, exports of cotton have
declined steadily (see Table 10) while imports in value terms have increased.
This may be explained by the increased capacity of domestic mills coupled by a
growing national demand for cotton textiles.
Potatoes
21.       Since Irish potatoes are not a major staple food, the demand is
affected by the availability of other staple food substitutes. For instance,
the annual per capita consumption of potatoes in 1973 was estimated as 13.6



ANNEX 11
Page 7
kg 1/ per capita as compared to 120 kg per capita for maize. Consumption
is greater in urban areas and there is also potential for exports which is
under-exploited. As shown in the Table below, it is estimated that per
capita consumption will rise from about 22.7 kg in 1974/75 to 28.87 kg in
1977/78, equivalent to a doubling since 1973.
Projected Increase in Irish Potato Consumption
Total          Total         Domestic          Annual per capita
Year          Population    Production    Consumption /1           Consumption
(000)          (Tons)         (Tons)                  (kg)
1974/75          13,413         320,000          304,000               22.70
1975/76          13,842         350,000          332,500               24.02
1976/77          14,314         390,000          370,500               25.88
1977/78          14,806         450,000          427,500               28.87
/1   An export average of 5% of total production is assumed.
22.       A limited quantity of potatoes are exported; except for 1975 this
has never exceeded 2,000 tons, and for the last five years has averaged 700
tons. Urban areas and rural markets near the Irish potato growing areas
are the major markets for potatoes. The potatoes reach the consumer mainly
by direct sale from the producer, but also through wholesalers and retailers.
This system does not guarantee the small farmer a profitable market when his
crop is harvested. Cooperative marketing systems similar to the one started
in the Kinangop area should be encouraged.
23.       The potato market is characterized by considerable seasonal price
and supply fluctuations. For instance, in the rural markets the price was
as high as K Sh 110 per 90 kg bag in 1975 but dropped later in same year
to K Sh 25 per bag. 2/ This is partly due to lack of coordinated marketing
and storage which compels farmers to sell their crops immediately on har-
vesting, thus causing fluctuations in price and supplies. The Certified Seeds
Cold Storage Room at Tigoni Research Station can store only 40 tons, com-
pared with the 86,400 tons of certified seed which ideally are required
for national planting of 40,000 ha. 3/ It is hoped that the potatoes would
be covered by the overall crop storage and marketing and would be improved
through IADP and the seed project, especially in production and handling
facilities in the major growing areas.
1/   From the Potato Development Report to the Kenya Government, Rome 1973.
2/   According to field data collected by the Economic Planning Division,
Ministry of Agriculture.
3/   It is assumed that each ha is planted with 2.16 tons of potato seeds.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
Groundnuts
24.       There has been an increasing demand for edible oils and fats over
the last few years in Kenya; this has been due to high population growth rates
combined with a rising standard of living and a rapid influx of people into
urban areas. Increasing demand has not, however, been followed by a significant
rise in local production and has mainly been met through increased imports
(see Table 11).
25.       The prices of edible oils increased by more than 30% between 1972
and 1973, with an even sharper rise between 1973 and 1974 (see Table 12).
Although this trend of high prices is continuing, so is the demand for
edible oil. It is, therefore, Government policy to expand local produc-
tion of oilseeds to help preserve foreign exchange funds. The following
table shows the amount purchased and prices paid for groundnuts for the
period 1971/72 to 1974/75. The low purchases in 1974/75 were due to an
unrealistic pricing policy of MPB, which resulted in a diversion to other
buyers of the major portion of the crop.
Groundnut Prices and Purchases by MPB for 1971-75
(K Sh per bag of 80 kg)
1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75
Uganda type                     108        110       164.5      196.5
South Nyanza variety             88         90        65.5      100.0
Total purchase (bags)        12,900      24,000   7,700       1,300
Oilseeds
26.       The de-velopment of processing plants in Kenya for edible oils has
increased the demand for oilseeds. As a result, some oilseeds have been
imported from neighboring countries. Estimates by the Crop Production Divi-
sion of the Ministry of Agriculture show that about 10,000 tons of oilseeds
were being produced in Kenya in 1973 and, in addition, imports of edible oils
amounted to 20-25,000 tons per annum. The bulk of the purchase of oilseeds
has historically been done by the Maize and Produce Board and the Kenya Far-
mers Association (KFA). However, in recent years the factories have been
buying directly from the farmers.
27.       Kenya's oilseed processing industry has traditionally been confined
to cotton seeds and copra. With the construction of the factories in Nakuru,
processing has extended to include sunflower and maize germ. Additional
capacity developed since 1972 totals approximately 20,000 tons of oilseed
and is expandable to 30,000 tons p.a. depending on the availability of raw
materials and the demand. The latest plant is designed to manufacture both
maize germ, rapeseed and sunflower seed.



ANNEX 1.1
Page 9
28.       Table 13 lists the prices paid for the various oilseeds by the
MPB since 1971/72. The average price increased by 70% between 1971/72 and
1974/75. Buying prices for sunflower seeds in Kenya have more than doubled,
as have prices for castor and groundnuts. These price trends have encouraged
farmers to increase production of oil crops during the last two years, a trend
which is now being accelerated by the Integrated Agricultural Development
Project. With regard to rapeseed production in particular, they envisage:
(a) provision of assured markets for farmers at planting time at pre-season
agreed prices - purchases would be made either directly by processors or
through the MPB, the cooperatives or the KFA; and (b) regular review of
producer prices to keep these in line with the world prices, and import tariff
adjustment to prevent over-supplies.
29.       Consumer prices of edible oils increased by more than 30% between
1972 and 1973, with a sharper rise between 1973 and 1974. Although this trend
of high prices is expected to continue, the demand for edible oil remains high
and will be met from imports.
Pyrethrum
30.       With the increase in world demand, the Pyrethrum Marketing Board
and the MOA have taken active steps to increase production and processing
capacity. This campaign has met with considerable success as shown in Table
14, yielding an increase in pyrethrum exports. As a result of increased
demand, Kenya's processing capacity was increased and extra machinery was
installed at Nakuru. As part of the campaign to encourage production, the
price paid to the grower was increased for the 1974/75 season. The price
paid varies with the pyrethrum content of the flower; for flowers with a
pyrethrum content of over 1.3%, the price was raised from K Sh 5.25 to K Sh
5.69 per kg, while for flowers with over 1.5% pyrethrum the increase was from
K Sh 6.06 to 6.45 per kg. The majority of smallholder sales are conducted
through the cooperatives who deduct a commission for their services.
31.       Kenya accounts for nearly 70% of total world pyrethrum production.
Since 1970, when the U.S. and several European countries put restrictions on the
use of a number of synthetic pesticides, demand ho deduct a commission for their services
31.       Kenya accounts for nearly 70% of total world pyrethrum production.
Since 1970, when the U.S. and several European countries put restrictions on the
use of a number of synthetic pesticides, demand for natural based pyrethrum
products has increased; consequently prices hardened and remain firm. The
future world demand for pyrethrum depends on the outcome of research put
into synthetic substitutes. However, any such research is essentially long-
term and Kenya has firm market contacts in some 50 countries and is continuing
to improve the quality and efficiency of its product. Government policy as
laid down in the 1974-78 Development Plan is to increase production, and a
target production level for 1978 has been set at 21,000 tons of dried flowers.



ANNEX 11
Page  10
Bananas
32.       Bananas are produced mainly for home consumption along field
boundaries or on small plots which are not suitable for other crops. In the
past the bulk of banana production in Kenya was consumed on the farm, but
lately more of the local product has been marketed due to reduced supply from
Uganda. Not being a major diet staple, the scope for expansion of banana
production is limited even with intensive methods of cultivation. The
Nairobi market is the most important for banana sales, and about 74% of all
banana trade in 1972 went through the Wakulima market in Nairobi (approxi-
mately 11,300 tons in 1972). The total volume of bananas sold in Kenya amounted
to 17,590 tons in 1975. Approximately 59% of this amount came from Central
Province and 33% from Kissi District.
33.       The prices paid to the producer differ greatly according to the
distance to the Nairobi market; these vary from K Sh 5 to K Sh 8 per bunch.
At a yield of 1,000 bunches per ha, the average gross output could be valued
at K Sh 7,000 per ha, giving a gross margin of approximately K Sh 2,800 per ha
per year. This would tend to make the venture profitable provided transporta-
t-ion was guaranteed.
Wheat
34.       Wheat production in Kenya is directly affected by world market con-
ditions. Producer prices declined in 1969, reflecting world market develop-
ments, and remained relatively low until 1973. As a result of lower prices,
coupled with changes in farm ownership and increased production of hybrid
maize, the overall acreage under wheat declined to 104,000 ha in 1974; some
116,000 ha are estimated to be under wheat in 1975. Table 15 shows the
overall production and consumption situation of wheat between 1968 and
1975.
35.       During the last twenty years, due to population growth and improved
living standards, demand for wheat production in Kenya has increased steadily,
making wheat the second most important cereal after maize. Bread is sold in
the urban as well as populated rural areas and the overall demand has increased
steadily over the past few years. The resulting supply deficit has been met
by imports, with a total foreign exchange cost of K Sh 10.5 million between
1972 and 1975. The lower volume of wheat imports of (13,590 tons) in 1974
reflected the utilization of carry-over stocks between 1972 and 1973.
Moreover, in 1974 Government imposed wheat rationing to the mills and thereby
controlled foreign purchases. The steady increase in farmgate prices of
naked wheat between 1970 and 1975 are shown in Table 16, while the prices of
bread loaf in Nairobi and Nakuru are shown in Table 17.
36.       By its nature, wheat will continue to be grown predominantly on
large farms. Projections indicate that deficits will increase to 100,000
tons in 1985 (Table 18). Therefore, in order to move towards self-
sufficiency, the Government [ntends to encourage production in the following
ways:



ANNEX 11
Page 11
(a) provide incentives to farmers through the pricing system;
(b) improve the credit system to enable farmers to obtain sea-
sonal credit as an alternative to the present Guaranteed
Minimum Return (GMR) System;
(c) expand the wheat research program;
(d) encourage construction of new storage facilities and
improvement of existing stores including expanding of
bulk handling systems; and
(e) assist in the provision of infrastructure facilities such
as all-weather access roads.
October 8, 1976



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJTECT             1/
Average Gross Commodity Prices to Farmers, 1970-1975
(Ksh/unit)
Product                  Unit         1970          1971           1972          1973           1974          1975
Coffee                      100 Kg       747            636           779            921            1008          1000
Tea                         100 Kg       674            650           601            593             721           808
Sisal                       100 Kg        78             68            90            243             424           323
Pyrethrum (extract equiv.)    Kg         310            357           396            415             430           430
Seed Cotton                 100 Kg        99            105           115            122             155           192
Maize                       100 Kg         28            33            39             39               46           70
Sugar Cane                      Ton       45             45            50             52              62            89
Rice Paddy                  100 Kg        51             48            51             50               59          105
Wheat                       100 Kg         45            51            51             57               80          105
Beef (third grade)          100 Kg       273            285           302            346             413           474
Bacon Pigs                  100 Kg       355            370           418            426             567           636
Milk                        100 Kg         53            69            77             77               77           85
Footnotes
i1'  Tesc prives a-;. for ca'_,.d-r ,^yr :^14t'zri2    -4A refl9ot actual p?vnnt   n al thonlrq  average
prices tor two crop seasons whicn overlap durinig Lije caleLdar year nuigiiL iave difforcd.
SOURCE: Economic Survey 1976 (Table 8.2)
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Gross Marketed Production from Large and Small Farms, 1970-75
Large Farms                 Small Farms                    Total              % Share of Small Farms
KL million Ann. % change  KL million Ann. % change  KL million Ann. % change             %
1970           41.2             8.7          44.2          15.4          85.4          12.1             51.8
1971           42.1             2.1          44.6           0.9          86.7           1.5             51.5
1972           50.3            19.4          55.6          24.8         105.9          22.2             52.5
1973          60.0             19.2          63.3          13.8         123.3          16.4             51.4
1974           73.4            22.3          75.0          18.5         148.4          20.4             50.6
1975           70.8            -3.5          87.5          16.7         158.3           6.7             55.3
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Maize Purchased by Maize and Product Board
1970/71 - 1974/75
Province              1970/71        1971/72         1972/73         1973/74          1974/75         1975/76*
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - -'000 bags l/- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Western                 835           1458            1113             1439            1635            2037
Nyanza                   65            172             401              152             371             674
Sub-tutal
Yestern Sector          90v           1630             1514            151            2006             2711
Central                   5            132             234                3             308              48
Eastern                  13            177             390               66              33                6
Sub-total
Eastern Sector           18            309             624               69             341              54
Rift Valley            1748           2271            2943             2066            2653            3235
Coast                    -              -
Sub-total              1748           2271            2943               2066            2653          3235
Grand Total:
(000 bags)             2666           4210            5082            3726             5000            6500
(000 tons)              240            379             457             335              450             585
SOURCE:  Maize and Produce Board, Annual Reports.
1/   One bag of maize = 90 kgs
*    Estimates
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 4
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Maize Purchase Exports, Imports and Prices from 1966 to 1975
-------------------------------000's Tons---------------------------------
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
Purchases    134       249     353      280      206      257     373      441      365     494
Exports        -        81     277      141       -        -       19      218       60       -
Imports       143       -       -        -        14       29      -        -         1      -
Producer
Price 1/       40       35      31       28       28       33      39       39       46       70
Consumer
Price 2/       -        66      66       55       55       55      59       60       75       -
Export
Price 3/       -     17.6    17.2        -        -        -     25.2    28.0    37.0
Import
Price 3/    25.7        -       -        -      27.0    30.8       -        -        -
SOURCE: Statistical Abstract 1975
1/ Kenya Shillings per 100 kgs.
2/ Maize grain Kenya Shillings per 100 kgs.
3/ KU per metric ton.
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Maize Prices Effective From 23rd January 1975
Province   District       Basic       Trader's    Insect-       New      Price     Trans-      County       Grade      Cost
Price      Commi-        incide       Gunny   to         port        Council    Diffe-    Delivered
90 kg      ssion                      Bag     traders   Pool         Cess        rential   for Grade
(without                                      for faq                                       1 maize 90 g
bag)                                          90 kg net                                      net free by rail3/
Nyanza     All
Districts    57/85        2/-          -/20         5/40    65/45      4/80           -         -/35         70/60
Western    Bungoma        59/-        2/-          -/20         5/40    66/60       2/65        1/-         -/35         70/50
All other
Districts    60;,--       2/-          -/20         5/40    67/60       2/65          -         -/35         70/60
Rift       Kericho &
Valley      Narok         57/50       2/-          -/20         5/40    65/10       5/15          -         -/35         70/60
Loitokitok   56/85        2/-          -/20         5/40    64/45      5/80           -         -/35         70/60
All other
Districts    58/15        2/-          -/20         5/40    65/75       4/50          -         -/35         70/60
Eastern    Meru 1/        57/50       2/-          -/20         5/40    65/10       5/15          -         -/35         70/60
Embu          59/30       2/-          -/20         5/40    66/90       3/35          -         -/35         70/60
Machakos      57/85       2/-          -/20         5/40    65/45       4/80          -         -/35         70/60
Kitui 2/      56/85       2/-          -/20         5/40    64/45       5/80          -         -/35         70/60
Central    All dist.    60/50         2/-          -/20         5/40    68/10       2/15          -         -/35         70/60
Coast      All dist.    56/85         2/-          -/20         5/40    64/45       5/80          -         -/35         70/60
1/  The amount of Shs 5/15 includes subsequent transport from Meru to Nanyuki.
2/  The amount of Shs 5/80 includes subsequent transport from Kitui Township to Thika or Kibwezi. The pool has been
reduced on the understanding that the bulk of maize purchased will be consumed locally.
3/  Summary: 65/- gazetted price + Gunny bag + insecticide.                                                                          z ;
N.B.  In addition to the price to traders, transport from markets to stores or railheads to be paid at the rate
of -/90 cents per mile per 90 kg net for ungraded F. A. Q. maize.                                                             a x
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 6
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Reconciliation of Maize Production and Consumption Estimates
(1c75-80)
( '000 tons)
Crop Year                 1975/76        1976/77        1977/78        1978/79         1979/80
Total Production
2603           2758           3069           3269            3475
Less 20% Wastage            520            552             614            654            695
NET SUPPLY                 2083           2206           2455            2615           2780
National Population
('000)                   13842           14314          14806          15313          15877
Human Consumption          2215           2290           2369            2450           2540
Livestock Consumption       100            100            100             100            100
NET DEA-AND                2315           2390           2469            2550           2640
iET DEFICIT/SURPLUS        (232)          (184)            (14)            65            140
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 7
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Maize and Produce Board: Bean Purchases
(1970/71 - 1973/74)
(90 kg bags)
Provinces                  1970/71            1971/72            1973/74           1973/74
Eastern                    24,868             119,025            75,870            40,680
Central                     8,513              12,058            13,618             3,106
Coast                           4                    0                0                 0
Western                     4,960               5,183             9,231             4,635
Nyanza                      1,481              15,721            15,044            12,173
Rift Valley                 3,769               2,215             8,322             3,016
Total 1/
(Bags)                    43,595              154,202          122,085             63,610
Tons                        3,924              13,878           10,988              5,724
Total 2/
(Bags)                    20,821               51,339           66,700            44,135
Tons                       1873                4620             6003               3972
SOURCE: MPB Annual Reports
1/ Local Beans - total
2/ Mexican 142 Beans - total
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 8
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Exports of Pulses from Kenya: 1968 - 1974 1/
Value as                   Amount                 Value
% of total  1/               Tonnes                K1 '000
1968               1.4                     17,711                   834
1969               0.8                     10,849                   529
1970               0.7                      9,583                   512
1971               0.6                      8,059                   456
1972               1.2                     21,268                 1,103
1973               1.0                     16,283                 1,173
1974               0.9                     10,408                 1,545
1/ SOURCE: Statistical Abstract 1975.
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Performance of Cotton Ginneries
(Bales of 400 lb (181.44 kg Net)
Design    --------- Annual Production 1/----------           5 Year    % of        Throughout         Seed 2/
Capacity  1970      1971      1972     1973      1974        Average   capa-       for 50% of         Cotton
city      capacity            Equivalent
m. ton
Samia       8000      1963      3909     3791      3319      4079        3412.2      42.6        4000               2267.6
Nambare     6000      3771      5217      4645     3742      3915        4258.0      71.0        3000               1700.7
Malakisi    5000      2940      4356      4270     3328      4161        3811.0      76.2        2500               1427.2
Ndere       5000      1035      2155     1469      2090       657        1481.2      29.6        2500               1417.2
Homa Bay    5000      1290      1614      1079     Silent   Silent)
)    1578.9      15.8        5000               2834.5
Kendu Bay   5000      2445      2811      1891     2358      2301  )
Kibos       3500      Silent   Silent   1341       1372      Silent       542.5      15.5        1750                992.1
Kitui       8000      8780      1616       638     1163      1316        2702.6      33.8        4000               2267.6
Mwoa       10000      2182      3428      2447     4482      6009        3709.6      37.1        5000               2834.5
Lamu        3000      1999      2510      3960     3978      3978        3193.6    106.4         1500                850.3
Malindi      9250     1347      2570      3922     4396      1830        2813.0      30.4        4625               2621.9
Total      67750    27752    30186    29014    30210    28246           27502.7      40.5       33875              19203.7
SOURCE: CSLMB Communication of July 23, 1975, and IADP Appraisal Report.
1/ Total Kenya production over the last five years averaged 27,500 bales.
2/ Taking a 32% ginning percentage which for 566.9 kgs of seed cotton give 181.4 lint,
374.1 seed and 11.4 invisible loss (2%).
a    1
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 10
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Exports and Imports of Cotton
1970       1971        1972        1973        1974       5 Year
Average
A. Exports
1. Quantity:
Tons                   5,082       4,606      4,266       4,780       3,318         4,410
Bales                 27,468      24,895     23,058      25,836      17,903        23,832
2. Value:
K Shs million           24.5        21.5        24.3       27.5        22.6          24.1
B. Imports
1.  Raw Cotton Bales         335         928       1,969      1,173         983           845
Value ---------------------------Not Available---------------------------
2. Cotton piece goods
Value K Shs million    20.4         23.5        15.4       12.4        25.4            19
SOURCE: Economic Survey 1971-1975.
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Production, Consumption, Imports and Exports for Major Kenya Oil Seeds 1968-1971 (t)
SUNFLOWER                    GROUNDNUTS                 CASTOR SEEDS               SESAME SEEDS
1968   1969   1970   1971       1968  1969   1970   1971   1968  1969  1970  1971   1968   1969   1970   1971
Production     1397   2574   3156   2542        2426  2226   2129   2599   3027  3984  3197  1978   1301    886    705    376
Imports          39   2085       8   1012        537   117       3      -       -   109    70   103    604    109    173    189
Exports        1346   2024   3164   2233        2963   184   1815   1731   2971  3956  2569  1481   1483    688    787    565
Consumption 1/   90   2635        -   1321         -  2219    217    868       56     8   698   590 |  422    317        91       -
_     _  ~~I_           _      _              ___                          ___I__
SOURCE:  Report on Development of Oilseed and Vegetable Oil Production 1971,
By Dr. A. J. Garzon-Trula.
Notes:  1/  Local sales-excluding any subsistence consumption (catered for in Table 4/3.)
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 12
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Net Imports of Edible Oils and Fats 1969-74
1969      1970         1971        1972        1973          1974
Quantity
(Metric tons value)       29373       19237       34921       33715       33508         33136
Value
(000 K Shs)               44020       39120       71140       66534       88630        156240
Average price/ton (KShs)  1498          2033        2037       1973        2645          4716
SOURCE: Annual Trade Reports 1969-1975.
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 13
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseeds Buying Prices:  MPB (Delivered into Store - KSh per bag)
Bag      1971/2            1972/3          1973/4 1/        1974/5
Weight
Castor Seed        65         46/-            46/50            74/50           85/-
Groundnuts
(Ugar.ca type)     80        108/-           110/-           164/50           196/50
South Nyanza
Variety            80         88/-            90/-             65/50          100/-
Simsim             80        115/-           120/50           140/50          189/-
Sunflower:         40
White/Black                   25/-            28/-             42/50           57/-
Grey Striped                  24/-            25/-             30/50           50/-
Mixed                         18/-            18/-             20/50           40/-
SOURCE: MPB Annual Reports
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pyrethrum Exports 1965 - 1974
1965      1966       1967       1968       1969       1970       1971      1972       1973       1974
Flowers
Quantity (t)        867       1360      1569       1802       2030       1488       2307       2849       3083       4094
Value (K L'000)    266         428        488       536        570        414        571        790        741       1113
Extract
Quantity (t)        274        321       327        366        367        265        368        509        356        472
Value (K L'000)   1964        2397      2423       2504       2224       1748       2761       3782       2920       4536
Total Value        2230      2825       2911       3040       2794       2162       3332       4572       3661       5649
(K h'000)
SOURCE:   Economic Survey
FA
r F
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Wheat Production and Consumption:  1968 - 1975
(in tons)
1968      1969        1970       1971        1972        1973        1974        1975
Flour Consumption          74,275    75,855       94,102    117,630    113,500    117,194    128,668    109,360
Wheat Grain Equivalent 1/ 99,030   101,140    125,470    156,840    151,330    156,260    171,500    145,810
Hectarage                 165,000   163,000                                          106,000    104,000    116.000
Gross Yield 2/            222,592   215,542    176,889    170,333    149,601    138,601
Net Production 3/         204,770   198,290    162,090    156,700    137,620    127,630    156,800    162,290*
Surplus (Deficit) 4/      105,740    97,150       36,550        (140)   (13,710)   (28,630)    (14,760)    16,480
Exportation (importa-
tion)                         630    17,460       39,290      14,940   (160,840)   (76,320)    (13,590)   (76,140)
SOURCE: Report of Kenya Wheat Board (September, 1973)
1/ Flour taken as 75% of whole grain
2/ Gross yield includes all wheat harvested whether it is seed or eventually rejected or sold as
undergrade wheat for stockfeed. The year represent the planting year.
3/ The average difference between Gross Yield and Net Production (actual) deliveries to the Wheat Board) is 8%.
4/ The Surplus (Deficit) is calculated as the difference between Net Production and consumption and does not
take into account the stock balance at the beginning of the year nor the fact that a portion of the wheat
is harvested in the year following the planting.
*   Estimates
F
February 16, 1977                                                                                                               -I.



ANNEX 11
Table 16
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Producer Price for Average Grade 2 1/2
Naked Wheat: 1970-1975
Year                      Date                      Per ton                  Per bag
(90 kg)
1970                                                Shs 519              Shs 46.70
1971                                                    519                   46.70
1972                                                    519                   46.90
1973                                                    644                   58.00
1974                      25.1                          889                   80.00
15.8                        1000                   90.00
1975                      23.1                         1111                 100.00
SOURCE: Wheat Board
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 17
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Price for 50Cg White Bread Loaf
in Nairobi and Nakuru: 1970-1975
Year            Date            Price             Shs                 Reason for Price
Per 500 g           Per kg                   Increase
1970                            0.85             1.70
1971                            0.85             1.70
1972                            0.85             1.70
1973            9.6             0.95             1.90                 Introduction of
10% Sales Tax
1974           25.1             1.05             2.10                 Producer price
increase
15.8             1.20             2.40                 Producer price
increase
1975           23.1             1.50             3.00                 Producer price
increase
13.6             1.40             2.80                Removal of Sales
Tax
SOURCE: Bakeries Survey, EPD 1975.
February 16, 1977



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Wheat Production and Consumption Projection
(in tons)
1976              1977             1978              1979            1980             1985
Flour Consumption 1/       115,000             121,000         127,000           133,000          140,000          178,000
Wheat grain equivalent   153,000               161,000         169,000           177,000          186,000          237,000
Hectarage                  109.000             104,000         102,000           100,000           97,000           97,000
Gross Yield 2/             160,000             149,000         149,000           149,000          149,000          149,000
Net Production             147,000             137,000         137,000           137,000          137,000          137,000
Deficit                     (6,000)            (24,000)         (32,000)         (40,000)         (49,000)        (100,000)
SOURCE:   Economic Planning Division, Ministry of Agriculture.
Notes:    1/  Increasing by 5% per annum 1976 - 1985
2/ Rising from 15.5 bags (1,395 kg) per hectare in 1976 to 17.0 bags (1,530 kg) per hectare
in 1980 (85). One bag weighs 90 kg.
Ferr  1
February 16, 1977



ANNEX 12
Page 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return was computed for the whole Project
based on the following assumptions:
(a) For smallholders, it was assumed that approximately 10,000
loans would be made for crop production and about 13,500
would be made for purchase of grade cows. In addition, it
was assumed that 285 loans would be made for tractor units,
200 for poultry and 144 for pig units.
(b) For medium scale commercial farmers, it was assumed that
520 crop loans would be made, of which 390 would be for
wheat farms and 130 for maize farms. In addition 140
loans would be made for purchase of tractors.
(c) Pricing was based on the projected 1980 prices of inter-
nationally traded commodities. Other commodities such as
milk and eggs were priced at the current local price.
(d) For both costs and benefits, the Kenya shilling was shadow
priced at US$1 = K Sh 10 (as compared with the current rate
of US$1 = K Sh 8.3) for all transactions involving foreign
exchange. However, no shadow pricing was used for labor
cost as the market value of labor is considered to reflect
its opportunity cost.
(e) Taxes and duties are minimal and therefore were
ignored.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return over
a 20 year period was estimated at 37% (Table 2). The Project apears to be
somewhat sensitive to a relative drop in prices or yields, as a 10% reduction
in either would reduce the rate of return by 11% to 26%. An increase in
investment costs of 10% would lead to a reduction in the rate of return
to 32%, while a 10% increase in all costs would reduce it to 27%.
3.        Financial rates of return were calculated for the individual
farm models. These are shown in Table 1.
October 14, 1976



ANNEX 12
Table 1
KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
--------------------- Project Year ------ ------------          Rate of
1            2            3            4           5-20      Return
Smallholders:
Model   I Zone A - Incr. Costs                      1,402        7,577        2,694         2,694        2,694
- Incr. Benefits                    -          4,572        5,463        5,963        5,963
Net Incr. Benefits            (1,402)       (3,005)       2,769        3,269        3,269       59%
Model  II Zone B - Incr. Costs                     12,281        2,713        3,918         3,918        3,918
- Incr. Benefits                  3,000        6,370        6,370        8,594        8,594
Net Incr. Benefits            (9,281)       3,657         2,452        4,676        4,676       42%
Model III Zone C - Incr. Costs                      2,703        3,648        3,648         3,123        3,123
- Incr. Benefits                    -          3,721        5,902        5,902        5,902
Net Incr. Benefits             (2,703)          73        2,254        2,779        2,779       64%
Tractor Unit      - Costs                         145,419       66,463       66,463       66,463        66,463
- Benefits                      53,917        80,875       80,875       80,875       80,875
Net Benefits                 (91,502)       14,412       14,412       14,412       14,412       15%
Five Sow Unit    - Costs                           24,786       33,134       33,134       33,134        33,134
- Benefits                         -         37,923        37,923       37,923       37,923
Net Benefits                 (24,786,        4,789        4,789        4,789        4,789       18%
Poultry Unit      - Costs                          11,974       25,611       25,611       25,611       25,611
- Benefits                          -         32,500       34,900       34,900       34,900
Net Benefits                  (11,974        6,889        9,289        9,289        9,289       69%
Medium Scale Farmers:
Model   I         - Incr. Costs                   155,310      108,530      143,879      143,879      143,879
- Incr. Benefits                35,655       135,644      182,870      182,870      182,870
Net Incr. Benefits          (119,655)      27,114       38,991        38,991       38,991      30%
Model  II         - Incr. Costs                   172,250      129,192      173,572      173,572      173,572
- Incr. Benefits                54,130      152,378      217,328      217,328       217,328
Net Incr. Benefits          (118,120)      23,186       43,756       43,756       43,756       32%
October 13, 1976.



KENYA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT rROJECT
Economic Analysis
(K Sh '000)
-----------------------------Costs----------------------------              --------------------------Benefits-----------------------
Farm                                                                        Farm
Year       Crops       Livestock      Machinery    Tech. Assist.        Total          Crops      Livestock        Machinery      Total        Net
1       10,927        39,550         22,463          5,709           78,649            702       11,809             5,122      17,633       (61,016)
2       27,207        50,781         30,786          6,323         115,097          25,216       32,743            14,418      72,377       (42,720)
3       47,893        66,205         38,999          6,783         159,880         57,129        57,911            23,759    138,799        (21,081)
4       59,044-       39,122         24,580          6,783         129,529          93,727        70,975           27,978    192,680         63,151
5       64,122        41,734         24,580          6,783         137,219        106,071         74,757           27,978    208,806         71,587
6       63,948        41,734         24,580          6,783         137,045        112,048         74,757           27,978    214,783         77,738
7-20      63,948        41,734         24,580          6,783         137,045        112,847         74,757           27,978    215,582         78,537
Economic Rate of Return                     377.
Sensitivity test: Investment cost + 107  3a%
All costs + 10%          27%
Yield or price - 107   267
lb Z
mx
February 16, 1977



3RD  3924R
SUD)AN .'                                                                       a  
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD NSCM, wiz3< X
.-                     E5ODgJ f-                                                        -,?r\@g/L
.          b      w+                  *>            <-  g  s   -     _   -    *                             X        
A',
~~~~~~~~~~~ No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'oi
CRnVeX .,f7N- .    .   --. - .-NR.\         M.~a
-, GA*XNDA+l-*\ '-                                                                                  /  
MO~~~, ,,                                                           -,                                  f   .   
\s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~'$0l':T



