CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 692 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Third Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 15, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing
to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in
this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in the Loan Agreement are made;


﻿-2-
(D) the Project will be carried out in part by the
Agricultural Finance Corporation with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Agricultural Finance Corporation a part of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank
and the Agricultural Finance Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation
established by the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969
(No. 1) of the Borrower;
(b) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to


﻿-4-
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and the schedule to the Loan Agreement;
(d) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
project and parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and AFC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the
schedule to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement; and
(f) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the AFC pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to Lime.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as-such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the Bank and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association and the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of loans made by AFC
under Parts A, B and C of the Project and the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for Parts D and E of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the vehicles and equipment for the MOA to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with
the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1987, and
ending March 15, 2027, each installment to and including the
installment payable on March 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement:
(a) the Borrower shall carry out Part E of the Project
through the MOA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose. Without limitation to
the foregoing, the Borrower shall employ additional personnel as
indicated in Schedule 3 to this Agroement except as the
Association may otherwise agree.
(b) The Borrower shall cause AFC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable AFC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance, and shall in particular assist
and enable AFC to meet its obli6ations under Section 3.03 of the
Project Agreement.


﻿-8-
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project available to AFC under
a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and AFC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association including, except as the
Association may otherwise agree, the terms and conditions set out
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that a person with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association
serves as project coordinator in the MOA's Land and Farm
Management Division during the Project implementation period. The
project coordinator shall be appointed by June 1, 1977, or such
later date as the Association may approve, shall be, or shall
report directly to, the Head of such Division, shall be adequately
supported and shall ensure coordination between such Division's
staff who assist farmers in preparing farm budgets and AFC staff
who evaluate such budgets in connection with loans by AFC to
farmers.


﻿-9-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the
Project in accordance with a program satisfactory to the
Association which shall be prepared by June 1, 1977 or such later
date as the Association may approve.
Section 3.04. The operating policies and procedures for
carrying out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project shall be those
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall consult with the Association
with regard to any proposed appointment of a chief executive
officer (howsoever designated) of AFC.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes that adequate
provision shall be made for the insurance of the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and that for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specificiations, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Part E of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrowei: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of Part E of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
Part E of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the areas served by Part E of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) AFC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that AFC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act, 1969 (No.
1) o,7 any other enactment relating to AFC shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of AFC to carry out
the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of AFC or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a


﻿- 12 -
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
AFC has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and AFC, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(c) all conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by AFC, and is legally binding upon AFC in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and AFC, is legally
binding upon the Borrower and AFC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date June 15, 1977 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANCE                           22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By Is/ J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the Credit
and of the Loan Allocated       % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Loans disbursed                                79% of amounts
to smallholders                               disbursed
(Part A of the
Project) for:
(a) Farm ma-              2,500,000
chinery and
equipment
(b) Other pur-           10,300,000
poses
(2) Loans disbursed                                 79% of amounts
to medium-scale                                disbursed
commercial
farmers (Part B
of the Project)
for:
(a) Farm ma-              1,500,000
chinery and
equipment
(b) Other pur-            5,200,000
poses


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the Credit
and of the Loan Allocated      % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) Loans disbursed            1,000,000           79% of amounts
to retail input                              disbursed
suppliers (Part
C of the
Project)
(4) Technical                    600,000          100% of foreign
assistance,                                  expenditures and
salaries,                                    63% of local
vehicles,                                     expenditures
equipment and
operating
expenses for
MOA and the
Borrower's
Central Bu-
reau of Sta-
tistics
(5) Salaries,                    700,000          100% of foreign
vehicles,                                     expenditures and
equipment and                                 63% of local
operating                                    expenditures
expenses for
AFC
(6) Unallocated                3,200,000
TOTAL     25,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" mneans expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower, and the term
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of
the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000, may be made in respect of


﻿- 20 -
Categories (1) and (2) on account of loans disbursed before that
date but after January 1, 1977; and
(b) Category (2) until AFC has, in accordance with Section
2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, appointed a senior credit
specialist.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit
shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be
made from the Loan Account except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have, or
after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit, the
Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficent to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Association and the Bank may, by notice to the B6rrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet
other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully


﻿- 21 -
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and the Bank under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as,
in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Credit for Smallholders
Expansion of AFC's smallholder lending operations
from 22 to 28 districts and provision of credit of the
types listed below through AFC to smallholders in such
districts:
(1) seasonal credit for crop production;
(2) medium-term credit for farm development; and
(3) medium-term credit for oxen, farm machinery and
equipment.
Part B:   Credit for Medium-Scale Commercial Farms
Provision of credit of the types listed below through
AFC for medium-scale commercial wheat and maize farms:
(1) seasonal credit for crop production;
(2) medium-term credit for farm development; and
(3) medium-term credit for farm machinery and
equipment.
Part C:   Credit for Retail Input Suppliers
Provision of medium-term credit to retail suppliers
of agricultural inputs in cases in which such credit


﻿- 23 -
is required in order to enable such suppliers to
maintain adequate stocks of agricultural inputs.
Part D:   Support to AFC
Strengthening AFC's appraisal and loan-adminstration
capacity by:
(1) obtaining the services of a senior credit
specialist for AFC;
(2) increasing AFC's staff by hiring qualified
loan officers and-supporting clerical staff;
and
(3) providing, as required, vehicles and equipment,
and operating expenses for them.
Part E:   Support to MOA
(1) Provision of adequate extension services to farmers
who receive loans out of the proceeds of the Credit
by providing additional staff for MOA's Land and
Farm Management Division.
(2) Establishing a Project Evaluation Unit in MOA's
Development Planning Division to evaluate ongoing
agricultural development projects on a continuous
basis and providing adequate staff, facilities,
vehicles, equipment and funds for this Unit and for
the Borrower's Central Bureau of Statistics for its


﻿- 24 -
evaluation and monitoring activities cuunected with
the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Ministry of Agriculture
Personnel to be Employed
in Addition to Staff Employed
on the Date of this Agreement--
Cumulative
(Section 3.01 (a))
Years, Commencing with the Effective Date
1st            2nd             3rd
Land and Farm
Management Division
(Part E (1) of
the Project):
Agricultural offi-
cers                    12              12             12
Technical officers         8               8              8
Mechanization offi-
cers                     4               4              4
Technical assis-
tants                   20              20             20
Secretarial staff          3               3              3
Project Evaluation
Unit (Part E (2) of
the Project):
Senior statistical
officers                 6               6              6
Investigators              9             18             18
Drivers                    3               6              6
Clerical staff             1               2              2
Consultants                               1               1


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms to be Included in
Subsidiary Financing Agreement
(Section 3.01 (c))
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement shall include the following terms and
conditions:
1.   Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn by the Borrower for Part
D of the Project shall be made available to AFC, promptly upon
their withdrawal, as a grant.
2.   Proceeds of the Credit withdrawn for Parts A, B and C of
the Project shall be provided to AFC, promptly upon their
withdrawal, and AFC shall pay interest thereon at a rate not
exceeding 5% per annum commencing, in respect of each
portion thereof, the date they are received by AFC. The amount so
provided to AFC shall not be required to be repaid.
3.   The proceeds of the Credit made available to AFC as provided
above shall be made available in the currency of the Borrower,
converted at the rate prevailing at the time funds are made
available to AFC.
4.   The Borrower shall, out of funds other than the proceeds
of the Credit, provide to AFC, on each date funds are provided
to AFC pursuant to paragraph 2 above, an amount equal to 27% of
the amount provided pursuant to paragraph 2. Amounts so provided


﻿- 27 -
pursuant to this paragraph shall be provided on the same terms as
amounts provided pursuant to paragraph 2.
5.   (a) If AFC sustains a loss on any loan it makes pursuant
to the Project Agreement owing to the farmer's inability to
pay and (i) directions from the Borrower or (ii) other causes
which are beyond the control of AFC and were not reasonably
foreseeable at the time the loan was made, then: (A) a portion
of the amount provided pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 above equal
to the amount of the loss will be deemed to have been repaid to
the Borrower and interest shall no longer be payable thereon and
(B) the Borrower shall promptly provide to AFC an additional
amount equal to the amount of the loss on the terms and conditions
contained in paragraph 2 above and in this paragraph 5.
(b) A loss shall be deemed to have occurred on a loan
or portion thereof for purposes of this paragraph 5 if (i) AFC
writes off the loan or a portion thereof on its books in
accordance with sound accounting principles or (ii) AFC agrees
for the reasons stated in paragraph 5 (a) above to delay repayment
of the principal amount of a loan or a portion thereof by more
than one year from the date it was originally due, provided that
any delayed repayments received by AFC, in respect of which the
Borrower has provided AFC additional amounts pursuant to the
foregoing paragraph (a), shall be paid to the Borrower promptly
on receipt.


﻿- 28 -
6.   AFC shall establish a separate revolving fund account on its
books to which shall be credited all amounts provided to AFC
pursuant to the foregoing paragraphs and all payments to AFC of
principal of loans made by AFC pursuant to the Project Agreement
and such portion of interest and other charges on such loans as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and AFC, provided that
the resulting spread to AFC shall not be less than 6%. AFC shall
relend funds standing to the credit of such account for the
purposes provided for in Parts A, B and C of the Project, as
provided in the Project Agreement, and shall ensure that loans to
smallholder farmers continue at least at the levels contemplated
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement in relation to loans to others.
AFC's obligations pursuant to this paragraph shall expire five
years after the last withdrawal is made from the Loan Account
provided for in the Loan Agreement.


