CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 692 KE
LOAN NUMBER 1390 T-KE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Third Agricultural Credit Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Dated April 15, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1977 among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter
called AFC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $20,000,000, on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
AFC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars
($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that AFC agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS by a subsidiary financing agreement between the
Borrower and AFC, a part of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement and a part of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to AFC on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, AFC has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AFC shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices, shall
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, AFC shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project in
accordance with the policies and procedures set out in the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) AFC shall establish an appraisal department
which shall appraise the technical and financial feasibility of
farm developments proposed to be financed by AFC in carrying
out Part B of the Project and the financial capacity of proposed
borrowers under such loans. This department shall be provided
with staff, facilities and resources adequate to perform this
function and shall gradually expand the scope of its activities
to encompass all medium- and long-term lending by AFC.


﻿- 5 -
(b) In order to assist AFC in establishing this appraisal
department and training its staff, AFC shall employ a senior
credit specialist whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank.
Section 2.03. AFC shall, to the maximum extent practicable,
take action to ensure that the borrowers of loans financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan utilize the proceeds of
such loans with due regard to economy and efficiency.
Section 2.04. (a) AFC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower for Part D of the Project against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
-to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by AFC to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, all,goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Loan made available to AFC by the Borrower shall be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. (a) AFC shall furnish to the Association and
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association or the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) AFC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Association's and the Bank's representatives to visit the farms
served by the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association and the Bank all such information
as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Parts A, B, C and D of Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Loan so made available to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
(c) AFC shall enable the Association's and the Bank's
representatives to examine all buildings, property and equipment
of AFC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. AFC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. Except as the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, AFC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) AFC shall, at the request of the
Association or the Bank, exchange views ,with the Association and
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit and the Loan.
(b) AFC shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by AFC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AFC
Section 3.01. AFC shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Association and the Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.02. (a) AFC shall at all times charge interest
rates on all its loans sufficient to enable it, out of its gross
income:
(i) to cover all its operating expenditures and charges
including taxes, if any, and interest payments;
(ii) to make adequate provision for bad or doubtful
loans; and
(iii) to accumulate adequate general reserves.
(b) AFC shall charge on all its agricultural lendings
(except land transfer program loans and loans made out of the
Subsistence Farmers Credit Fund) an interest rate of at least
11% per annum on seasonal credit and 10% per annum on longer term
credit, or such other rate or rates as the Association and the
Bank may approve.


﻿-9-
Section 3.03. AFC shall review its salary structure for
professional and technical staff with a view to improving its
ability to recruit and retain qualified professional and technical
staff and shall revise its salary structure by December 31,
1977, or such later date as  he Association and the Bank may
approve.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AFC shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. AFC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association and
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association and the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of AFC and the audit thereof as
the Association or the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, the Bank and AFC thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement have terminated in
accordance with their respective terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If either the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
or the Bank, as the case may be, shall promptly notify AFC of this
event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party 's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For AFC:
Agricultural Finance Corporation
P.O. Box 30367
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
KENAGBAN
Nairobi
Section 6.02. (a) So long as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan
Agreement and so long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to AFC: (i) the obligations of AFC to consult with and
to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association; and (ii) the obligations of the Bank to consult


﻿-14 -
with and to furnish information to AFC shall be sat sfied to the
extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association.
(b) Unless and until the Bank gives notice to the contrary
to AFC, all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
the granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to this
Agreement shall be deemed to be taken in the name and on behalf of
both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of AFC may be taken or executed by
its General Manager or such other person or persons as AFC shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.04. AFC shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
AFC, take any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be taken or executed by AFC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United State of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ J. P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE
Operating Policies and Procedures and Staffing
Part A of the Project
1.   Loans shall not be made to a smdllholder farmer unless the
farmer contributes at least 20% of the investment costs of the
program or items to be financed.
2.   Seasonal credit shall be required to be repaid within one
year and other loans shall be required to be repaid within five
years, including up to one year's grace. Seasonal credit shall not
exceed K.Sh.20,000 per farmer per year.
3.   Loans made under Part A of the Project shall be limited to
farmers (i) whose total land holding does not exceed 20 hectares
and (ii) who are not receiving loans out of the proceeds of the
loan and credit made by the Bank and the Association, respectively,
for the Integrated Agricultural Development Project pursuant to
agreements with the Borrower dated July 9, 1976.
Part B of the Project
1.   Loans shall not be made for a medium-scale farm unless the
farmer or farm owner contributes at least 25% of the investment
costs of the program or items to be financed.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Seasonal credit shall be required to be repaid within one
year and other loans shall be required to be repaid within five
years including up to one year 's grace.
3.   During the Project implementation period, loans made by AFC
(whether out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan or otherwise)
in respect of a single medium-scale farm shall not exceed
K.Sh.150,000 in the aggregate.
4.   Loans made under Part B of the Project shall be limited to
wheat or maize farm owners who: (i) have at least 20, but not
more than 400, hectares of arable land, (ii) manage and operate
their farms in accordance with sound agricultural practices and
(iii) cannot obtain alternative finance elsewhere on reasonable
terms.
Parts A and B of the Project
1.   To be eligible for a loan for a tractor, a farmer must
demonstrate that the tractor would be used for a minimum of 1,000
hours of productive agricultural work annually or for the
cultivation of at least 240 hectares. Such criteria would apply to
the farmer's own land, or to the land of other farmers (through
contract work) or a combination of both.
2.   Farmers receiving loans for crop development would be
required to:


﻿- 18 -
(i) use selected seeds or seedlings obtained from
a source acceptable to the MOA; and
(ii) introduce an effective weed and insect control
under the guidance of an extension officer.
3.   Every farmer to whom an agricultural loan for livestock
development is made would be required to follow a program of
animal husbandry and disease control satisfactory to the MOA.
4.   The MOA will be responsible for: preparation and technical
appraisal of farm plans and guidance and supervision of farmers
during the period of the agricultural loan, but AFC will make the
final decision as to whether or not a loan should be granted.
5.   Investments will be appraised in terms of incremental
returns resulting from the additional investments.
6.   AFC shall take such action as sound commercial and credit
practices require with respect to persistent defaulters on its
loans.
Part C of the Project
1.   Loans to retail input suppliers shall be made only to
input suppliers who: (i) are located in less developed areas
having farms served by AFC which are not served by other
suppliers, including cooperatives, (ii) conduct their business
in accordance with sound financial and retailing practices,
and (iii) owing to the location of their shops in remote areas,
are not able to obtain alternative finance on reasonable terms.


﻿- 19 -
2.   Loans to retail input suppliers shall bear interest at
the rate of not less than 10% per annum and shall be repayable
within three years.
3.   During the Project implementation period, loans made by
AFC (whether out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan or
otherwise) to any retail input supplier and outstanding at any one
time shall not exceed K.Sh. 50,000.
Part D of the Project
AFC shall hire for the Project and retain during the Project
implementation period: (i) at least 14 loan officers and 14
clerical staff not later than the end of the first anniversary of
the Effective Date, (ii) at least 10 additional loan officers and
10 additional clerical staff not later than the second such
anniversary, and (iii) at least 9 additional loan officers and
9 additional clerical staff not later than the third such
anniversary.


